K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
The British  Gas policy didnt cover a flush to remove sludge or scale.
Mrs H complained that in November  2017  British Gas agreed to do a flush  free of charge  
but delayed in getting it done during very cold weather. Instead, she says, British Gas told 
her in mid-February 2018 that her central  heating system needed a manifold flush. 
She complained that British Gas gave  incorrect advice to expose  the hatches  to the 
manifolds upstairs  and downstairs. She suffered damaged carpet upstairs and multiple areas 
of damaged laminate flooring downstairs. But British  Gas said there were no manifolds. It 
finally did a power  flush in early March  2018. Mrs Hs letter  of complaint was dated 23 April 
2018.
In a (first)  final response dated 10 May 2018, British Gas addressed  the complaint about  the 
delayed power  flush.  It didnt deal with the complaint  about floor damage. 
On 11 June 2018 Mrs H sent British Gas a further copy of her letter of 23 April 2018. British  
Gas sent a (second)  final response letter dated 29 August  2018.
The six-month deadline  in the first final response  letter expired in November  2018.  Mrs H 
didnt contact us until 6 February  2019. British Gas said we had no legal power to consider 
the complaint.
Our investigator issued  an opinion  that we could  consider Mrs Hs complaint about the 
flooring only. Mrs H and British Gas accepted that opinion.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint about the flooring should be upheld. 
He thought that:
He couldnt  say the advice to remove the flooring was incorrect or unnecessary at 
that point in time. 
British Gas did offer a joiner to make access under the floor with less inconvenience 
to Mrs H. But Mrs H declined this and had her husband remove the flooring. Any 
damage that followed from this isnt the responsibility of British Gas.
British Gas agreed with the investigators  opinion.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
British Gas correctly diagnosed  in November 2017 that a power flush  was required. 
After sending an estimate for about  £700.00, British Gas eventually agreed  to do the 
Ref: DRN83309182flush without additional cost. But it didnt do any flush  until after Mrs Hs independent 
engineer backed up that diagnosis on 21 February  2018. 
There was no damage done to the flooring by her husband lifting it. The damage 
arose due to the flooring being left up between mid-February and 2 March  2018, 
when the power flush was eventually done. The damage wouldve arisen  no matter 
who lifted or re-laid the flooring as it was caused  by the remaining planks being 
allowed to move around without the support of the lifted  planks. This led to the 
remaining planks becoming chipped by being unavoidably walked on while  those in 
the large hallway  remained  up.
The flooring  was lifted unnecessarily. Had British Gas carried  out the required power 
flush it diagnosed  in November 2017, the heating  and hot water system wouldve  
been fixed and the flooring wouldnt have become  damaged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that what British Gas said during visits in February 2018 caused Mrs H to get her 
husband to lift carpet  upstairs and laminate flooring downstairs.
But there isnt enough  evidence that a reasonable gas engineer wouldve known in February 
2018 that it wouldnt be necessary to remove those floor coverings. So I dont find that British  
Gas fell below a reasonable standard of skill and care in relation  to the floor coverings. 
Thats one reason why I dont find British  Gas responsible for damage to the flooring.
Also, Mrs Hs initial letter of complaint in April 2018  included the following:
My husband lifted the fitted carpet at the top of the stairs to expose the hatch  and 
then lifted the laminate  flooring at the bottom of the stairs as advised, only to find a 
stone floor. He had then to re-lay the laminate, which, due to the nature of laminate 
flooring, didnt work out very well and is now ruined. He had then to use his skill and 
judgement to work out where  the lower  manifold  hatch would actually  be. He then 
had to lift flooring  in another hallway, which is a continuation of the flooring in our 
living room .
That indicates that Mrs Hs husband lifted the laminate at the bottom of the stairs and 
promptly re-laid it, but it was damaged  before  he went on to lift flooring in another  hallway. 
Mrs H later said the flooring in that hallway remained lifted  for some weeks -   causing 
damage to surrounding areas of flooring. 
But I find that it was Mrs Hs husband  who caused  the initial damage to the laminate flooring 
at the bottom  of the stairs  and later in the other hallway.
For these reasons, I dont  find British  Gas responsible for damage to the flooring. I dont find 
it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to pay Mrs H compensation for the damaged  
flooring  or to do anything more in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN83309183my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response  to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8330918