K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr S took out the PPI when  he applied  for a charge  card in 1990 by filling out a leaflet from 
an M&S store. M&S sold the PPI to Mr S. But Allianz  Insurance Plc as the insurer  has 
accepted responsibility for the sale, and this complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed  it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S says the PPI was added without any discussion, or his consent.  But on the 
application form there is a separate section  for PPI and Mr S ticked  the box in that 
section to request  the policy. The sale happened a long time ago so I can understand 
that Mr S might not recall how he completed the form. But overall, I think  Allianz  
made Mr S aware the PPI was optional and he agreed to take it out.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt need to check  it was right for 
him. It was up to him to decide given the other ways he had to make his card 
repayments if he wasnt working.
But it did need to provide Mr S with enough  information for him to make an informed  
decision before  he bought  the policy. Its possible the information  Allianz  gave Mr S 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mr S chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have  wanted  this type of cover. He wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions or limitations  and the policy was competitively priced and apparently 
affordable. 
Mr S had savings worth  less than three  months  salary but the policy would have  
meant he could use these for other  living expenses whilst  not working. He also said 
he could have sold his car or released equity  from his house, but the PPI would have 
meant he didnt need  to take such extreme measures at what  would have already 
been a difficult  time.  So, overall, based on what I know  about  his circumstances and 
the terms of the PPI policy,  I dont think Mr S wouldve made a different decision if 
better information had been provided.  
It follows, I dont think  Mr S has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN82026502Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8202650