K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Aviva Insurance Limited declined his travel insurance claim.
background
Mr K travelled abroad  and stayed with family. On his return home  he claimed on his travel 
insurance for stolen  items. 
Mr K told Aviva, the travel  insurer, that he was robbed at gun point  by two assailants on a 
motorbike. He claimed for £400  cash and items including a phone,  camera,  two pairs  of 
sunglasses and clothing, with a total value of about  £2,000. Hed reported the theft to the 
police abroad  with the assistance of a member of his family  who acted as translator, and 
Mr K also speaks the local language.
Aviva had concerns  about inconsistencies  in what Mr K had told it and what the police  report  
said about how the theft happened and what was stolen. Aviva made enquiries through  its 
agent in the relevant country who spoke to the police  and visited the location of the theft.
Ultimately Aviva declined the claim. It said it couldnt validate the claims as:
the police report said Mr K had reported  a snatch theft  incident and there  was no 
reference to the theft happening at gun point 
the police report said the snatched bag only contained £400  and a phone,  not the 
other items Mr K claimed for
given the circumstances  Mr K described  he should have contacted the police helpline 
number (the equivalent of 999) after the incident
the police said Mr K had only made a report to be included in the police daily diary 
and didnt make an FIR report which allows the police to investigate the matter
the street Mr K said the incident  happened in is particularly busy  and occupied by 
many businesses  that have CCTV. Due to its location  the street also had a higher 
than normal police  presence. Aviva  queried  why assailants would have carried  out 
the crime at that location as there would have been a very high chance of them being 
seen and even  apprehended.
Mr K responded to Avivas concerns. In summary, he said:  
the police report was lacking information  as his interview was cut short  due to 
religious requirements and when they returned the police  officer  didnt ask for the 
information
his phone had been stolen so he couldnt call the police and he was in a foreign 
country so he didnt know the police contact number
he didnt know what an FIR report was but when his family asked the police for one 
the police  officer  refused  to give one. Mr K believes that was due to the police 
wanting to keep the crime statistics  low
if the area had CCTV why havent the police used that to catch  the assailants
he didnt see any police in the area. He had a gun pointed at him, was terrified and 
his first thought was about his safety,  not that he should report  to the police
the relevant  country is dangerous and has a high rate of robberies, particularly on 
foreign travellers
Aviva  is unsympathetic to his very frightening situation and unrealistic  about  what  the 
relevant country  is like. A busy  location wouldnt deter determined robbers.
Ref: DRN82301982Our investigator thought Aviva could fairly  decline the claim.
Mr K disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether Aviva fairly and reasonably declined Mr Ks claim, and I think it did. 
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Ive taken into account all the information Mr K has given us. I do understand that the 
relevant country  can be dangerous and I dont think some of the concerns  Aviva raised are 
sufficient for it to have  declined the claim. 
But I do think there are two inconsistences  that Aviva can reasonably be concerned about. 
First, the police report saying it was snatch robbery with no mention of the robbery 
happening at gun point. Second, the police report saying that Mr K reported  two items stolen 
when hes claimed  for considerably more and high value items.
Ive seen Mr Ks explanation of why not all the stolen items  werent  listed on the police report 
and his comments that the police werent helpful. However, Aviva can reasonably  take the 
police report as being an accurate record of what happened and what was taken. 
The policy says if a claim is in any way exaggerated Aviva wont pay any part of a claim. 
Given the contents of the police report Aviva can fairy and reasonably believe the claim was 
exaggerated and decline the claim under the policy terms.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8230198