K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  instalment loans Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as 
Pounds to Pocket)  gave to her. Shes said Pounds to Pocket were negligent in lending  
money to her without  carrying out proper financial checks. Miss B is also unhappy at being 
chased for payments on an outstanding loan and Pounds to Pocket recording late payments 
on her credit  file after it refused to accept repayments once she complained.
background
I attach my provisional decision of 17 December  2018, which forms part of this final decision 
and should be read in conjunction with it. In my provisional decision I explained why I was 
intending to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I invited both parties to provide  any further 
comments they may have  had before  I reached  a final decision.
Miss B responded to confirm that she agreed with my provisional  decision and that she had 
nothing further  to add. Pounds to Pocket also responded saying:
it completed enhanced checks before approving each of Miss Bs loans. So it didnt 
agree that any of them  were unaffordable and it was therefore reasonable for it to 
have provided  the top up on loan three and loan four;
it reiterated the arguments  it made  regarding the emails Miss B was sent chasing 
payment and the negative information  recorded  on her credit  file. It doesnt think  it 
has acted unfairly  as once  an amicable  resolution is reached on a complaint any 
interest or fees added to Miss Bs account  will be waived and her credit file will be 
amended. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Pounds to Pockets further  points regarding why it wasnt unfair  for it to 
have provided  the top up to loan three and loan four to Miss B. But having  considered  them, 
I dont think that Pounds to Pocket  has really engaged with the content of my provisional 
decision at all. 
My provisional decision set out in some detail why the checks carried  out before the top-up  
to loan three and loan four were  provided werent  sufficient. And it seems to me that rather  
than respond to the particular arguments  presented, Pounds  to Pocket  has simply provided 
a generic document in the hope  that itll persuade me to alter my conclusions.  Equally it 
hasnt explained  why its document is relevant here given the particular circumstances of 
Miss Bs case either. 
Id also like to make it clear that I cant see how Pounds to Pocket doing the same thing over 
and over again as suggested in the generic  document provided,  irrespective  of the 
circumstances, can always be proportionate.  
In my view, the use of the word  proportionate   in the regulations  and guidance - means 
there should always be a direct  relationship  between  the circumstances of a particular loan 
application and the degree  of information  a lender will need to gather in order to make  an 
Ref: DRN88974252informed decision.  After all, an assessment of affordability is a borrower rather  than lender 
focused test.
Equally the point I made in my provisional decision, and which I repeat here,  is that, I dont 
think it was reasonable  and proportionate for Pounds  to Pocket to have ignored the reality of 
what Miss Bs borrowing history was demonstrating in favour of its standard process. 
Consequently I remain of the view that it was unfair for Pounds  to Pocket  to provide the top-
up to loan three and loan four without  getting a better understanding of Miss Bs actual 
financial position.
Ive also thought about what  Pounds  to Pocket has said about telling our adjudicator to 
inform Miss B she should ignore  the emails she was sent chasing payment and that itd 
amend any adverse information on Miss Bs credit file after her complaint is resolved. But I 
think that this somewhat  misses the point. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect  Miss B to hold on to payments for 
Pounds to Pocket  until it decides  to accept them - simply because  it took a unilateral 
decision to vary the terms of Miss Bs contract  in order to limit any potential compensation 
award. And as I said in my provisional  decision  its plainly absurd for Pounds  to Pocket  to 
record adverse information on Miss Bs credit  file, in these circumstances, irrespective of its 
intention of amending this once Miss Bs complaint was resolved. 
I dont see how it is fair and reasonable for Miss B to have to suffer  the consequences of 
adverse information  on her credit file simply because shes  made a complaint, which  has 
been upheld, about Pounds to Pocket.  
Having thought about all of Pounds to Pockets further points,  Ive not been persuaded to 
change the conclusions reached in my provisional decision of 17 December 2018. So Im 
upholding Miss Bs complaint. Pounds to Pocket  should put things  right in the way that I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 17 December 2018,  Im 
upholding Miss Bs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC (trading  as Pounds to Pocket)  should 
put things right in the way set out in my provisional decision of 17 December 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88974253COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss B has complained  about instalment loans Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Pounds to Pocket)  
gave to her. Shes  said Pounds to Pocket  were  negligent in lending money to her without carrying out 
proper financial checks. Miss B is also unhappy at being chased for payments on an outstanding loan 
and Pounds  to Pocket recording late payments  on her credit  file after it refused  to accept  repayments 
once she complained.
background
Pounds to Pocket  provided  Miss B with four instalment loans between May 2017 and March 2018. 
Her borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan  one taken in May 2017 for an initial £800. This was topped up by a further £900 in July 
2017
Loan  two taken  in August 2017 for £900
Loan  three taken in October 2017 for an initial £1,000. This loan was topped up by a further 
£800 in January  2018  
Loan  four taken in March 2018 for £1,300
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what Miss B and Pounds to Pocket  said in relation to the complaint.  
She thought  that proportionate  checks wouldve stopped Pounds to Pocket  giving Miss B the top up to 
loan three  and loan four. But she also thought that proportionate  checks wouldnt have  shown up 
anything to stop Pounds to Pocket  giving  Miss B loans one and two and the initial amount for loan 
three. 
Our adjudicator also thought  that Pounds to Pocket unfairly refused  to accept  payments for loan four 
once she complained. She recommended  that Pounds to Pocket pay Miss B £300 for the trouble and 
upset its failure  to accept payments caused. 
Miss B didnt disagree with our adjudicators  view. But Pounds to Pocket did. So the case has been 
passed to an ombudsman. As Miss B hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators view, this final decision 
is only looking  at whether the top up to loan three and loan four shouldve been given  to Miss B and 
whether Pounds  to Pocket treated Miss B unfairly in relation to refusing  payments for loan four once 
she complained.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken  into account the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good  industry  practice at the time the loans were  offered.
the relevant guidance in place at the time of the loans
Pounds to Pocket  gave Miss B her loans while it was regulated by the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA). The relevant  regulatory rules are set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  
section of the FCA Handbook of rules and guidance.
Section 5.2.1(2) of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing  to give a consumer a 
loan of this type. And it says a firm had to consider the potential  for the commitments  under the 
regulated credit agreement to adversely impact  the customers  financial situation as well as the 
ability of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the regulated  credit 
agreement.
Ref: DRN88974254CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needs to bear in mind  when 
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
In practice all of this this means  that Pounds to Pocket  shouldve carried  out proportionate checks to 
make sure Miss B could  repay her loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the Miss Os income  and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending relationship,  I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. 
These would  include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion of their 
income 
the amount, or amounts,  due to be repaid are higher  
there is a larger number  and/or frequency of loans
the period of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
 
Ive kept all of this in mind when  thinking about whether Pounds to Pocket  did what it needed to 
before agreeing to provide  the top up to loan three and loan four. 
Pounds to Pocket  says it carried out a credit check when  Miss B approached  it for these  loans. It also 
says that all of Miss Bs loans were provided after it had implemented an affordability review,  which 
involved collecting and validating  income  and expense details from customers, in line with the FCA 
Handbook. 
It believes all of the loans it issued were affordable. It isnt clear whether Pounds  to Pocket believes 
this to be the case  because of the robustness of its checks, or because  it believes the loans were  
actually affordable irrespective of whether  it met its obligations. 
why I dont  think Pounds to Pockets checks for the top up to loan three and loan four were 
proportionate 
Ive carefully thought about  what  Pounds to Pocket has provided and what  it has said. But overall 
given what it learnt about Miss B during the course of her lending history,  I think  it wouldve  been 
proportionate for Pounds to Pocket  to carry out additional checks before giving Miss B the top up to 
loan three  and loan four.
Ref: DRN88974255To explain, Miss B asked Pounds to Pocket for the top up to loan three not too long after she was late 
in making a repayment.  In these circumstances, I think that Pounds to Pocket  needed  to do more than 
rely on its modelling and the checks it usually carries  out for all applications,  to verify that Miss B 
wasnt struggling to meet her existing  commitments, before providing a further loan.  
Given the circumstances, of Miss Bs previous late payment, I think that it would have been 
reasonable and proportionate  for Pounds to Pocket to have taken  additional  steps to verify the 
information being provided. It could have done this by asking for information such  as bank 
statements, copies of bills, or even proof of Miss Bs income.  
By doing this Pounds to Pocket  would  have been able to get a better  understanding of why Miss B 
was coming back for further  funds so soon after making  a late payment. As Pounds  to Pocket didnt 
do this, or take any other sort of similar additional steps, I dont  think I can reasonably say that 
Pounds to Pocket  checks  for the top up to loan three and loan four were proportionate.   
Overall having  thought  about  everything provided and taken it together, I think  that Pounds to Pocket 
shouldve found out more about Miss B before agreeing  to give her the top up to loan three and loan 
four.
what I think proportionate checks for the top up to loan three  and loan four would most likely have 
shown
As Ive explained, given  Miss Bs lending  history, I think Pounds to Pocket needed to find out more 
about her financial circumstances before  giving the top up to loan three and loan four to her. And I 
think that it needed to verify any information  provided, by means other than what  it had been doing 
previously, in order to be able to understand that Miss B wouldve been able to repay additional 
borrowing despite her recent late payment. 
Miss B has provided some information on her financial circumstances. I accept  this isnt necessarily 
what Pounds to Pocket wouldve  seen at the time. But as I havent been given  anything  else,  I think 
its reasonable  to rely on it as being indicative  of what Pounds to Pocket is most likely to have picked 
up on if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Ive carefully looked through everything Miss B has provided  and Ive also thought  about  everything 
both parties  have said. 
Having done so, I dont  think Miss B had the capacity to take on these  loans. A significant  proportion  
of Miss Bs monthly  income  in excess of half - was going towards  gambling.  So I think that Pounds  
to Pocket wouldve realised  that its ability to get its money back was wholly dependent on Miss Bs 
gambling success.
In my view,  if Pounds to Pocket had seen all of this  as it wouldve  done if it did the level of checks I 
think it wouldve been proportionate to do  it wouldve realised that it was unlikely to receive the 
payments Miss B was committing  to make  without  it adversely impacting on her financial  position. And 
it wouldve realised that Miss B wasnt  in a position to be able to take on any borrowing from the top 
up to loan three onwards.  
So Miss Bs borrowing history as well as her overall  financial circumstances, suggest  to me that 
proportionate checks wouldve shown Pounds to Pocket it shouldnt have given the top up to loan 
three and loans four to Miss B. As this is the case, Im intending to uphold        Miss Bs complaint 
about these loans and tell Pounds  to Pocket to put things right for her.  
Pounds to Pockets  refusal to accept the payments  due on loan four after Miss B complained
Ive also thought  about  what Miss B has said about being chased for payments on loan four and 
Pounds to Pocket  recording  late payments  on her credit file despite it refusing  to accept  the payments 
due, after she made this complaint.
Ref: DRN88974256Miss B was provided with loan four in March 2018. And she was due to repay  this loan in twelve 
instalments. From what I can see, Miss B made  her April, May and June payments. But as I 
understand it, Pounds to Pocket stopped accepting payments  from Miss B once it was notified shed 
referred her complaint to us at the end of June 2018. 
I can only presume that Pounds to Pocket did this to ensure it didnt collect payments  it might have to 
return  with interest  should Miss Bs complaint be upheld.  Although it didnt and still doesnt think  it 
did anything wrong when providing Miss B with any of her loans. That said,  Id be interested to hear 
Pounds to Pockets  reasons for its actions. 
In any event, I need  to think about the particular impact of Pounds to Pockets actions on Miss B. And 
Ive carefully done so. 
Miss B  through no fault of her own - has been left in a position where  shes been unable to make 
the payments due on her loan since July 2018. Ive also seen that Pounds  to Pocket  chased Miss B 
for these payments, despite  telling her she shouldnt  make them.  Miss B being  chased for payments 
she was told not to make  and which Pounds to Pocket refused  to accept, on its own, will have  been 
distressing. But what makes the position on this case plainly absurd  is that Miss Bs credit file shows 
Pounds to Pocket  has recorded, at least, three missed payments for loan four. This is likely to have 
had and be having a negative  impact on Miss Bs ability  to access  credit  especially from mainstream 
lenders. 
In my view,  Pounds to Pocket is treating Miss B unfairly. In this case, its actions,  at the very least  
appear, to have prevented  her from making payments simply because shes made a complaint.  The 
additional impact this is having on Miss Bs credit file is making whats already been a distressing 
period  bearing in mind my reasons for upholding  her initial complaint in the first place  even more  
distressing. As this is the case, Im intending to uphold this aspect  of Miss Bs complaint  and direct  
Pounds to Pocket  to put things right.  
putting things  right - what Im intending to tell Pounds to Pocket to do in relation to Miss  Bs 
entire complaint
To put things right for Miss B, Pounds to Pocket should:
refund all the interest and charges for the top up to loan three;  and
add interest  at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges  from the date they were 
paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove  any interest and charges applied to loan four from the outstanding  balance;
apply the total refund  due for the top up to loan three  to the outstanding  balance  on loan four; 
reduce the balance on loan four by the amount of the payments that would have been made  had 
Pounds to Pocket not unfairly refused  to accept payments  once Miss B complained.  This will 
result in the outstanding balance on loan four being cleared;    
remove  any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit  file as a result of the top up to loan 
three and loan four
I think  that Pounds to Pocket clearing  the outstanding balance on loan four in the way Ive set out 
above represents a fair and reasonable settlement in all the circumstances of       Miss Bs particular 
complaint. As this is the case, at this stage,  Im not intending to direct Pounds to Pocket to make any 
monetary payment to Miss B. 
Ref: DRN88974257my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im intending to uphold  Miss Bs complaint and say Casheuronet UK 
LLC (trading as Pounds  to Pocket) should settle the complaint  in the way set out above.
If Pounds to Pocket or Miss B have anything further to add before I issue my final decision, they 
should ensure anything they send reaches me by 31 December 2018.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8897425