K821x#15complaint
Mr D complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited because  it 
recorded an incident as a claim and withdrew  his no claims  bonus, causing  him to go without 
insurance (and, therefore, not be able to drive).
background
Mr D had a policy with Admiral and a black-box in his car which sent Admiral data. In 
August 2017 the black-box sent information to Admiral about a crash. The detail  noted  a 
front-end impact. Admiral  called Mr D and he said the black-box must  have  had an error. He 
said nothing had happened and there was no damage to his car. 
Admiral relied on the black-box information  and recorded the incident as a possible claim  
in case of any contact  from a third-party  claimant.  Mr Ds no claims bonus (NCB) was 
revoked. After six-months, with no contact  from a third-party, Admiral reinstated the NCB. 
That was around  the end of February 2018. However, Admiral later realised that the number 
of years for the NCB had needed to be input  manually when the NCB was reinstated,  which  
it hadnt done. It realised  this in July 2018,  after Mr C complained to us and our investigator  
became involved.  Admiral  wrote to Mr D confirming he had three-years NCB.
Mr Ds policy  with Admiral had been due to renew on 8 March 2018.  But because hed been  
unhappy about what was recorded following  the data upload from the black-box in August,  
as well as the increased  renewal price, he chose to look elsewhere  for cover.  The renewal 
price from Admiral was based  on a zero-years NCB. As were  the prices  for all other cover 
Mr D looked at. The quoted cost for new cover was nearly £5,000. Mr D felt unable to take 
out insurance, parked his car on his drive and began to use public transport and taxis. He 
believed the cost of cover was linked to the claim Admiral had recorded against him 
following the August  data upload. 
After Admiral amended  the number of years  of NCB and confirmed this to Mr D, he arranged 
new insurance cover. Our investigator  told Admiral that whilst it had resolved the cause of 
the problem for Mr D, it should  pay him compensation for loss of use of his vehicle  as well as 
for the distress and inconvenience its error had otherwise caused. He said, in total, it should 
pay £1,300.
Mr D accepted the findings.  Admiral  said it wasnt fair because it had acted in line with 
procedure  logging  a claim in case of third-party  interest and reinstating the NCB once a 
suitable time period had passed.  By that point though Mr D had said he wasnt  renewing and 
so thered been no need for it to re-price its renewal  offer. And Mr D had taken his cover  
elsewhere for reasons other than price. Therefore, Admiral said it didnt think  it should have 
to compensate Mr D for loss of use of his vehicle. But it said it would pay £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
As Admiral didnt agree the complaint  was passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83370042Whilst I accept  that Admiral reinstated the NCB  in February, it has admitted to this service 
and in a final response to Mr D, that it didnt, at that time, manually adjust the number of 
years logged against that bonus. From what Ive seen  that failure materially affected the 
price Mr D was offered for cover by both it and other providers. 
Whether Admiral routinely  sends clarification of reinstated NCBs or not, all it could have sent 
Mr D in February was information  of an NCB  of zero-years  because  that is what its system 
had recorded  until our intervention in July 2018.  Mr D couldnt  afford  to take out insurance 
without the benefit of the no claims years hed built up. I understand that being without a car 
was costly and inconvenient for Mr D. Its only fair that Admiral compensates him for that. 
Ive seen detail  about Mr Ds mileage prior to mid-February 2018 (before his cover with 
Admiral ended in March 2018) and that for the period after, until mid-August 2018  after hed 
found new cover. Despite  having averaged 1,000  miles  per month  before February 2018, he 
only did a total of 1,342 miles  in the six-months between mid-February  and mid-August. 
I accept this evidences  that he wasnt using his car during most of that six-month period 
The policy was due to renew on 8 March  2018 and Admiral confirmed to Mr D that he had 
three-years NCB (rather than zero-years) on 6 July 2018. Thats  120 days. Our general 
awards for loss of use are rated at £10 per day. 
I understand that at some  time during his months  without  annual cover, Mr D did, on four 
occasions, purchase daily cover to enable him to maintain his car. I think  thats reasonable 
and I dont think it materially changes  the fact that, for several months he generally didnt 
have use of his car. 
I accept that Mr D was generally frustrated,  upset and worried  during the period he had no 
insurance as well. 
Im satisfied that, in total, to make  up for all of this, Admiral should pay Mr D £1,300  
compensation. I believe this sum fairly  makes up for the loss of use Mr D suffered and the 
general distress and inconvenience he was caused, all as a result of Admirals  error.
I know Mr D was originally upset about  Admiral recording a claim against  him following the 
data upload in August  2017. In that respect I think Admiral was entitled to rely on the 
information it had received  from the black-box and Ive seen no evidence other than Mr Ds 
comments that suggests the box had malfunctioned. I also understand its general practice 
within the industry to record a claim where a third-party may be affected, until such time as 
this is shown not to be the case,  or sufficient time passes to make it unlikely. That is what 
Admiral did here, closing the matter after six-months,  when no third-party claim had been 
received. I have no issue with that. But that doesnt  change the fact Admiral did fail Mr D 
regarding the NCB  manual adjustment and Im satisfied that, as a result,  it fairly  and 
reasonably needs to pay £1,300 compensation to Mr D.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr D £1,300  
compensation for the loss of use he suffered as well as the general  inconvenience its error 
caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Ref: DRN83370043Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337004