K820x#14complaint
A representative, on behalf  of Mrs A, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc reassigned  an 
account number  and sort code from an old bank account she used to have, which  resulted  in 
pension payments from her late husband being  mistakenly paid to a third party. 
background
An adjudicator has already looked at this case.  Whilst he was very sympathetic to the 
situation of Mrs A, he wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. 
In light of Mrs A being unhappy with this outcome, the matter has now been referred to me to 
look at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying  that I have huge  sympathy  for Mrs A and the situation she has found 
herself in. But the decision  I need  to decide  is whether  Clydesdale  should be held liable in 
this matter. Im afraid I too have come  to the same  conclusion as the adjudicator, for broadly 
the same  reasons.
I accept that Clydesdale has a policy of recycling  account numbers and sort codes, once an 
account has been closed for over 4 years. It is not uncommon for banks  to do this. And Im 
satisfied that they did notify Mrs A correctly in January 2012  that the account was closing 
and she was sent a closing statement. I dont  think Clydesdale  had a duty to let Mrs A know 
they would  be reassigning  her account  to someone else,  over 4 years after it had closed.
Once Clydesdale became  aware the pension payments had been sent to the wrong account, 
I think they did follow the correct process for trying  to recover the funds. I appreciate Mrs A, 
and her representative, strongly  disagree with this point.  Unfortunately  Clydesdale has been 
unable to retrieve these  funds from the third party. 
Ive looked at the payment mandate form which  was completed around  January 2017. This 
form shows the account number, sort code and importantly Mrs A as the payee. 
What I need to decide is whether Clydesdale should have checked that the details of the 
payee on the mandate form matched the details  of the payee on the account  the payments 
were being  sent to. I understand  that Mrs A, and her representative, think Clydesdale failed 
to follow  the clear instructions on the mandate  form which was completed.  But Im afraid that 
based on everything I have seen, I cant  uphold this complaint. I dont think Clydesdale acted 
unreasonably by not checking that the payee details matched.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of Mrs A to accept or reject  my decision before 10 February 2020.
Ref: DRN80801852Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080185