K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complained that she was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mrs A bought the PPI policy when she took out a mortgage in September  1996.  BoS said 
that the PPI sale took place in a meeting  and that it advised Mrs A to take out the policy. Mrs 
A said she wasnt given  a choice about taking the PPI, and the cover wasnt  properly  
explained to her.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs A at a monthly cost 
of £12.45. The monthly benefit was £250.00.  If Mrs A had made a successful claim, the 
policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of its computer records of Mrs As mortgage account, along with copies 
of the mortgage  and PPI application  forms. 
Mrs A complained that she wasnt given a choice about taking  the PPI. As it was sold during 
a meeting, I cant know how the adviser  might have  explained the PPI. But I can see from 
the mortgage application form that Mrs A signed  to say that she wanted the cover  and 
there was separate box on the form in which she couldve signed to say that she didnt want  
it. And Mrs A also signed a separate application form for the PPI. 
Ive also kept in mind  that BoS said Mrs A was advised to take out the cover. So it may be 
that Mrs A remembers the recommendation that she should take the PPI as a requirement 
that she must have  it. This is a subtle  difference, and as the sale took place over 22 years 
ago, its possible Mrs A hasnt remembered exactly what was said at the time.
Overall, I dont  think I can fairly say that its most likely that Mrs A was told she had to take 
out the policy, which is what I must be able to do before I can uphold her complaint on this 
point. I simply  dont  have enough  evidence to say that this is what  happened.
From the evidence I have,  I think BoS did advise Mrs A to take out the policy, so it shouldve 
made sure it was suitable for Mrs A. I think it was.
As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things  not 
covered. But I cant see that Mrs A wouldve been  affected by any of these. Mrs A told us 
she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from her employer of six months  full pay followed by 
Ref: DRN84654062six months half pay, and that she had some savings  and couldve relied on her family to 
help out. But their circumstances couldve changed, so I dont  think  their help couldve been  
guaranteed. 
From all this I think Mrs A couldve found it difficult to meet  the mortgage payments once her 
sick pay reduced or had lost her job. And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months in the event  of a successful claim, and in addition  to Mrs As sick pay. So 
overall, I think the PPI couldve  provided  a useful benefit to protect what  was a major  
commitment.
I can see from the PPI application form that the monthly cost and benefit  amount were 
clearly shown. The monthly premium was £12.45,  and Ive no evidence to suggest  that cost 
was an issue. And as Ive said,  I think Mrs A could reasonably have wanted to protect  an 
important commitment that was secured on her home.
On balance, although I cant say for certain  that BoS clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mrs A would still have bought the policy. It couldve provided useful protection  
if Mrs A had been unable  to work.  
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs A paid for it. But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs A about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive concluded that the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Bank 
of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465406