K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Cumberland Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 1987  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £228.63 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £12.44 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a process  worker. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least six months full pay should  he be unable to work. Mr M was also entitled to redundancy 
pay. Mr M  has  said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
Cumberland has told us Mr M made a successful  claim on the policy.
Cumberland has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2000. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
Cumberland failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Cumberland  should 
have told Mr and Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Cumberland  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN80335552The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1987 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2000. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN80335553I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Cumberland at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Cumberland was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Cumberland gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and Cumberland, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
Ref: DRN80335554Cumberland had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  form from 1987.  I can see there  is a section 
about insurance. Against each type of insurance offered by Cumberland  are printed the 
words yes and no. I can see that Mr and Mrs M declined several  types of insurance such 
a life cover  and contents cover by circling the no option. But I can see that the yes option 
has been circled  next to the question Are details of personal accident , sickness and 
redundancy cover required?
I also note the policy  remained  in place for several years during which time Mr M made a 
successful claim  on the policy.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
in place and that it was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Cumberland  provide advice?
Both Cumberland and Mr and Mrs M agree that advice was provided during this sale. 
This means  Cumberland  had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Cumberland took to establish whether  the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs M. It seems Mr and Mrs M cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr M would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Cumberland  considered  whether  Mr M 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Cumberland did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Cumberland advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Cumberland did all it should have done to make sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ms ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Mr M was not working for an extended  period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay 
and redundancy  they say Mr M would have  been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M. 
Ref: DRN80335555-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And Mr M hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or redundancy, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances.
-The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  and the 
potential consequences  should Mr and Mrs M be unable to make  the repayments  on 
loans secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs M 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Cumberland was recommending to them and make an informed  decision  about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Cumberland gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded 
Cumberland did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a 
way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs 
M all of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision  about 
whether to follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN80335556poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Cumberland  ought to have done either. 
what effect did Cumberlands shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent 
did Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Cumberland didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs M. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs M suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy,  had Cumberland  done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Cumberland took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Cumberland  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs M would  have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Cumberland  advised  them  that there 
was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the 
event Mr M was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But Mr and Mrs M made that decision based on 
incomplete information, meaning  what they thought they were  getting is not exactly  what 
they got. 
Ref: DRN80335557As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Cumberland  told them the exact premium at the 
point Mr and Mrs M applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs M 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Cumberland at the time or reconsidered  
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Cumberland  made  clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs M would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs 
Ms expectations about what  the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if the policy  
holder was self-employed.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr M wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr M didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and in permanent employment,  not self-employed. So, I 
still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs M would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Ref: DRN80335558Cumberland may not have told Mr and Mrs M that any claim they made  would be limited to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for. 
But 24 months was a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly loan repayments would have been of benefit  to them  and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they  were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs M found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
Ref: DRN80335559taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Cumberland should  pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think Cumberland misrepresented the terms of the policy 
in how it described  the PPI. While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of Cumberlands  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Cumberland failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Cumberland  gave Mr and 
Mrs M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1987  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Cumberland  negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Cumberland  had been in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September  2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8033555