K820x#14complaint
Mr T and Mrs Ts complaint is about the amount of compensation Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) 
has offered to settle their complaint concerning a mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy taken out alongside their mortgage.  
background
Mr T and Mrs T took out a mortgage in August  1991  with BoS and at the same time took out 
a PPI policy associated  with the mortgage. The PPI was paid for by a monthly premium of 
£12 each month.
Mr T and Mrs T have  now complained  they were mis-sold the PPI. They say they tried to 
make a claim on the policy about  six months  after it commenced and the claim was turned 
down. Mr T and Mrs T want the costs  of the policy refunding  and also compensating for their 
mortgage not being paid when they made their claim.
BoS agreed to uphold  the complaint that the policy was mis-sold and agreed to pay 
compensation of £757.34 after tax to Mr T and Mrs T, split 50% to each  of them.  BoS says it 
has no information about a claim being made  and says its offer of compensation for the     
mis-sale is fair.
After the complaint was brought to this service BoS agreed that it hadnt dealt with the 
complaint as quickly and effectively  as it could have and has offered an additional £125.00  
for the trouble and upset  its delays  may have  caused.
Our adjudicator said what had been offered for the mis-sold PPI compensation and now for 
the trouble and upset caused is fair.
Mr T and Mrs T didnt  agree  and asked for an ombudsman  to look at their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and Mrs T took out their mortgage and a PPI policy in August 1991.  In 2018 they 
complained to BoS that the PPI had been  mis-sold.  BoS upheld their complaint and offered 
£757.34 in compensation.
When a business  has mis-sold a PPI policy we expect that business to put the consumer, as 
far as possible, in the position they wouldve been  in if they had never taken out the policy.  
This means  refunding all the costs  paid for the policy and also paying  some compensatory 
interest for any time the consumer was out of pocket.
In this complaint  BoS has worked out the total cost of the premiums  paid by Mr T and Mrs T 
to be £276.00,  on the basis the policy cost £12.00 each  month  and ran from August  1991 to 
June 1993, so the monthly premium was paid for 23 months. 
In addition BoS needs to pay some compensatory interest for the time Mr T and Mrs T were 
out of pocket for the premiums.  The calculation  provided by BoS shows this has been 
Ref: DRN84514452worked out from the date each premium was paid to the date BoS made its calculation. 
Which is what I would expect and tell it to do.
So the compensation for the mis-sold  policy seems  right and Mr T and Mrs T havent 
specifically disagreed with this amount. However they are unhappy as they say they made a 
claim on the policy around six months  after it was taken out, which wasnt successful. So 
they think that BoS should also pay the amount that would have been  covered by the claim 
to pay their mortgage if it had been  successful.
By agreeing the PPI was mis-sold BoS is putting  Mr T and Mrs T in the position  they 
wouldve have been if they hadnt taken out the PPI policy. And if that had been the case  
they would  not have  been able to make  a claim. 
Although BoS was the lender of the mortgage funds, it wasnt  the insurer  responsible  for the 
insurance policy. The PPI policy  and the mortgage loan are two different financial products. 
BoS may have recommended  or provided information about the PPI to Mr T and Mrs T, but it 
sold the policy on behalf of another business  which is responsible for the insurance policy,  
its administration and processing any claims.
Mr T and Mrs T have  been advised they may wish to take up with that insurance company 
any issues about the failed claim and have  been provided with contact  details. But Mr T and 
Mrs T say the fact their claim was rejected and their mortgage wasnt  paid by the insurance 
is part of their PPI claim against BoS.
Their complaint about the mis-sold PPI is not the same as a complaint about a claim made 
on an insurance policy. As Mr T and Mrs T have been informed, if they want  to make  a 
complaint about  their insurance claim being rejected they would need to complain to the 
insurer who underwrote and administered the insurance policy.
Its possible the reason  the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold has been upheld  was 
because Mr T and Mrs T were caught  by some of the restrictions  of the PPI policy which 
would have affected their rights to make a successful  claim. So in such circumstances they 
shouldnt have been sold the policy by BoS.  This means that BoS is responsible  for          
mis-selling the policy but not for the claim refused on the policy.
I think the compensation BoS has offered to settle  the complaint about  the PPI being        
mis-sold is fair and what I would expect a business to pay in such circumstances.
BoS has acknowledged that there was some  delay and it didnt deal with Mr T and Mrs Ts 
complaint as quickly and efficiently  as it couldve done. And it has offered £125.00  additional 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this may have caused.
I think this is a fair amount having considered all the circumstances relating to this particular 
case. 
Mr T and Mrs T have  commented that offering this extra compensation indicates that BoS 
are in the wrong. But this extra compensation is only related to the delays in dealing with 
their complaint about the mis-sold PPI made in January 2018. It is not compensation 
connected at all to their possible complaint against  another business related to their 
unsuccessful clam.  
Ref: DRN84514453In summary  I think that what  BoS has offered as compensation for the mis-sold PPI and also 
the additional £125.00 for the delays that occurred is fair. All the compensation offered 
should be split 50% to each of Mr T and Mrs T.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out I think that Bank of Scotland plc has offered fair compensation to 
settle this complaint of Mr T and Mrs T both for the mis-sold PPI and the additional 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by the delays in handling the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8451445