K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) paid outstanding sums to the 
party that owns the freehold of his flat, added the cost to his mortgage account  and 
increased the monthly payment to cover this amount. He wants a refund and his monthly 
mortgage payment  returned to its previous level. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left 
out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my decision is 
published.
The circumstances of this complaint, briefly,  are that Mr R has a mortgage with TMW  on the 
leasehold flat he lives in. In 2018, solicitors  acting for his freeholders began legal action for 
maintenance charges it said were outstanding and overdue. The case went  to a tribunal, and 
the decision was handed down in the freeholders favour: Mr R continued  with his dispute, 
and the freeholders initiated  court proceedings for forfeiture of the lease.
TMW was aware of what was going on, and shortly before the case  was heard in court, it 
received a letter from the freeholders solicitors saying that forfeiture action would be 
discharged if it received  a little over £51,000.  Of, this, just under £29,000 represented the 
disputed maintenance charges, with the remainder representing the freeholders legal costs  
in pursuing the case.
TMW paid the freeholders solicitor the sums  in full, and debited  Mr Rs mortgage  account. 
When the case went to court,  the judge ordered  it be dismissed with Mr R being granted  
relief from forfeiture. No order was made as to costs.
After debiting the mortgage account, TMW wrote to tell Mr R what it had done, and notified 
him of the new monthly payment, which had been  increased  to reflect  the increased balance  
on the mortgage account. 
Mr R complained; the main thrust of his argument is not so much with the debiting  of the 
maintenance charges but with the legal costs.  He doesnt believe TMW  had the right to do 
that when the court  hadnt made  a costs order. Our investigator didnt  think TMW  had done  
anything wrong; Mr R has asked that the complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Ref: DRN84793002Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This case is simpler  than its been made 
to look. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs mortgage. Having done so, Im 
satisfied these allow TMW to pay the maintenance charges  and legal costs.  But that 
shouldnt happen  when there  is just the threat of forfeiture; the likelihood of forfeiture needs  
to be more substantive. 
The issue  has to have  been to court or a relevant tribunal where  its been  found there has 
been a breach of the lease. The relevant  tribunal presently is the First-tier Tribunal 
(Property Chamber  Residential Property). Here, that had already happened; TMW  only 
paid the freeholder after it had begun further  legal proceeding  to forfeit  the lease because 
Mr R hadnt complied with the tribunal decision. 
Mr R says there wasnt a real threat of forfeiture because that only applies  if the claim value 
is greater than the property value. I know of no such provision; in my view,  the threat  of 
forfeiture was real and substantive, and TMW was entitled to protect its security in 
accordance with the terms  of the mortgage contract. 
Mr R also says he intended offering a payment  plan at the court hearing. I dont know  (and 
certainly cant speculate  on) whether such an offer, if made,  would have been accepted and 
incorporated into the court order. But in making  that argument, Mr R is conceding that the 
claim was legitimate and that he owed the money. 
The absence of a costs order from the court judgement  doesnt  detract  from TMWs  right to 
pay the legal  fees as well as the maintenance charges. Its not for me to second guess the 
courts opinion by saying there should have been a costs order, which is what  I would, in 
effect, be doing if I were  to tell TMW to remove the costs element from the mortgage. 
If Mr R believes  he shouldnt have had to pay the legal costs, its open to him to return  to the 
court and ask it to consider making a revised order to the effect  that the freeholders must 
cover their own legal  costs. If the court ruled  in his favour, he could ask that the freeholder  
be made to return the relevant sum to TMW for credit of the mortgage account.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any order or award against The Mortgage Works (UK) 
Plc. My final decision concludes this services  consideration  of this complaint, which means 
Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8479300