K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide Building Society (trading as Staffordshire Building Society) 
mis-sold them payment  protection insurance  (PPI).
background
I understand Mr and Mrs H were sold the PPI when they took out a mortgage in 1993. The 
policy covered Mrs H.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt know they had PPI and only discovered it when they contacted 
Nationwide last year. They say it was discussed in their meeting when they took out the 
mortgage but they didnt  agree  to it because they didnt need it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Hs complaint didnt  uphold  it. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know  this will 
disappoint them but I hope  the reasons Im about to give will help them  to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
Nationwide needed  to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs H they had a choice about PPI and get 
their agreement to it. The sale was a long time ago and Nationwide no longer has any of    
Mr and Mrs Hs PPI paperwork, which I dont  find surprising.  And Mr and Mrs Hs 
recollections from the time arent  detailed.
To uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  on this particular  point,  Id need to have enough 
information to make me think  it was likely Nationwide  didnt give them a choice about the PPI 
and didnt get their agreement  to it. And I dont  think the limited  information Ive got about 
this sale is enough  for that to be a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
I know Mr and Mrs H feel strongly about this. But what they say now about a sale that took 
place so many years  ago isnt enough, without any other evidence to back it up, to make  me 
think its likely Nationwide  applied PPI to their account without their agreement and without 
them knowing they had a choice about it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint but I dont  think there are. Nationwide says it didnt give Mr and Mrs H advice 
about the PPI and I havent seen anything to make me think  it gave them a tailored 
recommendation. Even so, Nationwide did need  to give Mr and Mrs H information  that was 
clear, fair and not misleading, so they could make  their own decision about whether they 
wanted it.
Ref: DRN86036112I dont know how Nationwide presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. Its possible  it didnt  give 
them all the clear  information it shouldve. But, from what Mr and Mrs H say about their 
circumstances at the time, and looking at the policy terms Ive been given, I dont think 
clearer information wouldve changed  anything.  I say this because:
It seems Mrs H was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions 
or limitations. So there was nothing to stop her claiming  the full policy benefit had she 
needed to.
The cost of the policy and the benefits it gave  make me think the PPI couldve been of 
use to Mrs H. Mr and Mrs H say Mrs H had very good work benefits and so didnt need 
PPI. 
But Mr and Mrs Hs borrowing was secured on their home, which  was at risk if they fell 
behind with their repayments.  For an initial cost of under £12 a month, the PPI wouldve 
helped with their monthly mortgage repayments  for up to 18 months for each successful 
accident, sickness or unemployment claim  Mrs H made. And, in the case  of accident 
and sickness, this wouldve been on top of Mrs Hs sick pay. So it seems to me it 
wouldve been sensible  for Mr and Mrs H to protect  their new borrowing with a PPI 
policy. 
And, ultimately, because  I dont  think its likely  Nationwide advised Mr and Mrs H to buy 
the PPI, it was for them  to decide if they wanted the cover knowing their circumstances 
at the time.
Id like to assure Mr and Mrs H Ive thought about all of their comments  but they dont 
change my conclusions.  Although  I know this will disappoint them,  I dont think Mr and Mrs H 
have lost out because of anything Nationwide mightve done  wrong,  so theres  nothing  it 
needs to do to put things  right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before1 May 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8603611