K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Lex Autolease Ltd (Suzuki) reported incorrect  information  to a credit  
reference agency. He wants compensation.
background
Mr E tells us that Suzuki reported incorrect  account information to credit reference agencies  
at the termination of his hire agreement in December 2018. As a result of this he says hes 
been refused  a top up loan by his existing lender. This loan was intended  to help finance 
his move to a different property. He states  that this refusal resulted in him being unable  to 
move to the property of his choice. And that hes not yet been able to locate another suitable 
property. He doesnt think Suzukis offer of £300 compensation is sufficient.
Suzuki told us that it accepted an error had been made in processing the termination of 
Mr Es finance agreement. As a result incorrect information had been  reported to credit 
reference agencies.  It said it had now taken steps to correct the error and have the 
information removed.  But it said it hadnt  received anything to show this error was the sole 
cause of a different lender  refusing to provide  Mr E with a loan. Suzuki  said it had made an 
offer of £200,  later increased  to £300,  to compensate for its mistake. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Suzukis offer of £300 was unfair. And he said he didnt agree the 
error was the sole reason Mr Es loan application  had been  refused. He said that Mr E had 
made another loan application in June 2019  - which had been refused. And he thought by 
this time the credit report  wouldve  been  updated. As a further loan application had been 
refused even though the erroneous  information had been removed he couldnt say it was the 
sole reason Mr Es first application had been declined.
Mr E didnt agree with this outcome. He said other than the incorrect Suzuki information 
showing four late payments, his credit file had been  in good order. As its not been  possible 
to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr E has had the misfortune to have incorrect information recorded  on his 
credit file. And I accept  that this can potentially have  adverse consequences  in terms of 
other applications for credit.
Theres no dispute that Suzuki  made  an error in recording late payments on Mr Es credit  
file. And so the main areas of disagreement  between the parties  in relation to this complaint 
are whether  this error was the cause of Mr Es top up loan application being refused. And 
what is an appropriate level of compensation.
Where information is incomplete or unclear - as some of it is here - I have to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened 
in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ref: DRN82943972Its important for me to explain that each business  has its own model  by which  it assesses 
applications for finance. And each model  will vary dependent upon the different criteria used 
including the risk factors which a business  is willing  to assume.  Most loan decisions are 
nowadays reached  through automated processes.  And as each business views its own 
model as commercially sensitive its not possible to know every single detail which goes to 
make up that decision. 
Im not suggesting that the errors in this case wouldve had other than a detrimental impact  
on Mr Es application. There would be little purpose  in a business  reviewing credit file 
information if it wasnt going to take this into account. But whether these errors made the 
difference between  Mr Es application  being  successful  or not is an altogether different 
matter. 
I note that another application for a loan made by Mr E was later refused at a time when the 
errors had been  removed.  Im not sure this information has much  bearing on the first 
application and I mention  it for completeness. And to illustrate  that loan applications may be 
refused even if a potential  borrower  has a good  credit profile. The point being that each 
separate loan application  is to be treated as a single  transaction.  And its not possible to say 
that one particular factor - to the exclusion of all others - has resulted in a loan being  
refused.
Its entirely possible that Mr E may have been  successful  with an application to a different 
lender. His credit file shows  that hes made  successful applications before. I think its also 
fair to point out that even  if Mr Es application  had been successful  theres no certainty  that 
hed have been able to complete the move to the property hed viewed and thought was 
suitable for his needs. Property transactions  can fail for a large  number of reasons. Having 
finance in place is merely  the start of the conveyancing process. So I cant  fairly hold Suzuki  
responsible for Mr E not being able to proceed with his intended move.
When considering  the issue  of compensation we distinguish  between awards in respect of 
actual financial loss which is consequential upon  an error by a business. And compensation 
to be awarded as a result  of distress and inconvenience which arises from that error. Ive not 
seen information  that shows Mr E suffered  any actual financial loss due to the error. So Ive 
to decide if the offer of £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint in 
respect of distress and inconvenience. Ive reached the conclusion that it is.
The purpose of compensation is not to punish  a business for an error. And as soon as the 
error was notified  Suzuki took prompt action  to have it put right.  It was unfortunate that it 
coincided with the time Mr E was looking to obtain  further credit. 
I appreciate the disappointment/embarrassment  that Mr E felt at having his application  
refused. But I think that £300 is fair and reasonable and a significant  acknowledgement of 
the error.  And I shant be asking Suzuki  to make any additional offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  the complaint. Lex Autolease Ltd has made an 
offer of £300 to resolve this complaint which I consider to be fair and reasonable.
I now require Lex Autolease Ltd to pay (if it hasnt done so already) £300  to Mr E for distress 
and inconvenience  for the error  it made in having  inaccurate information recorded on his 
credit file.
Ref: DRN82943973Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8294397