K821x#15Complaint
Mrs R, through her representatives, has complained  about  the advice she received from 
HSBC UK Bank Plc in relation to an investment bond she held. Her representatives  have 
also said HSBC failed  to identify her as a vulnerable customer and so didnt treat her 
appropriately.
Background
Mrs R is being represented  by her attorneys appointed under a Lasting Power of Attorney 
which was registered  with the Office  of the Public  Guardian in 2016.
Mrs R took out an investment bond following advice from HSBC in 2010. The bond  
contained a guarantee  of capital for the first five years. In 2015  Mrs Rs representatives 
raised a complaint with HSBC about how the bond  was sold.  While this isnt the focus of this 
decision it is necessary  for me to detail  HSBCs  findings in this regard to put into context the 
complaint this decision is focused on.
HSBC investigated  and upheld the 2015  complaint. It wasnt satisfied the advice to invest  
into the bond was suitable given Mrs Rs age, she was approaching  83 at the time, and lack 
of investment and general financial experience. It also felt that as the guarantee of capital 
tied Mrs Rs monies  up for five years  this again was unsuitable for someone in her position.
However, when HSBC calculated potential redress in line with the approach of this Service  it 
found that the unsuitable investment had outperformed a different, more  suitable product.
Because of this it didnt do anything to the bond  but recommended Mrs R seek  professional  
financial advice about the suitability of the bond for her future  needs  especially as it was 
approaching the end of the capital guarantee period.  HSBC said that if Mrs R wanted this it 
would provide this to her for free.
A few months later in the same year Mrs R approached HSBC to review the bond. HSBC  
has said Mrs R was concerned about losing the capital protection. She wanted a suitability 
review but the relationship manager  (incorrectly)  told her that she would be charged  for this. 
So, because of this Mrs R agreed  to proceed on a non-advised basis.
As mentioned, this information was incorrect, and this is the focus of this decision.
As a result of this meeting  in December 2015 Mrs R encashed the bond  and invested the 
monies into three separate, one year fixed interest cash savings accounts.
In 2019 Mrs Rs representatives were in the process of reviewing  Mrs Rs finances and 
raised a complaint against HSBC regarding  the meeting that took place  in 2015. Specifically, 
they highlighted the fact that at that time Mrs R was entitled to a free suitability review  of the 
bond and her investments, but this didnt take place  because  wrong  the information was 
given to her. They also questioned the encashment of the bond  and the suitability of the 
advice to invest into three separate cash accounts for one year each.
The representatives have  said that HSBC should have identified that Mrs R was a vulnerable  
customer at this time. She was undergoing tests for dementia and the representatives have 
said they met with Mrs Rs bank branch months before Mrs R had gone into branch  to 
explain the difficulties  of Mrs Rs situation. They also said they had explained to HSBC  that 
Mrs R was under undue influence from her companion and asked for HSBC to take note of 
Ref: DRN88196242this.
Theyve also complained  that by cashing in the bond  the monies are now being taken 
account of by the Local Authority in regards to Mrs Rs long-term  care fees and they feel this 
could have been avoided had HSBC  treated  and dealt  with Mrs R in the correct way and 
provided more suitable  advice. They are also of the view that regardless of what  HSBC say it 
did give advice.
HSBC investigated  the complaint and accepted it had made another  mistake. It agreed the 
full suitability review  should have been offered to Mrs R for free in 2015. In recognition  of this 
it offered £2,954  which was the cost of stand-alone advice for an investment bond with the 
value of the one Mrs R held at that time.
It did say however that if it had provided advice  in 2015 it is very likely  the advice would have 
been similar  to what Mrs R actually did - in other  words to invest in a low risk or no risk 
investment and move out of the bond  because it was unsuitable for her, despite it having 
performed well.
But it did say that instead of offering Mrs R three separate  saving accounts it could have 
offered one which would have given  her a slightly higher  rate of interest. Therefore, it also 
offered her £452.21  which was made  up of the interest Mrs R should have received taking 
account of her initial savings balance and her withdrawal of £14,999 before rolling over into 
the next year.
HSBC did however stress the point that it didnt give Mrs R advice  in 2015.
Mrs Rs representatives werent happy  with the offer from HSBC and so brought the 
complaint to this Service.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt  be upheld.  
While he recognised the mistakes HSBC  made  along with the unsuitable advice  from 2010  
he was satisfied with what it had done to resolve these matters. He was also satisfied that 
even if HSBC had given Mrs R advice in 2015 it would have advised her to take a similar 
product to the fixed rate savings account  as it wouldnt  have advised anyone of Mrs Rs age 
to put their money  at risk. He also didnt think HSBC was in a position to advise on means 
testing.
I issued a provisional decision in March 2020  where  I set out why I thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  And extract is below and forms part of this decision:
Mrs Rs representatives have raised numerous  points about what happened to Mrs R in 
2015 and what  perceive  to be the poor advice she received. I hope they appreciate  that 
while I have taken account of all of them have addressed  only the most salient points in this 
decision.
Given the circumstance of Mrs R now and in 2015 there are a number  of unknowns in this 
complaint. This obviously makes it difficult to know exactly  what  happened or what  Mrs R 
was actually looking for in 2015. So in situations  like this I need to make  my findings based 
on what I think is more likely to have happened.
One established fact is that the bond  that was sold to Mrs R in 2010 was deemed to be 
unsuitable by HSBC in 2015. And while this doesnt form part of this complaint this fact is 
Ref: DRN88196243worth bearing in mind.
The other established fact is that the relationship manager who met with Mrs R in 2015 gave 
her the wrong  information regarding the cost of a full financial and suitability review.
From all the information I have reviewed I think that if the right information had been given  to 
Mrs R in 2015 she would have had a full review of her bond and would have received  advice 
on what investment would have been right for her next, if any. However, having said that
I dont think that having  a full advised  review of her investment would  necessarily have 
resulted in Mrs R being given  completely  different advice. The reason being is that I do 
agree with HSBCs view that someone  of Mrs Rs age shouldnt have put their monies at 
risk. 
So, I dont think it would  have been suitable  for her to keep the bond going given it was soon  
to lose its capital protection. I dont know exactly what Mrs R would have done and I am not 
an adviser and so cant review the entire  market  to see what was available  at that time.  But
I think its likely that Mrs R would have, or at least should have, been advised  to place her 
monies in a no risk environment where she most likely would have kept them to date.
I am also of the view that HSBC didnt identify Mrs R as being vulnerable as it should have 
done. And perhaps had the suitability  review taken place as it should have done  this would 
have been identified because from the information Mrs Rs representatives  have provided  
about her health  at that time I think her vulnerability would have been obvious.  They  have 
said Mrs R was undergoing tests in 2015  for dementia as she was having  problems  with her 
memory. They have  described that in cognitive tests she was unable  to remember  simple 
facts such as her county of residence or who the prime minister was. And while  I know 
HSBC has no record of being told about  Mrs Rs situation some  months  before I am 
persuaded by the testimony of the representatives  and I see no reason why they would 
fabricate such details.
Further to this, it is recognised that dementia doesnt just suddenly  appear in someone.  
There is usually a slow build up in patients over some time so its not unreasonable  that, in 
2015, a year before the full medical diagnosis occurred, that Mrs R was showing signs  of this
disease and indeed struggling with it. So I am currently of the view that HSBCs  service to 
Mrs R at this time fell short of the levels I would expect. I therefore think  HSBC needs to 
recognise this with a payment of £750.
I know the representatives have a particular  issue about Mrs Rs monies  now forming part of 
the means testing  by the Local Authority.  But I dont think it is reasonable to expect HSBC  to 
have advised  on this element even if an advised review had taken place. Not being a 
specialist in this area it wasnt in a position to do this and any advice  concerning 
surrendering or retaining investment products to reduce the value of assets  could have been 
viewed as unethical.
In summary,  therefore, I think  a few things went wrong in HSBCs dealings with Mrs R in 
2015. The offers it has made in relation to giving the wrong information to Mrs R in 2015  
regarding her suitability  review and for opening three savers accounts rather  than just one 
should still be honoured by HSBC. But I also think it needs to do more.
As I have already  said it should pay Mrs R £750  for not treating her in the most appropriate 
way regarding her vulnerability.
Ref: DRN88196244In relation to the investment advice, while I think it was right for Mrs R to invest  in something  
with no risk, I think this should have  been for a longer time with no limits on her accessing  
her monies had she needed.
So in light of this HSBC must carry out the calculation  as set out below. It is important to 
point out that given  Mrs R took out an investment which  contained no risk in 2015 and my 
recommendation is that the benchmark  used in the calculation for potential  redress is largely 
the same  there may be no loss calculated. However,  HSBC  must still carry out the 
calculation and bring the investment to date so that all parties can be sure this is the case 
and that Mrs R hasnt  been disadvantaged.
If there is no loss identified, then HSBC  must  only pay the £750 I have mentioned above 
(along with what it had previously offered).
HSBC didnt agree with my provisional findings and provided the following comments:
Since receiving the provisional decision it has spoken to its member of staff who 
assisted Mrs R in raising  the original  complaint  and with setting  up the one year 
bonds. Her account of the meetings with Mrs R disputes the assertions made by the 
representative that Mrs R was vulnerable. So HSBC reiterated its position  that it 
wasnt advised of any vulnerability.
Mrs R didnt receive the full review  offered  as part of its resolution to the complaint in 
2015 but it has been acknowledged by this Service that the outcome would not have  
been any different  as it would have been  unsuitable for Mrs R to place the proceeds 
from the bond into anything other than a deposit environment,  as she did. The key 
point is that had a full review been carried out this advice  would not have attracted 
a fee even if it hadnt already offered a free review.
Given an offer has already been  made to refund this cost £2,957.27 and it wasnt  
made aware of any vulnerability it doesnt think it is fair for the £750  in distress and 
inconvenience also be awarded.
The redress methodology recommended is based on fixed rate bonds  so isnt any 
different to what actually happened to Mrs Rs money. For a position truly without any 
access limitations Mrs R would have  needed  to leave her money in a bank account  
paying little or no interest.
Based  on Bs initial calculations the financial redress due based on the provisional  
decision would be substantially less that what has already been offered in terms of 
the advice fee even with the D & I added.
Mrs Rs representatives also didnt entirely  agree with my provisional findings and responded 
with the following:
If the calculations  based on the provisional decision are correct  then the entire 
complaint process has been  difficult,  upsetting and a tortuously slow process and a 
waste of time.
They are adamant  HSBC tried to cover  up its poor advice.
While  the bond cant be reinstated it would be easy to quantify Mrs Rs income loss 
for the period between the closure of the bonds and the settlement date. Mrs R is 
worse off by around £20,000 if this method is used in addition to her house now 
having to be sold to pay for her care.
The provisional decision should be reconsidered  and used as an opportunity to send 
a message to large financial institutions.
Ref: DRN88196245My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I am not persuaded to 
reach a different outcome  to my provisional  findings.
I appreciate how strongly Mrs Rs representatives feel about this matter  but its important 
that they bear in mind that I must  make  my final decision from an objective stand point and 
within the remit of this Service. It is also important to note that I am only focused on this 
specific complaint. It isnt for me to punish a business or make a decision  as a wider  
statement to financial institution.  I can only focus  on the individual  circumstances of this 
complaint and it isnt for me to comment any wider.
While I know the representatives want more in redress and compensation I must follow the 
approach this service  has to complaints  of this nature. Therefore, the redress methodology 
of this Service must also be followed and sometimes while  the advice may have been 
unsuitable and therefore the complaint  is upheld,  the investor hasnt actually suffered any 
financial detriment. It would be wrong for me to do anything different in this case.
I have upheld the complaint for the reasons already stated in my provisional  findings.  These  
havent changed in light of any further  comments made. Therefore, the method of redress 
remains the same.
I appreciate what HSBC has said about its offer being more than the proposed  method of 
redress in my provisional findings. This may well be the case. However,  as I stated in my 
provisional findings it is only right for me to explain why I think  the complaint should be 
upheld and accordingly the proposed method of redress followed. But as I also already 
stated in those  findings if HSBC carries out the correct calculations in line with this decision 
and the result is that the total redress is in actual fact less than HSBC has previously offered 
then it is up to Mrs Rs representatives to accept that offer or not. This way I can be sure the 
matter has been  looked into correctly and independently and our normal  method of redress  
has been proposed. I cant however decide that Mrs R should be disadvantaged by this 
Services approach  especially  when the offer from HSBC is still available.
This leaves  the £750 I have awarded for HSBC  falling  short  for not taking account of Mrs Rs 
mental state.  I know Mrs R didnt pay for any service as HSBC  didnt provide advice and if 
the advice had been no risk accounts  no fee would have been  payable, so this isnt 
compensation for fees she has paid. Im also aware that HSBC has provided  an account by 
the adviser who dealt  with Mrs R. But I have to say I am not satisfied this shed any further  
light on this matter and I dont think this is enough for me to conclude Mrs R wasnt  showing  
signs of problems back then. The account isnt very detailed, and the adviser  even says she 
cant remember other appointments  she had with Mrs R and she didnt  make  any further 
notes after that appointment she can recall. I also think its very unlikely the accounts  from 
the representatives of Mrs R are untrue. So, I remain of the view that this should  have  been  
picked up by HSBC  at the time.  I therefore  remain of the view that £750 should  also be paid 
in relation to this point and for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
What HSBC UK Bank  Plc must to do put things right 
Fair compensation
In assessing  what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should  be to put 
Ref: DRN88196246Mrs R as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mrs R would  have  invested differently.  It is not possible to say precisely  what  she 
would have done,  but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs R's circumstances  and objectives when  she invested.
What should HSBC do?
To compensate Mrs R fairly, HSBC must:
Compare the performance of Mrs R's investments with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should  be carried out for each investment. HSBC  should also 
pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mrs R £750 for failing to appropriately  identify  Mrs R as a vulnerable customer 
and put the necessary checks in place.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
One-year 
fixed rate 
savers a/c #1maturedaverage rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
One-year 
fixed rate 
savers a/c #2maturedaverage rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
One-year 
fixed rate 
savers a/c #3maturedaverage rate 
from fixed  rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
For each investment:
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN88196247To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  HSBC should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs R wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mrs R's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mrs R would have invested  only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  calculate the redress as set out above. If the result of this 
calculation is that the amount payable based  on this redress methodology is less than the 
amount it has already  offered  by way of payment for advisers fees and lost interest  then 
Mrs R has the option  of accepting the original offer made by HSBC  UK Bank  Plc instead. If 
she wants to do this she must contact HSBC  UK Bank Plc directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2021.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8819624