K821x#15complaint
Mrs L says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs L was sold two PPI policies with store cards in 2000 and 2003.  
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ls complaint didnt think  FICL explained the terms and 
conditions of the PPI policies  clearly  to Mrs L. And he didnt think  Mrs L wouldve bought the 
policies if it had. FICL disagrees, so Mrs Ls complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, on balance, Ive decided  to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs L enough clear  information about  the PPI so she could make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And also from what Ive seen, on balance, I think  if FICL had given Mrs L the clear  
information she needed she wouldnt have bought the policies.
Its likely  the policies Mrs L was sold wouldnt have covered her for any medical  conditions  
she had when she bought them. Mrs L has told us and FICL she had a medical condition 
when she was sold the first policy. By the time she was sold the second policy,  she says 
shed developed another medical condition. Mrs L says shes  never  had time off work 
because of the conditions.
Based on what Mrs L has said, FICL  says it doesnt think its likely  her medical conditions 
wouldve caused Mrs L to take significant  time of work. And so it doesnt  believe it wouldve 
affected her ability  to make a claim on the policies.
Ive looked at the notes FICL  has sent us about  its investigation into Mrs Ls complaint. It 
seems FICL initially decided it needed to ask Mrs L for more  information about her first 
condition. This was because, as it says in the notes, the condition can get worse over time 
and can fluctuate  in different circumstances. Subsequently, the notes say Mrs L stated 
neither of her conditions  affected her ability to work  and both were under control. But FICL 
hasnt given us the information it got from Mrs L that it relied  on to reach its subsequent 
decision to defend the complaint.
As Ive said,  I think its likely the PPI excluded  cover for Mrs Ls known medical  conditions.  
And although Mrs L says she hasnt  had any time off work because  of them, I dont think  she 
couldve known that when she bought the policies. Mrs L has told us about her conditions  
from the beginning and seems to have been  consistent in having done  so with FICL as well. 
So, on the basis of this and the information Ive seen  (which  in terms of FICLs own 
Ref: DRN87426442investigation has been quite limited), I think its likely  the exclusion in the policies wouldve 
mattered to Mrs L when  she bought  the PPI. 
And there was no information about this exclusion on the application form Mrs L signed  
when she was sold the first PPI policy. I understand Mrs L was sold the second  policy  over 
the phone. But theres  no call recording for me to listen  to and FICL hasnt been able to give 
me a call script to show what  the sales person wouldve been instructed to tell Mrs L over the 
phone. So I havent seen  anything to show FICL  did enough to make  this exclusion clear  to 
Mrs L with either policy.
If it had done, and based on the information Ive got, I think its unlikely Mrs L wouldve gone  
ahead with the policies if shed known  she wasnt  likely to have been covered if shed 
needed time off work because of her known medical conditions.  
I think Mrs L has lost out because of what FICL has done wrong and so it should  put things 
right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs L in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs L wouldve owed when she closed her store  card 
accounts if the policies hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs L owed when she closed her 
accounts and what she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policies, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs L wouldve owed 
when she closed her accounts  from when she closed them until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs L would have owed each month without PPI  Mrs L 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balances, FICL should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mrs L paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mrs L 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  cards. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs L what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs L a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN87426443my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct  Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742644