K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Rock  Insurance  Services Limited automatically  renewed his annual  
travel insurance policy without warning, and has refused to give him a full refund of the 
premium.
For ease Ill refer to Mr K throughout, although I appreciate Mr Ks relative  took out the policy 
and brought the complaint  to us on Mr Ks behalf.  
My references to Rock  include its agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I said I wasnt likely to uphold  this complaint, and this is what  I said:
In March 2017 Mr K used a price  comparison  website to find an annual travel insurance  
policy. The policy  he selected  was arranged  by Rock, which  is an insurance intermediary. 
In March 2018 Rock automatically  renewed the policy for another  year and took the premium  
of £81 from Mr Ks bank account. In July 2018 Mr K contacted Rock saying hed only then 
realised that the policy had renewed. Mr K wanted the full premium back. 
Rock said that it had explained  the automatic renewal process both in 2017 and before the 
policy renewed in 2018. It made a pro-rata refund of the policy premium of £51.93  and 
waived its usual £20 cancellation fee as a gesture of goodwill. Rock  wouldnt refund the 
balance of the premium.  Mr K came to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Rock had done  enough  to warn Mr K that the policy would 
automatically renew. In particular, he said the information sent 21 days before renewal 
explained only on page three  that the policy would  auto renew.  Our adjudicator 
recommended that Rock  should refund the balance  of the premium.  Rock didnt agree. So 
the complaints come  to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done Im not likely to uphold it. Ill 
explain my reasons.
I understand that Mr K didnt realise the travel  policy would automatically renew. But I think  
that Rock took reasonable steps  to bring  this to his attention. So I dont think  its fair for me 
to require Rock  to refund the full policy premium outside the cooling off period.  
The policy summary  did draw Mr Ks attention to the automatic renewal of the policy,  even if 
he didnt read it at the time. It was listed  on page 3 of the contents  index with the automatic 
renewal information  appearing prominently on page 6. Im satisfied the online purchase 
process did include links both to the policy summary and policy terms and conditions.  The 
information was also in the full policy terms and conditions. I think  it was clear  enough.  
Rock has sent us evidence that it did send the pre-renewal email to Mr Ks correct email  
address 21 days before  the policy renewed  in 2018.  The email said that Rock  would take the 
Ref: DRN82628952policy premium seven  days  before the renewal date. Ive thought about the fact the 
information about automatic renewal was on page  three of the three page email.  But in my 
opinion Rocks email message gave clear  information  that the policy  would automatically  
renew, and that Mr K could opt out of the renewal by following the website link on the email. 
As I understand it Mr K didnt read the pre-renewal  email at all. So even if the auto renewal 
and opting out information was on page  one of the email this wouldnt have made any 
difference. I know Mr K says he didnt read it because  he didnt receive the email  but I dont  
think this was Rocks responsibility.  I say this because I accept that Rock  has shown the 
email was properly  sent to Mr Ks correct email  address. 
After the policy  renewed Rock told Mr K about his right to cancel if he changed his mind  or 
no longer needed the policy. Rock drew his attention  to the policy summary which explained 
the 14 day cooling off period.  If hed not claimed  then a full refund of the policy premium 
would be made  provided the policy holder hadnt claimed under the policy. The policy  also 
explained that if the policy holder cancelled the policy outside the 14 day cooling off period 
then the policy premium would be refunded on a pro-rata basis. 
I think Rock responded  fairly to Mr Ks complaint  by waiving  the £20 cancellation fee when 
he told it hed not realised the policy  had renewed, and by paying him a pro-rata refund. But 
I dont think it has to refund the remaining portion of the policy premium because  I consider it 
did enough to warn him about the automatic  renewal  of the policy. I appreciate  this will come  
as a disappointment  to Mr K.
Rock responded  to say it had no further information  to add. 
Mr K didnt respond to my provisional  decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any further information  or comments to consider. As such  I dont  see any 
reason to change  my provisional findings, which I confirm here. I dont uphold this complaint  
for the reasons set out in full in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision and here I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8262895