K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the advice she was given in 2014 by LEBC  (a representative of 
TenetConnect Services Limited) to invest with a Discretionary  Fund  Manager  (DFM). She 
says that the DFM manager  was not managing her DFM  correctly  as LEBC had not informed 
it correctly of her investment objectives  and requirements.  Mrs  S also says that LEBC  were  
not providing adequate  monitoring of the DFM. 
background
Mrs S is represented in bringing her complaint and her representative has submitted a 
detailed report and complaint confirming the concerns. In brief, the complaint is that: 
There was a failure to communicate adequately  with the DFM:
To highlight the difference between short term and longer term investment once share 
options had been  redeemed in full
To ensure  the DFM managed the portfolio in line with the agreed  risk profile 
The need to manage CGT liabilities  but not at the expense of holding assets to avoid tax
And also a:
Failure to put forward other suitable  alternatives  to Mrs S to the DFM
Failure to put forward other DFM  options
Failure to arrange a meeting between Mrs S and the DFM/other DFMs before the 
application was agreed 
Failure to ensure the DFM was aware that share  options  would  be used for income in 
the first 18 to 24 months
Failure to update Mrs S adequately  as to performance after the DFM was set up
Failure to use a benchmark and monitor the DFM adequately
Failure to inform  the DFM on an ongoing basis of the changing needs  of Mrs S - 
regarding capital  growth initially and then income  
In addition it is submitted  that misleading information about costs  between the DFM  and the 
original (transferred) holdings was given to Mrs S. 
It is said that this amounted to or led to various  FCA Principle and Rule breaches.
Tenet did not uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.  It said that the recommendation for the DFM was 
suitable and aligned with her needs  and circumstances. It said those needs had been 
correctly communicated  to the DFM manager and the DFM had been managed in line with 
her agreed objectives. It said that she had been  provided with regular updates and a contact 
point with the DFM  if discussions were required.  
Ref: DRN89400532The complaint was referred  to this service and it was considered by an investigator. He did 
not uphold the complaint. He thought the DFM  was not unsuitable and the investment was 
within Mrs Ss risk rating.  He said there  was justification for the transfer of investments to the 
DFM and the increased cost was disclosed.  
Mrs Ss representative did not agree. He repeated many of the complaint points including that 
the investment  options given to Mrs S were very limited, her risk profile was not assessed 
correctly, the information  passed  to the DFM  by LEBC was inadequate,  there was inadequate  
monitoring of the DFM  by LEBC  and LEBC did not arrange any meetings between  Mrs S and 
the DFM as agreed. He asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes the comprehensive report  
from Mrs Ss representative. I will however only discuss  what is material  to the outcome of 
this complaint in this decision, I may not refer to every complaint  point  or matter that has 
been raised.   
There is an Investment Report for Mrs S dated  2 May 2014 that was completed by LEBC. I 
have read that report in full but, in brief, it set out:
Mrs S circumstances,  including that she was 58, and had received about £150,000 in 
income (although this was to reduce substantially in the next few years as share 
options were taken up). It was recorded that Mrs S required another  £20,000  to £25,000 
(which I assume to be annual income) from her investments  in 18 to 24 months time. 
Mrs S had about £1.1m in assets  of which just over half was risk-based (ISAs, shares, 
unit trusts).  
Mrs S did not have  the time or inclination to manage her own funds and she had 
recently made  a mistake that led to a £33,000  CGT liability.  She had not been using her 
annual CGT  allowance and would like this managed by someone else going forward. It 
was recorded  that she would like her funds  more actively  and pro-actively managed,  
closely monitored  and was happy to pay additional costs for this. She wanted to invest  
for growth  with the option  for an income in 2 years time and that outsourcing  for a 
bespoke service  was preferable. 
Her risk profile  was High Medium Risk,  described as: You  accept the risk of a 
moderate loss to your money in return for the potential  for growth above inflation.  A 
suitable portfolio is likely to include a mixture  of higher  risk investments such as shares 
and lower risk investments such as gilts and bonds. There was a discussion about what 
this meant in terms of potential loss. 
Mrs S was said to have  a reasonable knowledge  of investments having held collective 
investments and had personal knowledge  of the associated  volatility.  
A recommendation was made to transfer  Mrs Ss ISA and OEICs (which I understand to 
be valued around £600,000 at the time) to a DFM as well as utilise  her ISA allowance. It 
was said that the DFM will attempt  to mitigate  any CGT.  As part of that the funds  were  
to be transferred in specie. 
Ref: DRN89400533This was so that the investment could be pro-actively assessed to manage risk, make 
sure the investment  remained  aligned with her objectives and to maximise capital 
growth. The DFM would choose  from various  OEICS and unit trusts   there would be no 
in-house investments.  
LEBC would continue  to provide financial advice to Mrs S, the DFM  would only be 
responsible for choosing investments  within the DFM  fund. It said that research had 
been undertaken  regrading which DFM  to choose. Mrs S could have annual face to face 
meetings with her investment manager  if required. 
The charges would be just under 2% per year  which was about 0.7% higher than she 
was currently  incurring  in charges.  There were  no transfer  or exit charges levied by her 
current provider.
An attitude to risk questionnaire was completed  in 2014 which noted that Mrs S had a 
medium term investment horizon (5 to 10 years) and could accept some risk of loss with 
regard to her investment.  The balance of the questions indicate that Mrs S could, and 
wished to, take some risk with her investment. The overall risk rating was High Medium 
Risk. The investment objectives  were recorded  as investing for 5 to 10 years  for growth with 
the flexibility to take an income  if required in 2 years  time. 
I have also seen a DFM  Client Agreement and Profile form which records Mrs Ss 
circumstances for the benefit of the DFM.  This included detail such  as income, expenditure 
and Mrs Ss investment  experience. I note that written on the form is:
Client has share options ..74K this yr & further options to exercise in 2015/16
The investment period  was recoded  as 6 to 10 years and there were notes that:
current expenditure  is not met by my occupational pension income  and under Specific 
Purpose it is recorded:
To achieve income and capital  growth  in a tax efficient way. To use established  expertise to 
achieve a best in class outcome.
The objective for the fund was recorded  as balanced between  capital growth  and income  
and the risk profile was Medium. Valuations  were  to be provided  6 monthly. 
The DFM  also issued an Investment Proposal which set out how the DFM understood 
Mrs Ss objectives and how it would manage  the fund on Mrs Ss behalf. This recorded that 
the investment  objective was growth, liquidity and flexibility were  required, the risk tolerance 
was medium/higher  and that capital gains were to be managed over the coming years.  It 
recorded what amount  would  be invested  and that Mrs S would be considering taking an 
income in approximately two years. The charges were discussed.  
The DFM  set out an example fund makeup which it thought would be appropriate for Mrs S. 
In general this consisted of gilts, bonds, equities  and property over a variety of markets. The 
DFM set out how it would manage the fund over time to achieve Mrs Ss objectives. 
Ref: DRN89400534My view is that the DFM was informed of Mrs Ss requirements. It is set out that growth  was 
required initially but that income may be required in about two years time. I have not seen 
evidence that the DFM did not follow this need for growth and then income.  It was also 
aware that share options would be used  to support Mrs Ss financial requirements. Mrs S 
income would  be dependent  on what the DFM achieved (unless she wished to withdraw 
capital), regardless of what income  would  ideally be required. 
Furthermore, given the intended asset makeup of the fund, this would not appear to me to 
be out of line with the risk level agreed for Mrs S or her objectives  of obtaining growth  with 
the option to take income. Utilising capital  gains tax allowances was also to be taken into 
account and I would  also comment here that I have not seen evidence that mitigating CGT 
was prioritised over and above generating returns  for Mrs S. Furthermore Mrs S did have a 
considerable amount of guaranteed pension  income which  would not be affected by this 
investment. 
Bearing this in mind  I am also not persuaded that Mrs Ss needs  were not adequately 
communicated at the time. 
Given that the money for investment derived from risk based investments such as OEICs 
and unit trusts and Mrs S has experience of such  investments (including  their volatility), it 
does not seem unsuitable to recommend that the money was similarly invested with the 
DFM (especially given Mrs S recorded  requirements). This was not a level of risk with which 
Mrs S had no experience.  The recorded  need was for more  active management and 
supervision of the investments  which would  be provided for by the DFM. 
It has been submitted  that Mrs S was not given enough options and that LEBC  did not 
research sufficient options or provide  them to Mrs S. LEBC do not agree and say it did 
research the DFM  options and other options  before making its recommendation. Having said 
that, these options  are not explored in the LEBC recommendation document for Mrs S  in 
the main only one recommendation was made  that of the specific  DFM. Mrs S does say 
other providers were mentioned to some  extent. But the material issue  is that LEBC should 
take into account Mrs Ss needs, objectives and circumstances and then make  a suitable 
recommendation. 
The recommendation that they made was not unsuitable based on the evidence  I have  
seen. There was the opportunity for LEBC to set out more  options in more  detail 
(notwithstanding that reference is made  to considering other  types of investment in the 
recommendation report). But that does  not make its recommendation unsuitable. There  are 
also a variety of ways of meeting an investors/individuals financial needs  many of which 
would be suitable  for Mrs S. But, again,  that does not make what  was recommended  
unsuitable and I have not seen another route  which Mrs S should have clearly taken 
instead of what  was recorded (so as to make this advice unsuitable). There  isnt evidence 
that any other DFM would be necessarily better than the DFM that was chosen. The 
charges were not out-of-line with arrangements of this type and what was charged was in 
line with the illustrative  charges at outset.  
Ref: DRN89400535Having made a suitable recommendation I do not believe it was a requirement that Mrs S 
meet with a representative of the DFM.  An investor in a normal  retail  collective investment 
fund would not normally meet with the fund manager  that would not make the investment 
more or less likely to achieve  growth  and/or income. I recognise that as the fund was being 
managed specifically with Mrs S in mind that there  was a closer association between  the 
DFM and the investor. But that does not necessitate a meeting  at least  it is not a material 
failure of LEBC to not arrange this. Or even then that is caused any loss. The evidence  is 
that Mrs S was informed  who her investment manager would be at the DFM  and did contact  
him on at least one occasion.  There was the opportunity for dialogue if Mrs S required that. 
I also do not believe that it was a material failing  for LEBC  to not benchmark  the fund against  
some other value. I do not believe that was necessarily required as long as it reviewed the 
situation at reasonable intervals.  
It has been argued that some of the information  obtained about Mrs S by LEBC was 
incorrect or incomplete and I have  considered  the submissions that have been made.  But 
even if that is correct I do not believe  this has a material effect on the outcome. As 
discussed, the recommendation was in my view suitable for Mrs Ss material  requirements.  
Factors such as her pastimes,  car she owned, pension  income  likely  increasing because of a 
guaranteed uplift, the fact that share option values have been described as income  rather 
than receipt of capital  or that there was discretion as to when they could be sold,  do not in 
my view materially affect Mrs Ss objective  of investing for growth and income.  The DFM 
provided this but clearly  did not guarantee it  something  which I think Mrs S likely 
appreciated. The amounts to be provided  by way of income by the DFM  could be decided 
when and if that became necessary. 
I say Mrs S could appreciate the risks,  the overall  agreement and the way in which the 
investment operated because of her history  of investing. And it has also been  mentioned  in 
the submissions to the complaint that Mrs S had been a pension trustee and had, received 
extensive training  and exposure to investment strategy, objectives and tactics. It has been 
submitted that this would  not lead to a classification of an experienced or sophisticated 
investor for the purposes of FCA rules. But even if that were so, it is clear  in my view that 
Mrs S had the wherewithal  to appreciate the risks she was taking, what  general  approach  
was being taken, what the DFMs objectives  were and that she could request or obtain  
information if she wanted to whilst the DFM was ongoing. 
I recognise that risk assessments are not a perfect tool for assessing an individuals  attitude 
to risk in a given situation and I appreciate the submissions that have been  made about Mrs 
Ss risk assessment. But overall  I think the evidence is that Mrs S was in agreement  to 
taking risk to achieve her aims, the risk level was appropriate for the level of risk she wished 
to take and, as discussed, she appreciate the risks being taken.  I am not persuaded that Mrs 
Ss risk level changed during the period of the DFM or that LEBC  did not consider ongoing 
risk level at regular reviews. 
In terms of performance monitoring LEBC did carry out reviews six monthly which,  
considering it was the DFM that was carrying out the day to day management of assets, 
does not seem unreasonable. As I understand it, the DFM did also issue  valuations  and 
performance information at six monthly  intervals  as well as provide on-line access. 
Ref: DRN89400536Not achieving a level of performance  is not evidence of wrongdoing. The very nature of 
risk based  investing  is that hoped for returns may not be achieved. There was no 
guarantee of any particular  level of return and it is not to be expected  that any 
underperformance can simply be corrected  by taking some  other  decision  during an 
investment management  period. This was a medium to long term investment and should 
be viewed in that context. So any shorter term performance should not be necessarily 
viewed as requiring  some  action. I am not persuaded  that the DFM not achieving  a certain 
level of return was due to a failure of LEBC. 
In summary  I do not believe that LEBC made  an unsuitable recommendation for Mrs S or 
that it has failed  in its duties to her in such a way that has caused her loss. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8940053