K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr A says he doesnt recall applying  for PPI but BOS says he applied  for it at the same time 
as he applied for his credit card in branch. BOS has sent me a copy of his application form. 
In it, there is a separate  section  for PPI. The instruction says If you would  like to take 
advantage of these services  please mark the relevant boxes. The box for PPI has had an 
X placed  in it requesting cover  and Mr A has signed the form to confirm  his selections. 
Although this form was completed in branch, I wouldve expected Mr A to have looked over 
the form before signing it. 
I can see the PPI appeared on Mr As credit  card statement so had he not agreed to the 
cover, I wouldve expected him to have  questioned  what  these payment were  for. Weve also 
seen a number  of complaints from around the time Mr A bought  his PPI and from what  weve 
seen of these  cases,  I understand BOS  made  the optional nature of the PPI clear and asked 
for customers to agree  to it before adding it to their accounts as part of its usual process. 
So, overall, I think BOS made  it clear  Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out, although given  how long ago the policy was sold, I can understand why he might 
not remember this now.  
BOS says it recommended  the PPI to Mr A, so it had to check  the PPI was right for him.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr As circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
Mr A was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. Mr A seems to also have had a need for the cover. He told us he had six 
weeks full sick pay followed statutory sick pay provided by his employer. His employer also 
provided him with a redundancy package.   
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his employee benefits  for up to 12 months if Mr A 
was unable to work  because  illness or injury  so potentially longer than his full sick pay 
wouldve lasted. It also provided  cover for unemployment. So I still think the PPI couldve 
been useful for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN85806362This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But BOS  has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more.  BOS  will make arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive 
issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8580636