K820x#14complaint
Mr B says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003  on the phone a few months 
after Mr B got his card. It gave him accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  Mr B disagreed  so the 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he wasnt aware PPI was an optional  product that could have been refused. 
But he took it out after his credit card, which he applied  for in 2002,  so I think he would 
have understood it was a separate product. Theres no call recording but Ive looked  at 
the script that was used at the time. This shows the adviser was instructed to ask for 
Mr Bs consent to add the cover onto his account more than once during the call. There  
was nothing in the script  that could  reasonably  have  led Mr B to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. And Ive found no evidence to suggest the script wasnt followed. Overall, I 
think MBNA made it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr B agreed  to take it.
MBNA didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for him. It 
was up to him to decide  if he needed it, bearing in mind his other  ways  to make his 
repayments if he wasnt working.
MBNA had to provide  clear, fair and not misleading information so Mr B could make an 
informed decision.  And I agree its possible the information  MBNA gave Mr B about the 
PPI wasnt as clear  as it should  have been. But Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main  
exclusions or limitations  so its unlikely  more information  on them wouldve have 
changed his decision. Mr B told us he was entitled to statutory sick pay and had £3000 
in savings. The PPI would  have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful claims 
and allowed him to use his savings to cover other living expenses  whilst not working. He 
also said his wife would have  helped, thats not suitable  alternative protection.  Its not 
guaranteed and peoples circumstances  can change.  
Ref: DRN83253472The policy was competitively priced  and apparently  affordable so I dont think better cost 
information would have changed his decision.  Mr Bs representative asked how such a 
small change  in price could change the outcome of the complaint. To reach  my decision 
Ive taken into account everything I know  about Mr Bs situation in 2003  and the value of 
the policy. And in his individual circumstances I think he would have found it useful. So 
its most  likely he would have bought  the policy even if better information had been  
provided.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr B.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8325347