K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage which, until recently Ms L held with National Westminster  
Bank Plc (NatWest).  Shes unhappy  at having to pay an early  repayment charge (ERC) 
when sold her property  and redeemed the mortgage, believing shed get a new mortgage for 
her next house.  The new application was refused on affordability grounds.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms L when my decision is 
published.
Ms Ls mortgage with NatWest was on a fixed rate, running for two years  until the end of 
August 2019.  In the spring of 2018, Ms L wanted to move house. She rang NatWest and 
asked if she could move the mortgage  to the new property; she was told she could carry 
over the rate, but would need to make  a new application which  would be assessed for 
affordability.
Ms L proceeded to sell her home; she then submitted a new mortgage application to 
NatWest through  her broker.  The new application  was for £30,000 more than the existing 
mortgage, and NatWest turned it down on affordability grounds.  Ms L obtained the mortgage  
she needed from another lender, and completed her purchase. However,  this meant  she 
paid an ERC  of about £1,800 on redeeming the NatWest mortgage. 
MS L believes she was misled and wouldnt have gone ahead with the transaction  if shed 
been correctly  informed. NatWest rejected the complaint, and when it came to us, our 
investigator didnt  think  NatWest had done anything wrong. Ms L has asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. Ms L told our investigator  shed  expected  us to be on her side; we arent on 
anyones side. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ref: DRN83199332Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As a starting point,  no one is entitled to borrow money; even where a lender has lent before,  
its not obliged  to do so again.  But a lender must  treat customers fairly. In the context of an 
application for lending, that means assessing it fairly  in accordance  with the banks lending  
criteria. Lenders criteria  are commercially  sensitive and not generally made public. Also,  
generally speaking,  its not the role of an ombudsman to interfere with a lenders commercial 
judgement on how much it will lend, and I see no reason to depart from that position here. 
Ms L says its disingenuous to say the mortgage  was unaffordable because  she was able to 
borrow it from another lender. But different lenders have  different lending criteria, and that 
includes different approaches to affordability. Just because another  lender was willing  to 
lend to Ms L doesnt  mean NatWest was at fault because  it wasnt.  
As far as the ERC itself was concerned, Ms L redeemed  the mortgage  during the period for 
which it applied, so it was payable in accordance with the underlying contract  between  her 
and NatWest. What I must  next consider is whether NatWest misled Ms L into believing a 
new mortgage was assured,  such  that porting her fixed rate to it and getting the ERC back 
was guaranteed to happen
It seems  to me that this is the very gist of the complaint,  so Ive looked very hard at all of the 
relevant evidence to decide if there  was any error  (or even ambiguity) in what NatWest told 
Ms L. Ill start with the written information, which was in the offer for the fixed  rate deal that 
was in force when  Ms L redeemed the mortgage. The relevant information  is in section 8, 
and I reproduce it below:
You have the possibility, during the period in which an early  repayment charge is payable to 
port your existing mortgage product(s) to your new property subject to the following terms.
Your new application must meet our lending criteria  current at the time you move.  We 
will carry out credit checks  on you, and will require a valuation of the new property,  
and will decline  to port if you do not meet our criteria  in force  at that time.  This may 
mean that we decline to lend at all on the new property, or may allow  you to port less 
than the amount you have applied for.
I dont find there to be any ambiguity in that narrative.  It let Ms L know  that porting is a 
possibility (not a certainty) and that to achieve  it, shed have to make a fresh mortgage 
application which would be subject to assessment against NatWests  lending criteria in force  
at the time of the application. Whilst affordability  isnt mentioned  expressly as being  one of 
the criteria, its implied in the final sentence.
Ive next considered whether NatWests  call handler  said anything in the phone call that 
could contradict the written offer. Ive listened to the call, and Im satisfied that the handler 
was very clear in explaining the correct  position  to Ms L. Heres why I think that.
Approximately one minute into the call she says The interest rate itself is portable but it 
would be subject to an application. Soon after that, she goes on to say Yes, the interest 
rate you can take with you to your new house  but it is subject to affordability and a mortgage 
application. 
Ref: DRN83199333When Ms L again questions her, the handler says You can, but it would need to be on a 
mortgage thats affordable for you, and youd need  to go through  an application to make sure 
you pass a credit check and things, so it is a new mortgage  application  so youd take the 
interest rate with you.  Ms L asks again, and the handler says Yes,  it would  be a brand new 
application.
Ms L then asks if she can keep the current mortgage; the handler replies So you can take 
your interest rate to the new property but there would be a new mortgage application. When  
you change property, we dont just update the address, you need  to get a new mortgage 
number. Even then,  Ms L asks again, and is told It would be a new application,  yes.
Again, I find nothing ambiguous or inaccurate in the answers the call handler gave. I cant 
know (and isnt my remit to consider)  what conversations Ms L had with her broker,  but Im 
not remotely persuaded that anything NatWest  told her in writing or on the phone was 
misleading or incorrect, or could in any way be construed as letting her believe she was 
guaranteed a new mortgage to port her fixed  rate to.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8319933