K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Legal  and General Assurance  Society Limited failed to explain that it 
had applied  an exclusion  to his protection policy because of his occupation. He says he was 
never made aware  of any exclusion,  and that he has paid for insurance that is of no use. 
To resolve  his complaint,  Mr O wants a refund of all the premiums  he has paid for the policy 
since it began.    
background
Mr O applied for a life and critical illness policy through  an insurance broker. His application  
was made  online on 17 February 2016 and L&G accepted it the same day. The policy  was 
set up on non-standard terms, with an exclusion based on his occupation.  Mr O is employed 
to work for one of the emergency services. That exclusion said:
no critical illness claim shall be paid in respect of the disablement of [Mr T] resulting 
from (a) any accident or injury caused  directly or indirectly by any activity connected 
with his occupation.
In 2019, Mr O discovered that his policy contained the exclusion after sending  his policy 
schedule to this service during the course of making a different  complaint. 
Mr O said he was unaware  his policy wasnt on standard  terms. He applied for a further 
policy with L&G through the same broker. Again, L&G applied  the same  exclusion relating to 
Mr Os occupation. Mr O complained to L&G in March 2019,  noting hed never  been  made  
aware of any policy exclusions until 2019. 
L&G confirmed it applied  an exclusion to critical illness insurance  and total and permanent 
disability benefit  under the policy. It said this was due to the risks associated with Mr Os 
occupation. Mr O remained unhappy and lodged a complaint. 
L&G issued a response to Mr O dated  1 April 2019. It didnt uphold the complaint. It said it 
detailed Mr Os exclusion both when he applied online, and on the policy schedule it sent 
him after his cover began. 
Though it wasnt responsible for what the broker had said to Mr O, L&G noted  how it 
provides an occupation guide  to brokers and advisers. The guide explains how it excludes 
critical illness cover and permanent total disability benefit for all applicants  that hold Mr Os 
specific emergency service job. It does so because some customers with higher  risk 
occupations have  an increased chance  of an accident that could  result  in a critical  illness 
cover claim. That affects the decision to offer insurance. 
L&G did offer Mr O £150 compensation for the way it had initially failed to record his 
complaint in his first telephone call. It told Mr O that it would assume he accepted the money 
as a cheque, unless  he gave it bank details. 
Mr O remained  unhappy with the outcome of his complaint  and briefly  undertook  some  
further correspondence with L&G. L&G confirmed the process it had followed when the 
complaint was made online. And whilst  it couldnt  show Mr O the screenshots of his 2016 
application (these had since been destroyed),  it showed how the process took place in 2019.
Ref: DRN87720192Mr O then lodged his complaint with this service. He said he felt the exclusion was a catch-
all, designed to prevent him or his family  from pursuing a claim. Further,  he supplied  
information which he said showed that the broker told him he would be covered for all core 
conditions, which is misleading. 
It was reviewed by one of our investigators, but he did not think the complaint should  
succeed.  
The investigator said whilst L&G hadnt  been  able to supply the exact screenshots of Mr Os 
online application in 2016, he believed it was likely Mr O was made aware  of the exclusion.  
This was because the exclusion was confirmed in writing once the policy documents were  
issued. He didnt  believe our service could or should interfere with L&Gs reasoning for the 
exclusion. And since he felt it had made  Mr O aware  of the exclusion,  he couldnt ask it to do 
anything more.  
Mr O remained  unhappy. He asked  for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He 
said he suffers from a type of reading  disability  and L&G should have afforded  him extra 
care. He also said that the cover he has been given isnt life and critical illness  benefit 
because it has a major exclusion.  Finally, he said that L&G had failed to highlight  an 
important issue, instead including it in the policys small print.   
  
L&G confirmed Mr O didnt take up the 2019 application for critical illness cover.  It said it had 
nothing else to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for much the same reasons. I realise  my decision will be 
disappointing for Mr O, but I dont  believe  L&G has acted unfairly  in providing his policy.  
To be clear, this complaint concerns the actions  of L&G as the insurer  of Mr Os policy.  The 
broker that assisted  him with applying for the policy is a separate  business  from L&G.  It 
follows that I cant consider what that broker may or may not have told Mr O during the 
application process. 
Mr O says L&Gs process should be clearer, and it should not allow an applicant  to proceed 
without attention being drawn to any policy exclusions. He feels that the exclusion was 
buried within  the paperwork  and not made sufficiently  clear to him. However, for the reasons 
Ill set out, I dont agree with that. 
L&G doesnt  have  archived copies  of the screens  that Mr O would have seen during  his 
online application in 2016. But, it does have copies  of the relevant stages from the 2019  
application, and this contains  the same policy exclusion. L&G says that the application  
cannot proceed unless continued by a consumer by having progressed  past a highlighted 
exclusion. I have  seen that page and the alert is in bold, and highlighted clearly at the top of 
the page as non-standard terms. It says:
Weve assessed the information provided  and can offer cover but it is not what you 
applied for due to the information supplied.
(!) Please  note the following changes to your cover
Ref: DRN87720193Critical Illness  Extra  is included with the following exclusion(s) 
I have seen no objective evidence to suggest  that L&Gs online application process  differed 
in 2016 to 2019. I say that noting  that L&G has expressly said it has not changed, and that 
the occupation guide applied throughout  which is why the same  exclusion applies on both 
occasions.  
I therefore believe it likely that the exclusion was present  during the application. And, I 
disagree that it is hidden in the paperwork either. The policy  schedule  is two pages, and the 
exclusion is set out in clear terms at the top of the second page. I dont find that to be 
unclear or misleading, and Mr O did receive that policy schedule.    
As for the exclusion  itself, I cannot  interfere in the legitimacy of an insurers commercial 
decision. What  I mean by that is it is not for this service to decide  if an insurer is willing  to 
take on the risk of an applicant in return for a certain premium.  What we can look at is 
whether an insurer  acts reasonably in the circumstances in providing  a contract of insurance. 
And I believe L&G has acted within its guidelines about certain types of occupation which  
carry a greater risk of injury, illness or death.  
I recognise Mr O has a reading difficulty,  but I cannot see that L&G had any knowledge of Mr 
Os condition, or that he may require adjustments be made for him. Further,  Mr O was able 
to sign and return checking  your details documentation to confirm  all of his answers  to the 
application questions. Id therefore expect that he was able to process the policy schedule in 
the same  way that he could sign the confirmation of the application answers (be that with or 
without assistance). 
I know Mr O feels  strongly about  the exclusion,  and his submission is that it renders his 
policy useless. But that isnt the case.  There are many medical  conditions  within  the critical 
illness definitions that have no direct or indirect  link to his employment. The policy has 
provided insurance since 2016  for those conditions,  along with life cover on the same  basis. 
The price  paid for that policy  is based  on the cover including the exclusion.  So it wouldnt be 
fair for me to propose a refund of Mr Os premiums now.  
In any event, I would only recommend  redress  of that nature where I felt L&G was 
responsible for some  unfair  action  or inaction in the sales process. The responsibility for the 
sale of the policy rests  with the broker, so Mr O may wish to pursue a complaint with that 
business separately, if he has not done  so already. 
Similarly if Mr O wants to cancel his policy  or seek cover elsewhere,  that is a matter for him 
and he may wish to seek advice beforehand. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint because I do not find L&G to have acted unfairly in the 
circumstances of providing Mr Os insurance  contract.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87720194
Ref: DRN8772019