K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the way in which AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has increased  
the cost of his private medical  insurance  policy.
background
Mr M held a private medical insurance  policy with AXA PPP.  In 2017, the policy  renewed for 
a premium of £11,803. In 2018, AXA PPP offered to renew the policy for a premium  of 
£19.863, which was an increase of 68%.
Mr M rang AXA PPP to ask why the premium had risen to such  an extent. AXA PPP 
explained the reasons, including that Mr M had made claims during the policy  year which 
had affected his level of no-claims discount (NCD).  It explained that he could buy back the 
claims if he wished, thereby restoring his NCD level.
Mr M asked  if he could  increase his excess so as to reduce the premium. AXA PPP 
explained that his current excess of £500  was the maximum  allowed under the terms of his 
current cover. AXA PPP explained to Mr M that he could take out enhanced  cover which  
would allow him to have an excess of £5,000 but that the cost of the enhanced cover would 
be in the region of £16,000 so he would be worse off by the time a claim was actually paid.
Mr M was unhappy with AXA PPPs position  and referred his complaint to us. He considered 
the price rise was excessive and that AXA PPP was being inflexible in not allowing him to 
increase the premium under his current cover. He pointed out that hed been treated for 
cancer and so couldnt readily switch to another insurer.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In her opinion, AXA 
PPP had acted fairy. 
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. The matter has therefore  been passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view that it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its 
policies. Provided  it exercises this judgement  fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its 
internal guidelines, its a matter in which we wouldnt normally  interfere.
AXA PPP has explained  to Mr M the reasons for the increase in his premium. Because he 
made claims  during  the policy year, his NCD fell from 50% to 25%. This had the effect of 
increasing his premium by 50%. The remainder of the increase was due to a rise in the base 
premium. Im satisfied that the NCD scheme is described clearly  in the membership 
handbook and that AXA PPP has applied it correctly  in this case. Im further satisfied that 
AXA PPP has calculated Mr Ms overall premium accurately and fairly.
Ref: DRN85106412The membership handbook also explains that the policyholder can buy back claims if they 
wish, so as to remove their effect on the NCD. AXA PPP offered this option to Mr M but he 
chose not to take it.
Mr M wanted AXA PPP to increase the level of excess  under his policy  and reduce his 
premium. But AXA PPP has already explained  to him that he is on the maximum excess  he 
is currently allowed. And while he could  increase  his excess if he were to enhance his cover,  
the net effect would  be that he would end up being  worse off by the time any claim had been 
paid. I consider that the question of what level of excess to offer alongside particular levels  
of cover is a matter for AXA PPPs commercial judgement; I cant  reasonably tell it that it 
must offer customers a higher excess.  Im satisfied that AXA PPP treated Mr M fairly;  it isnt 
required to offer him bespoke cover.
I sympathise with Mr M over the fact that his cover  has become so expensive and that he is 
unlikely to be able to switch to another  insurer  without losing cover for existing medical 
conditions. But I cant reasonably conclude that AXA PPP has done anything wrong.  
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8510641