K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about the service he received when he applied  for a credit  card from 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
background
On 14 April 2019 Mr W completed an online application for a credit card with NatWest. His 
application was rejected,  and he received a message saying that it looked like his credit 
score needed some  improvement before the bank  could lend to him. The message also 
gave him contact details  for two credit  reference agencies. 
Mr W has explained that this caused him great  distress.  He contacted  the credit reference  
agencies to obtain copies of his credit report.  But he couldnt see any problems with it. When 
he queried this with NatWest it told him his application had been rejected because of a 
matter to do with his current account. Mr W says he challenged this because  hed provided  
NatWest with details  of his salary  and primary bank account when he made his credit  card 
application. 
On 15 May 2019 Mr W raised  a complaint with NatWest about  a number of points. He says 
NatWest resolved the other points to his satisfaction. But he remains  unhappy that it hasnt 
admitted, or apologised for, any error when he was initially told his application had been 
rejected due to his credit score. 
In its final response letter  NatWest told him that his application had been declined because  
he didnt meet its internal criteria. It said it had reached this decision based  on information 
taken from credit reference agencies or internal information held with other  accounts,  as well 
as the information he provided on his application. It said that once Mr W had provided it with 
statements to support his affordability and income  it was able to accept his application.  And I 
understand he now has a NatWest  credit card.
Mr W brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator said that he could understand 
why Mr W had been concerned and checked  his credit report. But he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for NatWest to have displayed  the message it had when his application  was 
rejected. And he said he wouldnt  expect  NatWest to reveal details of its internal credit 
scoring system.
Mr W disagrees with this view. Hes told us he feels he has a case  for damages under 
English tort law. So the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr W will be very disappointed, 
but Ive reached  the same  conclusions as our investigator did here. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN87040712Mr W has shown  us a screenshot of the message he received from NatWest when it rejected 
his credit card application. It says Sorry we cant offer you a credit  card just now.  When we 
carried out your credit  check it looks like your score needs some improvement before  wed 
be able to lend to you. It went on to say there  were  some things that he could  do to improve  
his credit score, and that there was some useful  information on its website. It also said that 
he could manage  his credit rating with credit reference agencies. And contained contact 
details for two of these  agencies.
Its clear Mr W was very distressed by this message. Hes told us he paid to obtain copies of 
his credit report and spent a lot of time going  through them. I can understand why he did 
this. But in order for me to ask NatWest to apologise  to him or direct it to pay him any 
compensation Id normally  need to find that it had made a mistake or treated Mr W unfairly.  
And I havent reached that conclusion here.
Whilst the message  was generic in nature, I dont think it was misleading.  I appreciate  it 
didnt state exactly  why NatWest thought Mr Ws credit score wasnt  good enough for it to 
lend to him. But as our investigator explained,  we wouldnt expect a lender to disclose details 
of their internal  lending  criteria, or necessarily  give a specific  reason behind  its decision not 
to lend. 
NatWest gave Mr W more  detail about why his application was declined when he asked. And 
he was then able to provide it with some further  information which  led to it giving him a credit 
card. I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can see why its frustrating 
for Mr W that if he hadnt followed this up with NatWest  the process would have stopped  at 
his application  being declined. But there wasnt any requirement for NatWest to contact him 
and ask for more information that might  help it to change its mind. And given the nature  of an 
online application I dont  think it would be reasonable to expect it to do so.
I appreciate that after reading NatWests initial message Mr W was concerned  that there was 
a problem with the data the credit reference  agencies held about him. And Im sorry to hear 
this caused him distress.  But like our investigator, I dont think its unusual  or unreasonable  
that NatWest let him know how to check his credit rating or included  details  for credit 
reference agencies.  This was a communication about a credit application, and the 
information in these credit reports is relevant to such an application.
Ive also considered the wording of the message  carefully. NatWest didnt specifically direct 
Mr W that he had to check these reports, or say that it was because of these reports  alone 
that it hadnt accepted his application. I appreciate the message didnt explicitly  state  that 
credit score  in this context was an internal  measure. But there  is information  about this on 
NatWests website, as the message highlighted. And having  reviewed  this I do think 
NatWest has taken  reasonable  steps  to inform  customers of the sort of information  it looks at 
when making its assessment of their credit  score. And Im satisfied that the reason it initially  
declined Mr Ws application  to do with his bank account  did affect its assessment of his 
credit score. So I dont  think what it told him was incorrect.
I understand Mr W is concerned that this message may cause others concern in the same 
way it did him. Its not the role of this service to tell NatWest to change  its systems or 
processes, or the content of messages on its website. So I dont have the power to ask it do 
this. But Im sure the bank  considers  if it thinks  it can improve things based on the feedback  
it gets from its customers.
Ref: DRN87040713I appreciate Mr W will be very disappointed,  but I dont think NatWest did anything wrong 
here. I can see he feels he has a legal basis to pursue it for damages.  But we are an 
informal dispute resolution service, not a court. Whilst the law is something I take into 
account, I make my decisions  based  on what I think is fair and reasonable when considering 
the circumstances of the complaint as a whole. And in this case  although Im sorry to hear of 
the distress and inconvenience  Mr W experienced, I dont think  NatWest acted unfairly or 
unreasonably for the reasons Ive outlined above. However if Mr W doesnt agree with my 
decision he is free to try and pursue this complaint elsewhere if he wishes.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8704071