K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly  closed his bank account.
background
Mr A said he explained  to HSBC, when he opened  his account, that he wasnt  working due 
to ill health and that he had income  from critical illness cover and money from investments 
elsewhere. He said he told HSBC that he may transfer funds into his account,  and the bank 
had agreed to contact  him with any concerns, as hed had a previous bank account closed.
HSBCs record  of its call with Mr A when he opened  his account states it would contact him if 
it needed to. HSBC said it reviewed Mr As account in line with the terms and conditions, and 
didnt need to call him. HSBC decided to close Mr As account  and wrote  to him about  this 
giving him two months notice  no reason for the closure was given.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said HSBC  can review 
and close an account without providing  the customer  an explanation. He said HSBC  acted 
within the terms and conditions of the account and had treated Mr A fairly.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator, saying its totally unreasonable to close  someone's  
account so soon after opening it without  giving any reason, or an appeal. He said his health 
and his financial situation werent  taken  into consideration  by HSBC, and have worsened as 
a consequence. Mr A requested an ombudsman  review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was unhappy that HSBC closed his account  without consulting  him first, and that it 
wouldnt provide  its reasons  for doing  this. HSBC said it didnt call Mr A as it didnt need 
anything from him.
Ive looked carefully  at HSBCs handling  and decisions  about Mr As account to see if it 
followed its procedures and treated him fairly.  Banks have set procedures in place  for 
monitoring accounts and they have legal  and regulatory obligations to follow. Our role is to 
check whether HSBC followed the correct  procedures,  and where it hasn't we ask the bank 
to put things right for the customer.
From HSBCs terms and conditions  and from the regulations  it must  follow, its clear  HSBC 
has the authority  to review, block and close customer accounts.  HSBC, in common  with all 
banks, can take this action without giving  their customer reasons. That is disappointing for 
Mr A, but our service  cant compel  HSBC to explain its actions to him.  
I can understand why Mr A felt that HSBC didnt take his personal circumstances into 
account and didnt understand the impact this has had upon him. HSBC  said it didnt need 
anything from Mr A and so didnt need  to contact him, and it reached a decision to close  his 
account following  a review. 
From what  Ive seen HSBC has acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the 
account and in line with its regulatory  and legal responsibilities. HSBC gave the proper 
Ref: DRN82500642notice to Mr A, and isnt required  to further  review its decision. Although I sympathise with Mr 
A for his personal circumstances, from what I have  seen HSBC has treated him fairly and I 
cannot uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8250064