K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank  Limited (SG Kleinwort) blocked and 
closed her account following a review.  And it hasnt satisfactorily explained  why it did so. 
background
Miss W had a personal and a business  account  with SG Kleinwort.
This decision will deal with Miss Ws complaint  about her personal  account.
In November 2017, two payments of £5,700 and £11,700 were credited to Miss Ws personal 
account. Miss W has explained that the payments were for a friend who was working 
temporarily in the UK, and was unable  to open  a bank  account to deposit his earnings. 
Miss W says she intended to withdraw the funds in cash  to give to her friend so that he could  
use the money to pay for expenses. And hed then take the remaining sum home when  he 
left the UK where hed declare the income  as required.
SG Kleinwort reviewed Miss Ws account  and asked her to provide it with information about 
the payments.  In response,  Miss W provided  SG Kleinwort with copies of her friends work 
contract and payslips. She also contacted  her friends HR and personnel department  to 
obtain information about her friends payroll  and sending bank.
Whilst it conducted its review SG Kleinwort  applied a block to Miss Ws account  which  
reduced the daily amount she was able to withdraw  from the account from £2,000 to £500.  
Miss W asked SG Kleinwort to return the money  to the sending bank. SG Kleinwort initially  
blocked the transaction. And it asked Miss W for some more information  regarding her 
friends payroll. On 11 December 2018,  SG Kleinwort  returned the funds  to the sending 
bank. 
On 1 December  2017, SG Kleinwort wrote to Miss W to let her know it had decided to close 
her account.  SG Kleinwort  gave her 60 days notice and asked her to make  alternative 
banking arrangements.
Following this, Miss W contacted our service and asked us to look into what  had happened.  
An investigator looked at Miss Ws complaint. She thought SG Kleinwort had acted in line 
with their know your customer review process when it had asked Miss W for information  
about the payments into her account in November 2018. And said it had complied with the 
terms and conditions when it closed Miss Ws account. 
Miss W didnt agree  with the investigators findings. Whilst she accepted  the bank could 
close her account, she said SG Kleinwort  hadnt  treated her fairly because it hadnt  properly 
explained why it had closed her account.  And shes  still unhappy that SG Kleinwort restricted 
her access  to her account by limiting the daily withdrawal limit. As no agreement  could  be 
reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN83500992Ill start by setting out some context for SG Kleinworts  review of Miss Ws account. Anti-
money laundering regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on regulated 
financial businesses. Banks in the UK are also required by law to comply  with know your 
customer (KYC) requirements.  In order to do so banks in the UK must have suitable systems  
in place for customer identification. Financial institutions must establish the purpose and 
intended nature of a business as well as the origin of funds,  and there may be penalties if 
they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
SG Kleinwort has said their review of Miss Ws account was to meet  these legal 
requirements. It says it asked Miss W to provide  information about the payments in 
November 2018  to ensure they understood enough about the origin of the funds and the 
account use in order to comply with its KYC process. 
So whilst I understand Miss Ws strength of feeling, I cant say SG Kleinwort treated Miss W 
unfairly when it questioned  her about  the payments into her account. SG Kleinwort has a 
legal obligation  to ensure  that their customers are who they say they are, to protect the 
security of their accounts and also to comply with various  laws and regulations.  Miss W 
agreed to this term as a customer, and it is a reasonable  term. So I cant  say SG Kleinwort 
has done anything  wrong.
Miss W says SG Kleinwort didnt satisfactorily  explain  why it blocked and closed her 
account. And says its been inconsistent with its explanations  initially  saying it was due to 
regulatory obligations and later that it was as a result of the way Miss W had used the 
account. 
Having looked  at the evidence, in particular, a letter dated 8 January  2019, which  SG 
Kleinwort sent to Miss W, I can see that it clearly sets out that SG Kleinwort closed Miss Ws 
account because  shed allowed her account to be used for the benefit of a third person, 
which is a breach of the terms and conditions of the account. So I think  its likely Miss W had 
a good understanding  of why the bank closed her account.   
Miss W says the bank told her that receiving the payments would put it in breach of its 
regulatory requirements. But didnt explain exactly what the issue was. I appreciate  Miss W 
wouldve liked more information. However, the bank isnt obliged to provide any further 
explanation. So I dont think this means SG Kleinwort have been inconsistent  about what  it 
was doing and why.  
Miss W says SG Kleinwort shouldnt have  blocked  her account. She says the bank restricted  
her access  to her funds by reducing her daily withdrawal limit from £2,000  to £500. She says 
this caused her a great deal of inconvenience.  And this was particularly stressful as she was 
travelling abroad.   
The terms and conditions  of the account set out that SG Kleinwort may freeze an account  if 
we reasonable  consider that: 
a)Such as account  is being used for illegal  purposes
b)There is a disagreement  about the ownership of the money in that account or any 
other disagreement between joint holders of such an account, or
c)To do so is necessary  to safeguard our interests
The terms also say that when an account is frozen SG Kleinwort can refuse requests to 
withdraw or transfer  all or any part of the funds held in the account.  Having looked at the 
Ref: DRN83500993evidence, Im satisfied the bank  restricted Miss Ws use of her account in line with the terms 
and conditions. And that it did so to safeguard its interests to ensure it complied with its 
regulatory obligations. Ive also kept in mind that Miss Ws account was otherwise operating 
normally. So I cant say SG Kleinwort treated Miss W unfairly  when it restricted her account. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both SG Kleinwort and Miss W had to 
comply with  say that it could close the accounts  by giving her 60 days  notice. SG 
Kleinwort has done this. So its entitled to close the account as it seems its already  done. 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Miss W feels about whats happened, and I dont 
doubt it was a frustrating time. But overall,  based  on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say 
SG Kleinwort have acted  unreasonably. So I wont be asking  them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350099