K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited declined  the claim he made on his 
motor insurance policy  after it was stolen, and that it took far too long to deal with the claim.
 
background
In June 2017 Mr R told Calpe his car had been  stolen from the street  close to his wifes 
family home, where  he said hed left it locked and secured. The police later found the car. It 
was damaged and had been in an accident with another car. They told Mr R that witnesses  
had reported youths of around  14 to15 years old driving the car. The police also told him 
they were unable to charge anyone with an offence  due to problems with identification.
On 4 August  2017, Calpe requested a police report.  It wasnt  received until March 2018. 
Meanwhile, on 10 August  2017 Calpe got a report from the engineer  who had inspected 
Mr Rs car. The report  said there were no signs of forced entry  to it. The central locking still 
worked. There was no damage  to the steering lock or any other  signs  of tampering in an 
attempt to start the car. Mr R had already told Calpe he only had one key for the car. He said 
hed misplaced the other one in his home, which was a long distance away. Calpe said it 
was unable to examine  Mr Rs one key due to the make of the vehicle.   
The police told Calpe in November 2017  that Calpes request for a report had been put on 
hold. In January  2018 the police told Calpe it wanted confirmation that it was a member of 
the Association of British  Insurers (ABI)  before it could supply a report to it. A dispute about  
this issue continued  until March 2018. Caple  then got the police report, but didnt think it 
added anything to the facts it already knew.  
On 21 March 2018, Calpe told Mr R his claim had been declined. It said the loss was in 
breach of the policys security provision. It said the facts suggested  that the car wasnt 
properly secured and Mr R had provided  only one key to Calpes investigators.  Mr R said 
hed locked the car and it wasnt for him to say how the thief got into it.
One of our adjudicators looked  into Mr Rs complaint. She said that a thief would  have had to 
get into the locked vehicle  without  a key - causing  no damage,  and would then have had to 
drive it away,  also without  causing  any damage. She didnt think  it was unreasonable for 
Calpe to conclude  that the car was unsecured.  She thought the delay in finalising the 
complaint was due to the police not providing  its report earlier. As there  was no agreement, 
the complaint  was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the notes Calpes  provided, I think it could have chased the police report more  in 
September and October 2017.  But I dont  think it would have made any difference to the 
outcome had it done so. Towards the end of November 2017 the police told Calpe that its 
investigations were  continuing. Mr R told Calpe the police  first told him theyd completed 
their enquiries at the end of December 2017. So it wouldnt  have been possible to get the 
police report before then.  There was a further  delay as the police then disputed  (for the first 
time) that it should send Calpe its report,  due to the dispute over ABI membership.  
Ref: DRN82578792In my opinion, it was reasonable for Calpe to wait for the police report  to be issued. I think  it 
may have  helped Calpe with its investigation.  It could have influenced the outcome of the 
claim. I think  Calpe  has shown that it co-operated  with the police, despite being perplexed by 
their ABI query   and it tried to ensure there was progress from January to March 2018. 
Although Mr R said he was sure hed locked the car, a thief managed  to get into it without 
causing any damage at all. The thief was then able to start the car and drive it away. The 
thief did that without interfering with the steering lock, the ignition or any other part of the car 
that thieves often have to tamper  with to start a car. Some thieves do equip themselves with 
devices to get into cars. They  may also have devices to start them. But I can see from the 
notes that Calpe had doubts  about that happening in this case.  Calpe was of the view that 
the cars  theft was opportunistic. I can see why it reached that conclusion. Mr Rs car wasnt  
a high-value vehicle, so its unlikely to have been  stolen  to order.  And I think the age of the 
people who probably  stole it suggests it was an easy  target.  
The policy exclusion  Calpe relies on says it wont  cover Loss of or damage to Your  car 
arising from Theft when  the tailgate, boot, sunroof or any door of Your  car has been left 
unlocked when ignition keys are in or on Your car.  When it declined  the claim, Calpe said 
the facts suggested  that the car wasnt secured and only one key for it was available.  
I think it was reasonable  for Calpe to say the lack of any theft  damage  suggested  the car 
wasnt secured. I think the missing  key was another valid concern for Calpe. Our adjudicator 
said that if Mr R found  the key, Calpe should  reconsider the claim. But Mr R hasnt  done  so, 
despite having moved house, when he might  have been expected to find it. I think  Calpes 
concern about  it being missing was reasonable, as the car was driven away  without the thief 
having to interfere with any of the cars mechanisms. Although  Calpe didnt say so explicitly, 
it couldnt rule out the fact that the missing  key could have been  used to take the car.     
I think Calpe  carried out a reasonable investigation into the theft. It didnt examine the engine  
control unit, but it said it didnt think that was necessary, given the facts it already had. I dont 
think its likely that would  have made  a difference  to the outcome, given the circumstances  
here. I think  it was reasonable for Calpe to decline Mr Rs claim, and in my opinion it wasnt 
to blame for any undue delay. So I cant uphold Mr Rs complaint.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under Financial  Ombudsman  Service 
rules, I must ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 5 May 2019.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257879