K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr P say HSBC UK Bank  Plc, trading as First Direct, (HSBC) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr P bought the policy  in 1996 when arranging an equity release mortgage loan. 
From what  I have,  Mrs and Mr P spoke to HSBC by phone and then an application for the 
policy was sent by post.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs and Mr P for accident, sickness  and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. The monthly benefit was £150 and cost £7.50  a 
month at the time. To help Mrs and Mr P with their mortgage costs,  the policy offered to pay, 
for a successful claim for Mrs or Mr P, a share  of the monthly benefit - in line with her or his 
share of joint monthly income in the months before the claim.
Mr P was employed as a supervisor and had been there more than ten years at the time. 
Mrs P was employed in sales  and had been  there three years.  Theyve told us they were 
entitled to less than three  months  full sick pay or redundancy pay and each had savings  of 
£5000 available  to cover loan payments if they couldnt  work.
From what  Mrs and Mr P has told us, Mr P was in good health and hadnt had health issues  
but Mrs P missed a weeks work with surgery 19 years before the sale,  six weeks work with 
surgery a year before the sale and was incapacitated for a week  with an issue she saw the 
doctor for 15 years before the sale.
HSBC has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed  in 2003. Mrs and Mr Ps 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mrs and Mr Ps representative says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr P wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs and Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  HSBC should have told Mrs and Mr P 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs and Mr P and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
Ref: DRN85229322The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs and Mr P received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs and Mr P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs and Mr Ps complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN85229323The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ps case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs and Mr Ps complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mrs and Mr P with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether HSBC gave Mrs and Mr P sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mrs and Mr Ps 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mrs and Mr P and 
HSBC, Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs and Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Ref: DRN85229324did Mrs and Mr P know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. 
HSBC says that at the time Mrs and Mr P took their loan, PPI wouldnt have been  set up 
unless a separate PPI application form was completed and returned  first. It says it no longer 
has a copy of Mrs and Mr Ps completed  form. Given the time that has passed since the loan 
was repaid, I dont  find that surprising. But HSBC has sent a sample it says is representative 
of the form in use at the time.  This suggests  the monthly benefit applied  for wouldve been 
put on the form as well as the names  of the person or persons to be covered. HSBC says 
these details had to be put in by the applicants  themselves. The sample suggests a separate 
direct debit was needed  for the PPI  and that the application and direct debit wouldve been  
signed by the applicants  before the PPI could start.
Mrs and Mr P have  said they had no interest  in PPI and have said it was just included  as 
part of the package with their loan.  But Ive nothing else to make me think  this or make  me 
think HSBC wouldnt normally have given customers like Mrs and Mr P a choice about  the 
PPI at the time of this sale. Having thought about  it carefully, on balance what  Mrs and Mr P 
have said doesnt  on its own persuade  me HSBC didnt give them a choice about the PPI or 
misled them  about  having to take it. I say this bearing in mind also that, in view of the time 
that passed in between, I wouldnt expect Mrs and Mr P, either now or when they first set out 
their recollections for us, to vividly recall the sale or remember all that happened at that time.
The sample form HSBC  has provided  is dated  more than two years  before the sale.  But, with 
all Ive said above in mind and based on what I have, Ive no persuasive reason to think a 
similar form and process wasnt in use when  Mrs and Mr P took their policy. I think the use of 
a separate PPI application form wouldve tended to suggest the PPI was something separate  
from the loan and something  Mrs and Mr P needed to make  a separate  decision about.
So, with everything  Ive said above  in mind, what I have doesnt  persuade  me HSBC  didnt 
give Mrs and Mr P a choice about  taking  the PPI. Also Ive seen nothing to suggest HSBC 
pressured Mrs and Mr P into taking the PPI. So, taking  everything  into account and having  
thought carefully  about all theyve said, I think its more likely Mrs and Mr P knew the PPI 
was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure.
did HSBC provide  advice?
HSBC says it didnt  give advice during this sale. Mrs and Mr P dont say advice  was given. 
With all this in mind, I dont think advice was given. This means HSBC didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs and Mr P. Instead  it had to give them sufficient, appropriate  and 
timely information to enable them  to make an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
 the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs and Mr P were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  payments if they 
were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mrs and Mr P wouldve taken 
the PPI without any sense of what  it was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, 
Ref: DRN85229325the sample application form makes me think it likely Mrs and Mr P knew the monthly benefit 
they were applying for.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs and Mr P 
agreed to take the policy.
So I dont  think HSBC  gave Mrs and Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs and Mr Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs and Mr Ps. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs and Mr Ps representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs and Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mrs and Mr P has suggested. And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude HSBC  ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mrs and Mr P? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found HSBC didnt do all it should have  done when it sold this policy  to Mrs and Mr P. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had HSBC  done  things properly. 
Mrs and Mr P say they would not have taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN85229326As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs and Mr P had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of either (or both) of them being unable to work.
As Ive found above, Mrs and Mr P chose to take this policy.  So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what they thought they were getting 
isnt exactly what they got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs and Mr P have suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive explained, what Ive seen makes me think it likely the information Mrs and Mr P were 
given about the benefit was clear. But the information about  other  aspects of the policy, such 
as the cost, the limitations and the exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should  have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs and Mr P knew they would have to pay 
something for the policy, Ive nothing to show that HSBC told them  the exact premium when 
they applied. That said, if when Mrs and Mr P were later told of its cost or started to pay it 
this had been significantly at odds with their expectations at the sale,  they mightve  raised 
that with HSBC or reconsidered their decision at that time. Instead they paid for the policy  for 
a number of years (until, from what HSBC  has said, a month  or so after the loan was repaid, 
at which  point a small  refund of premiums was made). 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs and Mr P would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure when  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs and Mr P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any chronic or continuing disease Mrs or Mr P had 
at the start and excluded claims relating to any health issue they should reasonably have 
known of at the start or had received treatment or advice  for in the 12 months before the 
start and recurred within  12 months  of the start;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  for those who 
werent permanent  employees;
For a disability claim, Mrs or Mr P had to be not only unable  to do his or her own job but 
also be unable to do any work; and
The policy paid its benefit for up to 12 months,  rather than the remaining mortgage term.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs and Mr P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs and Mr P from taking the PPI. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. They were eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to them.
Also both Mrs and Mr P were in permanent employment and Mr P was in good  health and 
not affected by the policy medical  exclusions.  
Ref: DRN85229327The circumstances in which Mrs P couldve claimed for disability if it related to health  issues 
shed had in the past, were very limited - and if they recurred within  12 months  of the start,  
she couldnt have  claimed. But from what Ive seen,  Im persuaded the issues for which  
shes had surgery wouldve been  considered  to pose little risk of recurrence or of significant  
future work absences. I take into account here all Mrs and Mr P have told us about those 
issues, and the fact Ive seen  nothing to suggest the surgery wasnt successful  in each case.
The health  issue  that incapacitated Mrs P for a week, 15 years before the sale,  is capable  of 
being ongoing or recurring but Ive seen nothing to suggest that for Mrs P it was ongoing or 
likely to recur. I say this taking into account  all Mrs and Mr P have told us about  the issue,  
Mrs Ps job, the time that had passed since she suffered the issue and the fact Ive nothing 
to suggest she didnt make a full recovery from the issue at the time.
With all the above  in mind, had Mrs and Mr P been  told more about policy health exclusions 
Im not persuaded its likely they wouldve considered the potential impact  of these for Mrs P 
to be significant  enough for them to place much  weight on this or for it to have affected their 
decision to take the policy. 
So, I think they still had some good  reasons to take the cover.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  it unlikely Mrs and Mr P would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mrs and Mr P had known they could  only claim for disability if Mrs or Mr P were not only 
unable to do her or his own job but also be unable to do any work, it might have played into 
their thinking  about what  to do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  but, 
given Mrs and Mr Ps circumstances, on balance I think it likely they wouldve still been  
interested in taking the cover. 
HSBC may not have  told Mrs and Mr P any claim they made would be limited  to a 12 month 
period. This may have  differed from what they expected and might  have hoped  for. But 
12 months was longer  than either  of them wouldve received full sick pay and they havent 
said that either of them had a redundancy entitlement of as much  as 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs and Mr P wouldve still thought  a policy  that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  to help with mortgage related costs,  would be of 
benefit and help them manage the consequences if either one of them  (or both) became 
unable to work in the circumstances covered by the policy.  
The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made and, by helping Mrs and Mr P reduce their 
outgoings, the benefit would help ensure their home was not placed at risk and allow them  to 
keep their savings, which  theyd chosen to keep rather than use to reduce their borrowings, 
intact or free for other  uses at what could be a difficult and uncertain time were  Mrs or Mr P 
(or both) unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs and Mr P would still have taken  the policy. It was sufficiently close  to what  its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if either one of them  (or both) were made redundant, or unable to work  due to 
Ref: DRN85229328accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely  than not they would have 
taken the policy in any event, notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs and Mr Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs and Mr P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs and Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs and Mr P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs and Mr P in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt 
have taken the PPI, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they would 
still have taken it had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable, in those 
circumstances, to conclude HSBC should  pay Mrs and Mr P compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done.
Im also aware Mrs and Mr P thinks HSBC  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  it gave Mrs and Mr P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1996 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs and Mr Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mrs and Mr P and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find HSBC had been in breach of its duty of 
Ref: DRN85229329utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs and Mr P in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8522932