K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains about the repairs U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  made to her car under her 
motor insurance policy.  She seeks additional compensation for her trouble and upset.
background
Miss C was involved in a car accident  and UKI took her car to its approved repairers.  When  
the repairs were completed, Miss C asked UKI for a copy of the safety report  and she said 
one door was now stiff to open. 
UKI said it would  send Miss C a copy of the geometry report completed by the repairer. UKI 
sent an external  engineer to inspect  the door. He said it was stiff due to wear and tear and 
there was rust present.  Miss C didnt receive  the geometry report  so she complained.  UKI 
apologised. It arranged for the report to be sent,  and it paid Miss C £25 compensation for 
this delay. But Miss C remained unhappy  with the geometry report and the stiff door.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought the 
engineers report  had shown UKI that the doors  stiffness was unrelated to the claim or the 
repairs. So he thought  its decision  not to pay for its repair was reasonable.
But he thought  UKIs  level of service  in regards to the geometry report  was poor. Miss C was 
worried about the cars safety. The repairing garage  said it had carried out a geometry 
report. Miss C had to wait months for the report and it contained some incorrect  information. 
A later MOT said a geometry report was required although Miss C said she hardly drove the 
car at all. So the adjudicator thought UKI should pay Miss C £50 for a new geometry check  
to be carried out and pay Miss C a further  £100  for her trouble and upset. 
UKI agreed  to do this. But Miss C replied that this didnt compensate  her for the time it took 
to reach  this point and its effect on her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Miss C was hurt in the hit and run accident. I hope she is recovering 
from this. I can see that the accident was in February 2017 and UKI has agreed  that Miss C 
brought her complaints  about the repairs and the geometry report to us within time.
Miss C said one of her cars rear doors was stiff after the accident and the repairs.  The 
adjudicator has already  explained that this service doesnt assess whether or how damage 
to a vehicle would be caused  as this is a matter for the experts  in these situations, the 
insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether  
an insurance company  has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can justify  
its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
UKI had an independent  engineer examine Miss Cs car. I think  this was fair and reasonable 
as its what Id require  where theres  a dispute such as this. I can see that Miss C was 
concerned by the accuracy of some  parts of his report and by his approach.  
Ref: DRN89906572But I think the findings are clear  that the doors stiffness is due to wear and tear. He also 
noted this to a lesser  extent in the other  rear door.  I cant see any evidence that the repairers 
worked on the door mechanism. The adjudicator reviewed  photographs of the work carried  
out and the door mechanism was untouched. 
Miss C thought the door would have  suffered due to the impact of the collision. But I cant  
see that theres any other expert evidence for UKI to consider. So I think UKI reasonably 
considered the evidence  and decided that the doors stiffness was unrelated to the accident 
or the repairs. So I dont  think  it did anything wrong on this point. 
Miss C was very concerned about her cars  safety  following the accident.  She asked for the 
cars safety  check completed  by the repairers.  UKI said it would send her the geometry 
check but this didnt arrive until after Miss C complained. Miss C told UKI that an MOT had 
found that a further geometry check was needed,  even  though  it was done shortly after the 
repairs and Miss C said she hardly ever drove the car. The garages  report gave a slightly  
incorrect registration number which caused  Miss C concern.  UKI later said it should  have 
resolved these concerns by completing  another check.
Its now agreed to pay Miss C the cost of having this done. I think thats fair and reasonable. 
Its also agreed to pay Miss C a further  £100 for the trouble and upset caused by the delays 
in getting the report  and resolving her concerns. 
I can understand that Miss C feels that shes  had two years of worry about this matter  since  
her accident.  But Miss C could have  brought her complaint to us sooner. Shes explained 
why she didnt do this, but I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible  for this delay. Its also not 
our role to punish businesses for their failings or errors.  Where  an error  is made  we expect  a 
business to restore  the consumers position and we consider  the impact of the error on the 
consumer.
I can understand that Miss C was left hurt by the accident, but I cant  hold UKI responsible 
for this. But I think UKI was made  aware  of Miss Cs concerns about her cars  safety  and I 
think it could have  done more and sooner in response. Its agreed to pay Miss C £125 in 
total compensation for the trouble and upset this caused. I think this is fair and reasonable 
as its in keeping  with what Id require in similar circumstances. I note that Miss C said she 
didnt cash the cheque for £25, so this may need to be reissued. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay 
Miss C a further £100 (£125 in total) for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its level of 
service, as its already  agreed to do.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990657