K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has refused their 
insurance claim following  a burglary at their home  unreasonably.
background
Mr and Mrs M had a TailorMade Saga home  insurance policy underwritten by RSA which  
included cover for theft of contents.  They  had renewed their policy in June 2018 and their 
statement of insurance  included a security endorsement which  read:
When you go to bed for the night or leave  your home unattended, cover  against theft or 
attempted theft will only apply if your home  is protected by an intruder alarm. The alarm must 
be tested when you set it and regularly inspected under  a yearly service contract with an 
intruder alarm company  approved  by National Security Inspectorate  (NSI) or Security  
Systems and Alarm Inspection Board (SSAIB). If the alarm breaks down, you must:
1) Tell the alarm company,
2) Arrange for repair work to begin as soon as possible,
3) Tell us, and
4) Take any action  we suggest to protect your property. 
They had a burglar  alarm  fitted at their property  but when they went  out for the day in 
August 2018,  they didnt set the alarm and their home was burgled.  When they made a claim 
for theft on their insurance policy, they were told they were in breach of their policy because 
the alarm  hadnt  been set and RSA refused the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to RSA. They said they hadnt set their alarm due to previous  
false alarms in recent weeks.  They  said that an engineer inspected  their alarm after the 
break-in and confirmed  it was in perfect working order.
Mr and Mrs M said the police confirmed it wouldnt have made any difference if the alarm 
had been set because of the time it wouldve  taken the police to reach their property. So they 
didnt think it was fair that their claim had been turned down because  of this. But their 
complaint was rejected so they came to this service. Our investigator looked  into it but he 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld so Mr and Mrs M asked for review by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen, I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
The security  endorsement  on Mr and Mrs Ms policy is clear about the need to set the 
burglar alarm to ensure cover. But they chose  not to set the alarm  that day. They say theyd 
had problems with the alarm so had stopped setting it two weeks before the burglary.  But 
they didnt contact RSA or the alarm company to see what could be done about it until after 
the incident. When the alarm was tested  after the burglary, the engineer  didnt find it to be 
faulty in any event. But Mr and Mrs M didnt set the alarm and hadnt taken any of the steps 
required if they thought the alarm  had broken  down.  So they didnt fulfil the requirements  of 
the policy.
Ref: DRN83799902I need to consider if, in all the circumstances, it was fair and reasonable for RSA to refuse 
the claim on this basis. Mr and Mrs M have provided evidence  that the police wouldnt have 
attended their property in time even if the alarm  had been set. But an alarm may have a 
deterrent effect which couldve cut short the burglary or limited  the amounts stolen. In the 
circumstances, I think  its reasonable for RSA to refuse the claim because Mr and Mrs M 
hadnt set the alarm as required by the security endorsement in their policy.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs M were hoping for, but I hope Ive explained my 
reasons for not upholding their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8379990