K820x#14complaint
Ms M, Mr M and the legal  representative  of the late Mr T complain that Santander UK Plc 
trading as National and Provincial at the time (Santander) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy alongside a mortgage.
background
Ms M, Mr M and Mr T took out a mortgage  in 1992. At the same time they took out a PPI 
policy in Ms Ms sole name.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained  why I wasnt  intending to 
uphold this complaint.  The provisional  decision is attached and forms part of my final 
decision.
I asked for all the parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
my findings
Ive re- considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
I havent upheld  this complaint. Neither party has given me any further information to 
consider so I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M, Mr M and 
the legal  representative of the late Mr T to accept  or reject my decision before 11 May 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Ms M complain that Santander UK Plc trading as National and Provincial at the time 
(Santander) mis-sold them  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside  a mortgage.
background
Mr and Ms M and Mr T took out a mortgage in 1992. At the same  time they took out a PPI policy in 
Ms Ms sole name.
Ref: DRN89090142This policy covered Ms M only, if she was off work  because of an accident or sickness or if she lost 
her job. It cost £43.81 per month  and although  Santander cant say exactly what the monthly benefit  
would have been if Ms M made  a successful claim,  it more likely would  have covered the monthly 
mortgage repayments for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator looked  at this complaint and said that she didnt think it should  be upheld. Mr and Ms 
M disagreed with this view and asked  for the complaint  to be referred to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. So the case has been passed to me.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ms M in particular has made detailed representations about why she thinks the PPI was mis-sold for 
which I thank her. I want to assure  Mr and Ms M that I have taken into account  each of their points 
carefully. And although I appreciate Mr and Ms M will be disappointed with my decision Im not 
intending to uphold this complaint. I will explain why below.
I have written this provisional decision to give Mr and Ms M an opportunity to come back to me before 
I make  my final decision as I realise  how strongly they feel about the PPI being  mis-sold  and how 
important my decision  is to them. But I hope Ive answered the queries which  have been  raised in 
their complaint. For ease of reference I have headed each paragraph below to signpost what I have 
considered in order  to make  my decision.
This sale happened over 27 years ago and Santander  doesnt  have all the information.  This isnt 
unusual or surprising  as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. I have also taken  into 
account the length of time that has passed. So where any of the information  is incomplete or 
inconsistent, I will make  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities.  That is the standard of 
proof I will use and it means that I have to decide  the complaint  on what it more likely  than not to have 
happened at the time. To do this I have  used the evidence available, what  the parties  have told me 
and Ive also taken into account what we know about the way Santander carried out these  types of 
sales at that time.
how was the PPI sold?
The first point I have considered is how the policy was sold. Santander says this was a branch sale 
and that it advised Mr and Ms M and Mr T to take out the policy. Mr and Ms M are very clear  that it 
couldnt have been a sale which took place in branch.  They say they didnt speak to anyone  and didnt 
travel to the branch  where  Santander says the sale took place. They are clear that this application  
was made by post.
Ive thought about what theyve said but I want to say that whichever channel of sale - whether it was 
a sale by post or in branch it doesnt make a difference to my decision.  So I dont need to make a 
finding as to whether it was taken out through the post or in branch. It could have been that Mr and 
Ms M and Mr T returned  the required paperwork through the post and they also might have received 
the mortgage offer through the post - that is what they clearly remember  but it doesnt affect my 
decision either  way.
was it an advised sale?
I do need  to think about whether Santander  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Ms M and Mr T. Mr and 
Ms M are again clear that they spoke to no one and that no recommendation  was given. But I am 
going to look at this sale as if Santander  recommended the PPI. That is not to say I havent thought  
about what theyve told me but I say it was a recommended sale because  I think  this is fair to Mr and 
Ms M. As a recommended sale it places  a higher  standard of proof on Santander and it put more  
Ref: DRN89090143responsibility on it for how it sold the policy. This will result in no detriment to Mr and Ms M. As a 
recommended sale this meant that Santander needed to take reasonable steps to make sure the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Ms M and Mr Ts circumstances - that it was right for them.  It also had 
another hurdle  to ensure  that it gave clear enough information so that Mr and Ms M and Mr T could  
make an informed  decision  about  whether  or not they wanted  the PPI. I will look at whether the PPI 
was right for them below.
did Santander  give a fair choice about buying  the PPI?
Before I look at whether or not the PPI was right for them, Santander also needed to give Mr and Ms 
M and Mr T a fair choice about  buying  the policy. So I also need  to consider  whether I think its more 
likely Mr and Ms M and Mr T were given an option  about taking out the PPI or leaving it. Mr and Ms M 
say the forms they were required to complete  signposted them to opt in rather  than opt out. And they 
have told me theyd have been worried  that their mortgage application would be turned down if they 
didnt take the recommended insurance and that their focus was on moving  not on taking out 
insurance. Mr and Ms M are also concerned that including the clause  within the application  form for 
the mortgage was flawed - it was all tied in together and Mr and Ms M have  said that the insurance  
should have been a standalone product presented openly and transparently.
Santander has provided a copy of the mortgage  application completed at the time.  This has been 
completed with Mr and Ms M and Mr Ts personal details, the required  amount of borrowing and there 
are sections about such things as building and contents  insurance which Mr and Ms M and Mr T could 
have chosen or left (although buildings insurance was a requirement of getting  the mortgage it didnt  
have to be taken out with Santander.) if they didnt want it. Section 8 of the form is headed 
Redundancy, Accident and Sickness  Protection. The section says We recommend that your monthly  
mortgage repayments are protected  against  the event  of Redundancy,  Accident and Sickness and 
it goes on to state please tick those applicants who require cover. Mr and Ms M say that the forms 
required them  to opt in. I agree with this point but this doesnt mean that Santander did anything 
wrong here. It means that if Mr and Ms M and Mr T wanted the PPI they had to choose to take out the 
policy. They didnt automatically get the policy without choosing it. In order to buy the PPI Mr and Ms 
M and Mr T had to take steps to apply for the policy. And the paperwork  suggests  that this is what 
they did. They  ticked the box to say only Ms M wanted the PPI and they have all signed and dated  the 
application. So that looks like it is more  likely that they made choices about taking out the PPI in Ms 
Ms name and they knew they could refuse it if they didnt  want  it. Theres also nothing written on the 
form which makes me think its likely they would  have understood they had to take it out in order to 
secure the lending. And although its only a sample  of an application form that Santander has 
provided, I think Mr and Ms M would  likely have to complete  a similar separate  form to apply for the 
PPI. I also think the statements would have set out the cost of the PPI separately  from the mortgage 
repayments. So I cant uphold Mr and Ms M and Mr Ts complaint about this aspect  of the application. 
But Ive gone onto consider  all the other points Mr and Ms M have raised.
was the PPI suitable?
The next step is for me to consider whether the policy was suitable for Ms M  the person  who was 
covered by the policy. I think it was suitable.  I will explain why.
I can see Ms M was eligible for the policy and she was working and in good health  at the time 
she took out the PPI - so I cant say she would have been affected  by any of the main  
limitations or exclusions which could have made it more  difficult to make  a successful claim if 
shed needed  to.
Mr and Ms M have  told me about their financial situation. They say they had three salaries, 
some savings - having  sold their previous home they waited until they found their ideal home  
and were  living with Mr Ms mother for a long time; giving them  an opportunity to save. And 
Ms M had private healthcare  from her employer.  Ms M has also told me that her job was 
secure. All in all they say they didnt need the PPI. But this policy would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Ms M would have received and for longer  than her sick pay lasted. If 
Ref: DRN89090144Ms M couldnt work then their income would  have significantly reduced. I have also taken into 
account that the PPI was in place to cover their mortgage. This was secured over their home  
and the consequences  of not being able to meet the repayments were  serious. I think  on 
balance its more likely  they chose to cover Ms M for the protection it gave  and would have  
offered peace  of mind if they fell into difficulty. Thinking  about  Ms Ms private health 
insurance. This wouldnt  have covered  the same risk as the PPI. It would have covered  
medical expenses. It did not pay out the monthly mortgage expenses  if Ms M couldnt work or 
lost her job. And whilst I acknowledge  that Mr and Ms M had been able to save whilst  they 
were searching for their ideal home, these savings were  likely  to be earmarked for other 
purposes  their new home; if not then they could have used them for other essential living  
costs which they might  have needed if Ms M couldnt work or lost her job. Whilst I accept  that 
Ms M had a secure job circumstances can always change and the insurance  was there in 
place to protect an important asset if things did go wrong. And this PPI paid out for 24 months 
which would likely have  been a good length of time for Mr and Ms M to have some breathing  
space if they fell into difficulty.
At the time the cost of the policy was comparable  with other similar  policies sold and theres  
nothing to make me think it was unaffordable when they took it out.
was the information clear? 
As I explained above,  as well as making  sure it was the right fit for Mr and Ms M and Mr Ts 
circumstances, Santander also had to give clear enough information about the policy, including 
information about its exclusions and limitations  and its cost. Mr and Ms M say that the information  was 
definitely not clear. At no point did they speak to anyone and they werent taken through limitations or 
exclusions and none of the key points were explained. Its possible that not all the information  was as 
clear as it could have  been.  But thats not enough for me to uphold the complaint. I next need to 
decide whether if Mr and Ms M and Mr T had been given more or better information  they would have 
changed their mind  about buying the policy.
would better  or clearer  information have put off Mr and Ms M and Mr T from buying  the PPI?
Looking at everything I cant  say it would have. I say that because even if theyd been given better  
information about the policy exclusions and limitations  I dont think at that time Ms M was affected by 
them - so that wouldnt  have likely changed  their mind about taking it out. And as Ive explained  
above, I think  on balance they chose to take it out knowing they could refuse the PPI. It also looks like 
it was affordable - so for much the same reasons  as Ive found that the policy  was suitable and they 
had a need for the PPI I cant  say theyd have been put off buying  it.
Ive also thought  about  what Mr and Ms M have said about the dates  of the mortgage application and 
when the payments  were taken. The mortgage application was dated December 1991 and the 
payments seemed to start in 1992.  Thats understandable as the mortgage more  likely  began in 1992 
but Mr and Ms M and Mr T would have had to complete  application forms before then in order to 
apply for their mortgage.  So I think the records reflect that the mortgage started in 1992 and thats 
when the PPI payments more likely started. 
Ive also thought  about  what theyve said about other policies which they held with different providers. 
Mr and Ms M have told me that in contrast with Santander these  policies were  reimbursed without 
problems. But it is important to state  that each  case  is decided  entirely on its own merits. What 
applies in one circumstance  will not be applicable in another. So amongst other things but not limited 
to these points, it might  have been  a different type of product, a different  cost, a different application 
procedure and a completely  different set of personal  circumstances which lead to a different 
conclusion.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Ms M but I hope  the reasons  Ive given explain why Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN89090145my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above, Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
I now ask both parties to provide any further information they wish me to consider by 8 April 2019 
before making my final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8909014