K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about problems making  an urgent transfer from his National Westminster  
Bank Plc account.
background
Mr A had some trouble making a transfer from his NatWest account. He wasnt able to do 
that online because  he didnt have a card reader. He said hed been into a branch, and was 
told that they couldnt make the payment for him, using  CHAPS,  because  it was under 
£10,000. He was told to try to use a card reader,  but that didnt work either. 
Mr A was persuaded,  on one of his visits to a NatWest branch trying  to make the payment, 
to change his savings account  type. But the old account closed before the new one was 
opened, and it looked like his money had disappeared. That made  him even more  worried.  
Mr A said that there had been a lot of back and forth about this. He said that he was in the 
middle of buying  a property at the time,  and he was very worried about  having to pay a 
charge because he couldnt  make  payments as they were due. 
NatWest said Mr A had first contacted it on 22 February to say that he hadnt been able to 
make a transfer of £5,000. It told him he couldnt set up payments that large  himself  without  
having a card reader  enabled. NatWest said that wasnt a mistake,  it required an extra level 
of security before it would allow  large transfers  to new payees.
NatWest told Mr A then to go into a branch, and make a CHAPS transfer. But when  he got to 
the branch, they couldnt make the transfer  for him. NatWest said that was a mistake. 
NatWest gave Mr A a card reader, and told him he could  watch  an online video to set that up 
at home,  then make the payment. But the card reader  he was given was always  going  to 
take 48 hours to enable,  and the branch didnt tell Mr A that. When  Mr A rang to make a 
complaint, the call handler hung  up on him.
NatWest understood  Mr A had spent a considerable amount  of time in branch trying  to sort 
this out, which hed said meant a long drive from where he works. And there had been some  
confusion about  when his savings account was going to close, which  meant Mr A visited the 
branch again when  a savings account unexpectedly disappeared from his online banking.  It 
has discussed with Mr A the costs that he said hed run up doing that. 
NatWest sent us call recordings where  this problem was discussed with Mr A. It said it had 
spoken to a different bank, and that bank had already  reimbursed him for his travel costs.  
But Mr A said that those were separate issues, done on separate days. 
NatWest said that it had paid Mr A £30 when it first looked into his complaint. It then looked 
again, and offered him a further £150. It thought  that total amount was fair.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. He said the sort of transaction 
that Mr A was trying to do did need extra security. So Mr A needed a working card reader.  
Our investigator thought NatWest had provided  poor service.  But he didnt  think  that caused 
the problem with the transfer. The problem happened because  Mr A didnt have a card 
reader enabled.  So our investigator thought NatWests offer was fair.
Ref: DRN83642992Mr A didnt agree. He said hed appreciate it if at least the direct costs hed incurred because  
of what NatWest did were returned  to him. Hes worked that out on a phone  call with 
NatWest, and the costs  he was seeking  then seem  to have been £267.15 for all of his travel, 
parking, calls and time. Mr A also wanted the extra cost for delayed completion of his 
housing purchase,  plus compensation for the inconvenience. Hes since  asked us just to 
consider compensation and the costs to him, but not this fine. 
Because Mr A didnt  agree  with our investigator, this case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I didnt think that it was a mistake  by NatWest that caused the initial  delay in making this 
payment. NatWest requires an extra level of security when a customer  wants to set up a 
new payee and make a large transfer to them. I thought that was a fair and reasonable 
way for NatWest to have managed  this payment, and I didnt think it was NatWests fault 
that Mr A didnt have  a working  card reader when he first tried to make the payment. 
-Mr A was then advised  to go to a branch, to make the transfer. He said NatWest told him 
it couldnt make a transfer for him, because the amount was too small.  We asked  
NatWest about this, and it said it could make  the transfer  Mr A wanted by CHAPS.  It 
wasnt too small. NatWest didnt  think Mr A wouldve been told that it was. And its since 
offered other possible reasons why it might  not have made this transfer, essentially 
suggesting either that Mr A didnt want to make  a CHAPS  transfer, he didnt want to pay 
for it, or that he didnt have the right ID with him to make  the transfer. 
-These more recent explanations didnt seem  very likely  to me. Mr A was very concerned 
about a potentially large fine he might  have to pay if he didnt make  the transfer, and he 
went into the branch  repeatedly to try to sort the problem out. I didnt think it was likely 
that Mr A wouldve returned to the branch twice, after this first visit, if hed known he 
could just pay for the transfer to be done  for him. So I thought it was more  likely that Mr 
A was told that he couldnt use CHAPS to make  this transfer,  because  the amount was 
too small. That advice was wrong.  If Mr A had been given  the correct advice, his problem 
wouldve been sorted out much  faster, and probably on the first visit.
-Mr As first visit to the branch was on a Friday. He was given a card reader, and told he 
could use that to make the transfer.  We knew this wouldnt work, because  those readers 
take 48 hours to activate. So Mr A went back on Saturday, and tried to solve  the problem 
again. While he was in the branch he agreed to change his account  type.  
-Mr A then felt he had to go back to that branch again, because  his old savings  account  
disappeared from internet banking on Monday before the second one appeared. Mr A 
told us that he specifically checked  this wouldnt happen, when agreeing to the change  of 
account, because  he needed to access his money. Because of the efforts Mr A had put 
into making this transfer, and the concerns about  it hed already raised, I thought it was 
likely Mr A did seek that reassurance.  I didnt think hed have agreed  to change his 
account at this time if he hadnt been given it. So I thought  it was likely to be NatWests 
fault that he then made a third trip to a branch, to sort this out.
Ref: DRN83642993-Mr A shouldnt  have had to make  repeated  trips to the branch to sort these problems out. 
And I thought  that the reason that he had to make  the second  and third trips was 
because NatWest let him down, and gave him poor advice. So I said Id take that into 
account when  I considered compensation. 
-But I didnt agree with Mr A that it would be fair and reasonable to meet his direct costs  
for travel and time in full. Thats  because on Friday and Monday he chose to travel from 
his work  location  to a branch close to his home. There did appear to be other  branches  
closer to his work. I thought that any branch couldve dealt with the queries he was 
raising, so I didnt think I could reasonably ask NatWest to meet these  travel  costs in full.
-But, as Id already  said, Mr A clearly received poor service in the branch. He was 
repeatedly told that he should  be able to make  payments, and advice he was given was 
wrong. This took up a lot of his time,  and caused him a lot of stress. And although he 
didnt have to travel quite  as far as he did, I thought that two of the three branch visits 
were caused by NatWests mistakes. On top of this, he had the stress of thinking  that his 
savings had been lost. I thought the right amount would be a little more  than our 
investigator suggested. I thought a total payment  £250 would be a fair and reasonable 
outcome for that. NatWest  could  count towards that any compensation it had already 
paid to Mr A.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr A said that he was happy with the decision,  and that the award could be credited to his 
NatWest account. NatWest didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind. So Ill now 
make the award  I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must  pay Mr A a total of £250  in 
compensation. It can count towards that any compensation  it has already paid to Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8364299