K821x#15Complaint
Mr G complains Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
Background
Mr G took one running credit account and then 6 instalment loans. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan number loan amount received dateactual repayment  
date
1* £500 20/09/2013 19/12/2014
2 £250 06/01/2015 29/01/2015
3 £100 12/01/2015 29/01/2015
4 £400 02/02/2015 26/02/2015
5 £400 01/03/2015 28/03/2015
6 £400 30/03/2015 30/04/2015
7 £400 01/05/2015 06/05/2015
* Loan one was a running credit facility (RCF) and this is different to the instalment loans that 
Mr G took afterwards. 
The RCF allows a consumer to either request  funds  up to their agreed  credit limit in one go 
or take multiple  drawdowns up to their limit. Mr G had a credit limit of £500.  Each  drawdown 
could be repaid via five monthly instalments. 
In our latest  assessment an adjudicator didnt think it was wrong to have granted the RCF.  
But he thought  by the eleventh drawdown  in just over four months, that it was likely Mr G 
had become reliant on the RCF drawdown facility and was struggling to make  repayments 
without borrowing again. So, he said Sunny shouldnt have allowed any drawdowns on the 
RCF from 4 February 2014. This adjudicator also thought loans 2 to 7 shouldnt have been  
given. 
It appears Mr G accepts  our latest adjudicators assessment.  Sunny  hasnt  responded to the 
latest assessment.   But, it has already accepted that something  may have gone wrong when  
it provided loans  6 and 7, so it agreed  to refund  interest  on these loans together  with 8% 
simple interest. It also agreed to update  the credit file in line with the adjudicators 
recommendation.
My Findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
Ref: DRN84279072consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr G appears  to have accepted the latest adjudicators findings and Sunny has only 
disagreed with what the second adjudicator has said about the lending  from 4 February 2014 
(when Mr G took his eleventh drawdown under the RCF) until 1 March  2015 (loan 5). It 
seems therefore that the other  lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think  that I need  to 
make a finding about it. 
So instead,  this decision will focus on whether Sunny  did anything wrong when it granted the 
RCFs drawdowns from 4 February 2014  and the first four instalment loans. But I have kept 
the other lending in mind when thinking  about the overall lending  relationship  between  
Sunny and Mr G. 
But to be clear, Mr G wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay  all of what he 
borrowed plus the interest due when he next got paid. He was given a RCF where there was 
an expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within  a period  of five 
months. So overall, I think that this means  the checks Sunny  carried  out had to provide 
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Mr G would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period  of time.
Ref: DRN84279073I think it would be helpful for me to explain that Sunny gave Mr G this facility when it was 
regulated by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). The OFT had issued guidance  on this type of 
lending and what it says should be expected from lenders after the facility was granted.
Section 2.2 of the General Principles  of Fair Business Practice section of the OFT 
guidance says:  creditors should monitor the borrowers repayment record during the course 
of the credit  agreement, offering assistance  where borrowers appear to be experiencing 
financial difficulty.
And it wasnt enough for Sunny  to just assess the lending  based on what it knew when the 
RCF had initially been approved in September 2013. It also needed  to monitor  how Mr G 
was using the facility - and then step in and provide help when or if it could see Mr G was or 
was likely having financial difficulties.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G had a credit limit under the RCF of £500.  In the first few months  he didnt drawdown 
the full credit limit although, on a monthly  basis, he was borrowing increasing amounts (£150 
in September  2013, £175 in October  2013  and then £225 in November 2013). He made 
some regular payments  during this period and repaid the outstanding balance in full twice. 
Mr G did though borrow again not long after the balance had been repaid. 
When Mr G repaid the balance in full on 25 November 2013, he subsequently drew down the 
full credit limit of £500 on 19 December 2013.  Four days later, on 23 December 2013 Mr G 
again repaid the balance in full. He then borrowed a further £300 on 11 January 2014, 
followed by an additional £200 on 20 January 2014.  So his balance  returned to the 
maximum credit limit of the RCF for the second time. Mr G then repaid the balance in full on 
31 January 2014.   
By 4 February 2014, when Mr G borrowed a further £500, it was the eleventh occasion that 
Mr G had used the drawdown  facility  in just over four months. And it was third time he 
borrowed to the maximum  credit limit. I think  Sunny should have been aware by this point 
that he wasnt using  his account  as intended  or making any headway in repaying his loan. 
Indeed, four months into having  the facility, Mr G still owed Sunny the maximum allowed 
under the facility. 
Indeed, what appears  to have happened is that Mr G was needing  to borrow  further from 
Sunny in order to fill a hole in his finances  that was made by making repayments to Sunny. 
And so this isnt a sustainable form of borrowing.
In these circumstances, I dont think Sunny could have reasonably believed that Mr G would 
have been able to repay  drawdowns  on the RCF from 4 February  2014  without any undue  
difficulty or without the need to borrow again.  So I dont think Sunny should have allowed 
any further drawdowns from this date.  Within three  weeks of repaying the RCF,  Sunny  
allowed Mr G to take out an instalment loan. By allowing this loan at this time, Sunny had, in 
effect, allowed  Mr G to continue to draw down  on the running credit  facility in a way, that in 
my opinion was also unsuitable. So I also think it was wrong of Sunny to have provided loan 
two. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr G, to see if there 
was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
Ref: DRN84279074unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And I agree with our adjudicator  that Sunny should 
have realised this at the time it provided  loan 3. I say this because:
By loan 3 Mr G had been indebted to Sunny for almost 16 months. In my view,
Mr Gs loan history  up until this point was a clear  indication  that his underlying  
financial situation didnt seem to be improving; 
Mr G took some  loans shortly after having  repaid  previous ones. For example, loan 2 
was taken just over two weeks  after full repayment of the RCF, loan 4 was taken  four 
days after repaying loans 2 and 3, and loans 5, 6 and 7 were all taken out within  days  
of repayment  of the previous loan.  So Sunny  ought to have realised it was more likely  
than not Mr G, was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole the repayment of his 
previous loans had left in his finances  and that this was indicative of his indebtedness  
not being sustainable;
Mr G was borrowing broadly similar amounts. Instalment loans 4 to 7 were all for 
£400 and whilst loans  2 and 3 were  for different amounts,  the total amount borrowed 
(within seven days of each other) was also £400.  I think its most likely the relatively 
consistent pattern  of the borrowing over the period showed  that Mr G didnt just have 
a short-term cash-flow problem but was needing  to borrow  these sums to fill a hole 
paying previous  loans  had left in his finances,     
Mr Gs lending history was prolonged. Loan 7 was provided around 19 months  after 
his first loan. The amount  of time that Mr G spent  indebted to Sunny meant  that hed 
paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr G lost out when Sunny provided loans 3 to 7 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him
to take expensive credit over an extended  period and;
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Gs
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost
loans.
So, Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint about  his borrowing from 2 February 2014 onwards and 
Sunny should  put things right as detailed below.
Ref: DRN84279075Putting things  right
Considering what  Sunny has already  agreed to do, in order to put things right it should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr G paid on drawdowns on the RCF from
4 February 2014  as well as all interest, fees and charges applied to loans  2 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  on Mr Gs credit file about the RCF from 4 February  
2014 as well as  loan 2;
remove loans 3 to 7 from Mr Gs credit file entirely, this is because the period of time 
Mr G owed Sunny money means that any information  still recorded about these loans 
is adverse. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Gs complaint.  
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr G as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8427907