K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC) failed to achieve a targeted  
return on his investment portfolio, which he believes was mismanaged.
background
Mr T took advice from a third-party adviser to invest £527,210 into an ASC Target Return 
investment portfolio between June and October 2016. Mr T says he was given a concrete 
guarantee on the funds stability due to its product  design that had performed successfully 
over many years. He relied  on this level of assurance,  given  by ASC, about the safety of the 
portfolio. As a result,  Mr T says he believed he would not lose any money. 
Mr T recalled being told that the fund would have  two constituents:  a long-term  strategic fund 
protected from market  fluctuations that would grow at a slower rate and a carefully managed 
smaller, dynamic  fund (the Strategic  Investment Fund  SIA). Mr T became disappointed 
with the performance  of the portfolio. He estimated that within  two years his portfolio reduced  
in value by around  11%. As a result, he transferred £456,686 out in November  2018.  Mr T 
asks ASC to compensate for the losses hes sustained and to reimburse the fees charged  as 
he believes  the fund was mismanaged.
ASC say this was a Terms of Business  relationship, where the instruction to open the
Target Return portfolio was given by Mr Ts adviser.  The adviser selected the target  return
and a model was then agreed with ASC,  targeted to Mr T as a medium risk investor who 
intended to invest  over the longer  term. The overall portfolio was then managed on a 
discretionary basis in line with the risk mandate, with regular reviews and quarterly reports  
being sent to Mr T. Any responsibility for assessing the suitability of this product against  
Mr Ts needs  fell to his independent financial adviser, not ASC, as set out in the proposal 
and welcome letter.
ASC agree that historically the target  return portfolios had performed well and initially  the 
investment was in touching distance  of the target  return. But ASC accept that performance 
became disappointing, especially moving into 2018. ASC maintain that no guarantees were 
given as to performance  and Mr T should  have been  aware  that the value of the investment 
could fluctuate.  ASC say Mr T withdrew £54,000 from the investment and lost around 3.49% 
of the overall value  of the portfolio during the period  in which he was invested. 
ASC say they were  transparent about  the funds performance at the regular review points 
and quarterly reports. Whilst performance was disappointing, overall the portfolio continued 
to be managed within Mr Ts risk profile. In or around August 2018 they took steps  to redress 
the poor performance, taking the decision to change strategies around  the SIA fund.
As to fees, ASC say that they had a single fee and Mr Ts was already considerably 
discounted from 1.37% to 0.875%  as he was a valued customer.  The fees covered research 
and management  and were non-refundable.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He thought ASC hadnt provided any guarantees
as to the level of performance of the portfolio  and highlighted  the information  which  
explained that the value  of the investment could  go down  as well as up. The portfolio was 
held on a discretionary management basis, the reports  provided  showed that the fund was 
managed in line with the objectives of capital growth with the ability  to draw down.
Ref: DRN89175882Mr T disagrees with the view. He maintains that overall the portfolio did not perform in line 
with the target and questions why ASC made sweeping changes in August 2018 if there was 
a robust  investment process, as claimed. Further, he questions the time horizon as he 
recalls that ASC said they should be judged over a three-year period, not longer  term. Mr T 
hoped that the investment target would have been  exceeded but conceded that he could 
have tolerated  losing 10% over the long-term.  Here the losses  occurred too quickly.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to say that I dont underestimate  Mr Ts strength of feeling  about this 
complaint, but its important to explain that I will not be considering  the suitability of the
recommendation to invest and remain  invested  within this portfolio,  which  contained the SIA
fund. Any such complaint lies against  the provider of that advice.
This decision considers  whether Mr T was misled by assurances from ASC, whether  the 
portfolio was managed outside  of the agreed  investment mandate  and whether ASC failed to 
provide the service it shouldve done in terms of managing the portfolio. Its fair to 
acknowledge that there isnt an issue in this complaint around sharing of information  about 
performance of the portfolio or about reviews.  Its agreed that an ASC manager was put in 
place and regular  reviews took place.  Quarterly reports  were provided and Mr T could  
access information about performance  of the portfolio  online.
Ive considered the documents from the time. The client proposal for Mr T set a target  return 
of Libor +4%, the objectives were  capital growth  with the ability  to drawdown. The time 
horizon for the investment was 10 years plus. The level of risk was set at medium  (rather 
than no or low risk),  defined  as:
You are prepared to accept a moderate to significant level of risk over your time horizon to 
achieve your goals.
The records  from the time show that Mr Ts adviser  indicated to ASC that Mr T could afford  a 
5-10% permanent loss on the investment and was not concerned about short-term higher 
volatility as he was prepared to sit it out. Thats consistent with Mr Ts more recent 
concession that he could have tolerated a 10% loss over the longer-term. 
Ive also seen that both the duration  of the investment and the level of risk exposure were 
set out in the original proposal  and a breakdown of the asset classes within  the investment 
was also provided  in the original presentation and quarterly reports, with roughly 16% in 
bonds, 35% in the SIA fund (designed to de-risk the portfolio) and the balance in equities.  
But as Ive already explained at the outset,  I am not considering the suitability of any 
recommendation to invest in this product or whether it met Mr Ts needs. Any concerns 
about these matters and/or assessment of Mr Ts attitude to risk, the time horizon of the 
investment or assessment  of Mr Ts capacity for loss should be addressed to Mr Ts adviser,  
who made the recommendation to invest in the fund and remain  invested.
Ref: DRN89175883The quarterly reports provided show that the objective remained  consistent  as investment for 
capital growth. ASC concede that whilst  the risky assets within  the portfolio produced  
returns, the strategies used to take risk out of the portfolio (in other words those used in the 
SIA fund) did not work as they had done in the past,  which meant losses  were  seen when  
the SIA fund worked against the positive performance of the rest of the portfolio. I think ASC 
have therefore  explained why changes  were made  in 2018.
In my view changing strategies that were unsuccessful  shows  that ASC were  actively  
managing the portfolio. I havent  seen anything to show that the strategies deployed by ASC 
in the SIA fund and the subsequent steps taken  to reduce exposure to that fund in 2018, 
were anything other than the legitimate exercise of commercial  judgement  in managing  a 
fund. The fact that the risk of underperformance  materialised,  does not automatically  mean  
that ASC did anything wrong.  In the absence  of any evidence  that ASC mismanaged the 
portfolio  and the performance  of the portfolio and the SIA fund alone  isnt evidence of this 
 I am unable to say that ASC have  done anything wrong in overall management of the 
portfolio.
And even  if I thought  that ASC had managed  the portfolio above the risk level in the
mandate, I cant fairly say now that Mr T would have done anything  different within  the 
period of investment. Thats because Mr T initially maintained his investment  in the portfolio 
despite unfavourable reports as to its performance.
Ive also noted  that despite Mr Ts assertion that he lost 11% of the funds invested, it 
appears that this fails to factor in the withdrawals made. ASC say that within  the first two 
years the loss was less than 4%, which was in line with the loss tolerance indicated  by Mr 
Ts IFA. 
I understand that Mr T feels the fees paid to ASC should be refunded as the target return 
wasnt met. The fees were set out in the proposal documentation and they were not 
contingent on performance.  So, whilst I empathise  with the situation Mr T has found himself  
in, it isnt fair and reasonable for these to be repaid.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr T but I wont be upholding this complaint  against ASC.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8917588