K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Advantage Insurance Company Limited didnt provide her with a 
renewal quote  for a motor insurance  policy. She thinks that affected other insurers  quotes. 
background
In April 2018 Miss Ps broker  told her Advantage hadnt offered a renewal quote for her car, 
but wasnt able to say why, so Miss P contacted Advantage directly.  She said it didnt reply 
to a letter she sent to it in December 2018  asking for specific  details of its decision and for 
the data it held and had shared about  her.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Ps complaint. Advantage told the investigator it 
didnt hold the details that would show why it didnt provide a renewal quote to Miss P a year 
earlier. It said that the information was commercially  sensitive, so it couldnt have been 
shared with her anyway.  Advantage  said its data protection team had replied to Miss Ps 
letter in January 2019. It said the response  included a link to its privacy notice, which 
explains why it collects data, what data it stores  and who that data is shared with. 
The investigator thought Advantage had shown that it responded to Miss Ps concerns. He 
thought its response  about why it couldnt  explain  the reasons for not offering her a renewal 
quote was reasonable. He said an insurer was entitled not to offer cover to a consumer 
without saying why. He noted that Advantage hadnt  sent Miss P a final response  letter.  But 
he thought the letter  from its data protection  team  covered  most  of her queries. He didnt 
think Advantage should have to pay Miss P compensation.
Miss P insisted that the quotes she got from other insurers were higher  than they should 
have been. She thought that was due to Advantage not offering her a renewal quote. The 
cheapest alternative  quote was three times  the previous premium.  She said the response  
Advantage said it sent to her in January 2019  was in fact a covering letter for a data pack. 
She said the data pack was prepared in reply to a data subject access  request (DSAR) 
shed made.  It was supplied after the Information Commissioners  office (ICO) upheld  her 
complaint about  the brokers data-handling. Miss P asked for a review of her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage isnt obliged  to tell consumers why it doesnt want  to offer them cover. Insurers 
base their decisions on their underwriting criteria, which  are based on many factors  and are 
commercially sensitive.  So we dont think its unreasonable for them to keep that information 
confidential. Insurers normally share sensitive information with us if its available,  but 
Advantage says it isnt and that its not realistic to try to retrieve  it. 
Advantage didnt  respond to Miss Ps complaint by sending her a final response letter.  But in 
the absence of a response from it within eight weeks, Miss P had the right to ask us to look 
into her concerns, which is what she did.
Although Advantage told us it had replied  to Miss Ps concerns, I can see why she thinks  it 
didnt. The letter of 3 January 2019 came from the broker and said it said it was a response  
to her DSAR. Miss P had asked Advantage for details that were already being provided  as 
Ref: DRN82045972part of the DSAR. So to that extent the letter and the data pack should have answered most 
of her concerns. But there was no response to two of her queries. 
The first query was about why Advantage didnt offer Miss P a quote. I think  Advantage has 
now answered that concern in a general  sense  but I think it would have been preferable 
had it done so when Miss P first asked. I dont think its decision  not to offer a quote would 
have mattered much had other insurers offered  Miss P competitive quotes.  As they didnt,  
naturally Miss P thought  the two issues were  connected.
Miss Ps second query was whether Advantages decision could have affected other 
insurers quotes. Recently, we asked it to confirm  whether it had shared its decision with any 
other party. It said it hadnt, so no other insurer would have been aware of it. As I dont think  
theres anything to show that other  insurers knew about Advantages decision, their high 
quotes (or their failure to quote)  cant be connected  to it.  
Miss P had one fault claim during the last policy year. She doesnt  have any no claims 
discount. All insurers are likely to have  taken those factors  and many  others  - into account 
before deciding what quote  (if any) to offer Miss P. I dont think theres  anything  to show  that 
Advantage influenced other insurers decisions.  I do think it could have responded better to 
Miss Ps concerns. But in my opinion,  it hasnt done  anything that would justify  it being 
required to pay her compensation. So although  I can see why Miss P is so unhappy about 
the situation, I cant uphold her complaint  against  Advantage.          
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8204597