K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) has refused to settle a claim under the 
unrecovered court  awards  section of her household  insurance  policy.
background
The claim arose because  Mrs S engaged a firm (which Ill call A) to do work on her roof  
but A failed  to carry out an effective repair, and caused additional damage which led to water  
entering her property. She took legal action  against A and obtained a court judgment.
A did not pay the judgment, and upon  taking  legal advice in 2018,  Mrs S approached  Aviva 
to claim on her buildings  and contents  insurance  since it includes a clause which says it 
will, under  some circumstances, pay the cost of court judgments awarded to the 
policyholder.
Aviva considered the claim  but turned it down. It said Mrs Ss circumstances didnt  qualify for 
cover under the policy terms  because it wouldnt have covered her because  the policy  
doesnt cover for a dispute during contractual repair works.  
Mrs S complained to Aviva. Aviva  didnt uphold the complaint. It said the purpose of the 
policy is to cover Mrs S in the event that a person claimed damages against her. Aviva 
accepted it hadnt handled  Mrs Ss complaint well and paid her £300. 
Mrs Ss legal advisor felt this was a misreading of the policy,  and the complaint was referred  
to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He felt 
the term quite clearly set out that the policy would pay costs  which  you have been awarded 
by a court.  He noted that Aviva had continued  to repeat essentially the same explanation of 
its stance, and he considered that the claim should  be payable.
Aviva disagreed, without  submitting any further argument or clarification  as to its position, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
Because I reached  a different outcome to our investigator, I asked Mrs S for any further  
comments she or her legal advisor might have. Mrs S said she felt the clause could be 
interpreted either way, and so on balance Aviva should accept her claim.  
Mrs S also felt the ambiguity of the terms and conditions, and Avivas failure to properly 
explain them  to her or our investigator, was something Aviva should take responsibility for. 
She said the wording  should be clear so that people can understand what theyre covered 
for.  
Mrs Ss legal advisor still thought our interpretation of the terms and conditions  was wrong. 
She wanted to see an example of when  the policy would apply. She said the policy  is 
designed so Mrs S has indemnity from any liability that rests  with her as an owner/occupier 
and she felt this would  include claiming for an unsatisfied county court  judgment. 
Ref: DRN87666682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not minded to uphold  
it. I realise that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs S, but I will explain my reasons.
This complaint is a matter of the correct interpretation of the policy wording. The 
unrecovered court  awards  section which Mrs S seeks  to claim on says:  
We will pay court awards up to the amount shown on your schedule which  you have been 
awarded by a court in the United Kingdom, Channel  Islands or Isle of Man and which still 
have not been paid for three months  after the courts decision where:
a) Your  liability  as
 occupier (not as owner) of the home and its land;
 occupier of another private accommodation for up to 30 days in any period of 
insurance;
 in a personal capacity  (not as occupier  or owner of any building or land);
under this policy would have applied  if the award  had been made  against  you;
b) The event that led to the court proceedings happened in the United Kingdom, Channel  
Islands or Isle of Man during  the period of insurance; and
c) There  is not an appeal waiting to be heard.
In this case, Mrs S has received an order making  an award by a court  in the 
United Kingdom,  for an event which  occurred  in the United Kingdom. It wasnt  satisfied 
within three months of the court order. Im not aware  of any appeal,  and Aviva hasnt 
suggested that it didnt cover  Mrs S at the time A carried  out the work on her roof.
The key condition in this complaint is section a), which  requires that Your  liability  under 
this policy  would have  applied if the award  had been  made  against  you. 
In other  words, the unrecovered court awards section will only cover  court  awards for certain 
things. Specifically, it only applies to awards  of the kind which are also listed  under a 
separate section  of the policy, which covers Mrs S if a court orders her to pay someone else.
This section  is found two pages earlier in the policy, titled Occupier's,  personal  and 
employer's liability. It says:
We will cover your  legal liability to pay damages  and claimants  costs  and expenses for:
 as occupier  (not as owner)  of the home and its land; or
 as occupier  of another private accommodation for up to 30 days in any period of 
insurance; or
 in a personal capacity  (not as occupier  or owner of any building or land);  or
 as employer  of a domestic employee."
It goes on to list a number of specific exceptions to this. Among these, the policy  says 
Mrs S wont  be covered for liabilities to other  people in connection  with: 
Ref: DRN87666683any agreement except to the extent that you would  have  been liable without the 
agreement; and
any trade, business or profession.
So I need to consider whether Mrs Ss claim against  the roofer  falls within these  terms. 
Unfortunately, I dont think it does. Her claim didnt arise out of A occupying a property, and 
she was not As domestic employee.  Her claim might be considered  against  A in a 
personal capacity  but the exclusions Ive quoted mean that the cover doesnt apply for 
breaches of contract  alone, or for actions carried out in connection with a trade, business or 
profession. Im satisfied  that roofing work falls into this category.
In other  words, Aviva covered Mrs S for certain  legal liabilities to other people  - but carrying  
out defective roofing work wouldnt fall within the scope of that cover.  So by the same token 
her claim doesnt meet the requirements under part a) of the unrecovered  court  awards  
section.
To put this in simple terms, if a person had an accident whilst on Mrs Ss property  and was 
awarded damages for that, then Mrs S could claim back the award via her policy.  And if the 
situation was reversed and Mrs S had an accident on another persons property for which 
damages remained unpaid, then she could claim for those damages under her policy.  Both 
of these scenarios  would still require the above terms to be met in order  for the claim to be 
successful.    
I can understand why the wording of the policy could lead to some  confusion,  and can see 
why Mrs S thinks  Avivas treated her unfairly. But I dont  think  Avivas interpretation is wrong 
or that it has two meanings. Its disappointing  that Aviva hasnt been  able to provide a 
clearer explanation  of its reasoning despite a number of requests from Mrs S and our 
service. But Im satisfied that its decision to turn down the claim is based on a correct 
reading of the policy, and is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Aviva accepts that it couldve handled Mrs Ss complaint better  and has paid her £300. This 
seems fair in the circumstances and is in line with what wed expect. So I wont be asking 
Aviva to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Anna Jackson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8766668