K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold him a packaged  bank 
account, called a 123 account.  
Mr M paid a monthly fee for the 123 account and received several potential benefits  in 
return. He thinks  that Santander should  refund him the fees he paid and add interest. 
background
Mr M has been a customer of Santander for quite a long time. Santander has told us that he 
opened a fee-free account  in August 2006 and that it sold him the 123 account in July 2014. 
I think this information  from Santander is reliable and I have taken  it to be accurate. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into the complaint and didnt recommend that 
Santander should give Mr M any money back. Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make  a 
final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me to decide  what to do about this case, and Ive decided  not 
to uphold it. Ill explain why below. But first, as I understand that during  our investigation into 
this complaint Mr M has had significant  health problems, I would like to express my 
sympathy for this and to send him my best wishes for a good recovery. 
When Santander sold the 123 account  to Mr M, the monthly fee was £2 per month, although  
it has risen since.  If customers met certain  conditions (such as paying a minimum amount  
into the account and paying  out at least two direct debits each month),  then in return for the 
fee, Santander would pay them more interest  on their account  balance than it usually offered 
to customers with fee-free  accounts.  It would also give them partial refunds (known  as 
cashback) on some types  of domestic  bill. Depending  on how customers used the 123 
account, they could receive  more in interest and cashback than they paid in fees. 
Mr M has made a single and very clear point  in his complaint. Hes told us that Santander 
told him about the benefits of the 123 account, but not about the fees.  Hes said that he 
went to the counter in the bank and was told to join 123 and pay (his) bills by direct debit to 
get cash back. (He) wasnt told about  the fees.  If Santander did fail in this way, then it would 
have been unfair to Mr M. 
Santander has agreed that it sold the 123 account  to Mr M during  a discussion in one of its 
branches but has said that it told him about  the benefits and the fee. So, it thinks  it treated 
him fairly. 
There are no detailed  records  or notes from the discussion, which means I cant  tell for sure 
what Santander said, or didnt say, to Mr M during the conversation.  So, to work  out what  is 
most likely to have happened, Ive looked into everything  that Mr M and Santander  have told 
us or sent us about the complaint,  including all the circumstances from the time. To me, 
there seem to be three  main factors: 
Ref: DRN80798822Firstly, when Santander sold the 123 account  to Mr M, he had already held a fee-free 
account (with none of the potential benefits  of the 123 account)  for around eight years;  so, it 
seems unlikely to me that Santander  could  have presented the benefits  of the 123 account 
as being free of charge.  I doubt that this would have seemed credible. 
Secondly, the monthly fees would appear on Mr Ms bank  statements, so I doubt that 
Santander would have tried to hide them or ignore them during the discussion,  as they would 
have soon become  visible  to Mr M. 
Thirdly, Santander  has looked into the way Mr M used the 123 account and has told us that 
he set up the direct  debits  and usually paid in sufficient money to qualify for the benefits. I 
accept Santanders  evidence about  this; so, it seems highly likely that the discussion (or any 
written material  that Santander  may have given to Mr M) was quite detailed.  I doubt that 
Santander would have left out information about the fees when it seems to have told him 
about the other important details. 
Taking these factors  into account, I thinks its highly likely  the Santander did tell Mr M about  
the fees as well as the benefits  of the 123 account,  although I fully accept that Mr M may no 
longer remember this and has given us his honest  account of what he recalls. 
As well as telling  Mr M about  the fees and the benefits of the 123 account, I would also have 
expected Santander to give him a choice of buying  it or keeping his fee-free account. There  
doesnt seem to be any dispute that Santander did this, Indeed,  it has told us that Mr M 
continued to hold a fee-free account  alongside  the 123 account. 
So, in summary,  although  I cant be certain  that Santander got everything right for Mr M 
when it sold him the 123 account, I think it probably told him about the fees and the benefits  
of the account  and gave  him a choice about buying it. I dont think  it mis-sold  the 123 
account to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about  Santander  
UK Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2021.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8079882