K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs M says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2002 it was sold in 
the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  
but FICL  has provided a copy of Mrs Ms store card application form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI that Mrs M signed separately from agreeing to the 
card to take the policy. As Mrs M was agreeing  to an important financial commitment I would 
have expected her to have read over the form before signing in agreement  with it. So I think 
its likely  FICL made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Mrs M has told us she was entitled to sick pay from her employer, she had some 
savings, and she could  have relied on her partner to help her make the repayments if she 
wasnt able to. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition  to Mrs Ms sick pay and for longer 
than she would have  received full pay, it would also have allowed Mrs M to keep  her savings 
in place to be used towards  other  essential  expenses. And while Mrs Ms partner would have 
wanted to help, their ability to do so would have been dependent  on their circumstances at 
the time,  which could  have changed.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
Ref: DRN85430442for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Mrs M has also told us that she wouldnt have taken the PPI and its likely  she was simply 
told where to sign on the agreement. But as I said above I cant  be sure what was said at the 
time. And I think the agreement was clear  and would have expected Mrs M to check  the 
details before signing in agreement with the information. So these points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8543044