K820x#14The complaint  
Mrs Bs complaint is about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement  
with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS).
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties so I wont  repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the adjudicator for these reasons:
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
the relevant  law says,  amongst other things, that the car should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MBFS,  who are also the supplier 
of the car, are responsible. The forensic  investigation concluded that there  was no 
evidence of a latent  defect so it didnt support the view that there was a fault with 
the car when  supplied  that had resulted in the suspension arm subsequently failing;
the forensic report went further and suggested the damage to the suspension arm 
that led to it breaking was caused  by traumatic bending due to an impact. This, 
again, doesnt support the view that there  was a fault with the car when it was 
supplied: the point at which MBFS were responsible for its quality;
the independent inspector thought the damage had been caused  by a moderate  
blow;
the Huddersfield  garage has explained that they would have no way of knowing if the 
damage would have been caused  by an impact or by an inherent defect and they 
therefore dont  agree that they told Mrs B the damage was due to a defect;
I think the car insurance  company misinterpreted the engineers  report  when advising 
Mrs B in a phone call that the accident was caused by a manufacturing fault. The 
actual engineers reports dont say that;
Im not persuaded by the comments of a Mr H on 26 May 2019. Whilst I understand 
that he suggests the damage was excessive  for an impact  of that nature, and that he 
suggests he has some experience in car repairs, I find the significant expertise of the 
forensic examiner more persuasive and his comments more comprehensive.
So Im persuaded  by the expert opinions that its most  likely  the damage  to the car Mrs B 
was hiring was caused by an impact and wasnt due to any fault that was present or 
developing when  the car was supplied to her.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN85033552My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8503355