K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold them 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) with their mortgage.
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time they were sold an 
MPPI policy to protect their mortgage  payments. The policy  was taken in Mr Ss name only 
and wouldve covered his repayments  if he was unable to work  due to accident or sickness  
or if he lost his job. A successful claim on the policy  wouldve covered repayments for up to 
12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  the policy  wouldve  
been presented  as optional and that it wouldve  provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs S disagree, they say they didnt need  the policy.  
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Mr and Mrs S were  sold the policy during a meeting. Halifax had to make it clear the policy 
was optional and that Mr and Mrs S chose to take it. Mr and Mrs S say this wasnt  done  but 
they havent given much detail about  why they thought this, which I think is understandable 
as the policy  was sold a while ago. So to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what 
the documents from the time show.
Halifax has given us a copy of the quote  pack it says was sent to Mr and Mrs S before the 
mortgage was taken out. Within the pack is a letter  thanking Mr S for choosing Halifax 
MPPI, a demands and needs statement and quote outlining  the cost for MPPI.
The information recorded in these documents suggests that Mr and Mrs S spent some time 
discussing their circumstances and whether they wished to arrange  cover to protect their 
mortgage payments.  Within the demands  and needs document it recommends MPPI  for Mr 
S but not Mrs S. And I note this recommendation was followed as protection was taken only 
to cover Mr S. 
I think its likely Mr and Mrs S wouldve received and read the quote  pack.  I think if there 
hadnt been any discussion about  MPPI and Mr and Mrs S hadnt agreed to take the policy 
they wouldve  questioned why they received a quote for it.
Halifax have also given  us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage offer and key facts illustration. 
I can see under the section headed  Insurance in both documents it says they do not need 
to take out any insurance through Halifax. Just below this is the heading Optional 
Ref: DRN83059102insurance and it lists the insurance and monthly  cost of the MPPI Mr and Mrs S have 
chosen to take out. 
I think these documents  present MPPI as optional and I think given the importance of the 
financial commitment Mr and Mrs S were making  they wouldve  read these documents and 
understood they had a choice in taking out MPPI. And I think  only Mr S was covered by 
MPPI because that was the level of cover  Mr and Mrs S selected to take based  on what was 
recommended to them.
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the MPPI.  What this means  is that Halifax not only 
had to provide  information about MPPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading way so that Mr and 
Mrs S could make an informed choice about  buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it 
was to recommend  MPPI that the policy was suitable to their needs  and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think  the policy overall  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible  for the policy  and it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled to a good level of sick pay but they 
had no other means they could rely on if he couldnt work. A successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs S in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.  
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. 
And if they decided  they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs S information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out.
I can see the cost of the policy  was clear from the quote. But I dont know  if Halifax  gave all 
the proper information as it shouldve.  But even if there were problems with the information 
and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable  and based on what Mr and 
Mrs S have told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out 
the MPPI  policy given  the proper information. 
This means  Mr and Mrs S arent  worse  off as a result of any wrong  doing  by Halifax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint against Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN83059103Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8305910