K822xcomplaint
Mr C complained that Fleet Street  Financial Limited (Fleet Street) said they were obliged  by 
the industry regulator to assess his financial position  when he wanted to draw  money  from 
his pension. Also that a charge of £500 would be incurred for so doing. In addition,  Mr C said 
Fleet Street failed  to sufficiently research annuities,  and had he opted for one couldve been  
disadvantaged.
background
In December 2015, Mr C agreed to receive  Fleet Street's 'Olive' service. This service  
provided for a yearly review meeting. If ad hoc advice outside  of the yearly meeting was 
required, additional fees would be incurred.
In October  2016, Mr C corresponded with his adviser as part of a review  of his finances.  
Mr C had two personal  pensions, one with a company I will call S and the other a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) with a company I will call B.
The S plan had a guaranteed  annuity  rate which would be available  from May 2017. In 
March 2017, Fleet Street asked Mr C to complete a questionnaire so they could obtain  
enhanced annuity quotations. In a further  email, Fleet Street  said if Mr C wanted  them  to 
assess the alternative annuities a charge based  on an hourly  rate would apply.
Mr C queried why the fee hadnt been explained at the outset and went  on to query making 
withdrawals via income drawdown. Fleet  Street  said if Mr C were to make  a withdrawal from 
his pension outside of an annual review,  there  would be an additional charge.
Mr C complained to Fleet  Street about the potential charges  for making  an income  
withdrawal. He said he needed to make a transaction and didnt need  the advisory firm to tell 
him whether it was in his interests. In addition, Mr C said Fleet Street  didnt provide 
quotations from a number of firms for the enhanced annuities;  he had been able to do so 
independently himself and didnt understand why Fleet Street  said they couldnt obtain all of 
the quotes.
Fleet Street agreed that it shouldve followed up all of the requests  for annuity quotes and 
accepted it had failed to provide a sufficient service.
In relation to charging a fee for income withdrawals arranged outside  of an annual  review, it 
said it wouldnt look to transact on an execution only basis  and therefore  would provide 
advice which  incurred  additional costs.
An adjudicator reviewed Mr Cs complaint. He said compensation of £200 for the poor 
service when researching  annuities was appropriate. Mr C had opted for income drawdown 
so no financial loss had been incurred.
In relation to charging a fee for making income withdrawals  outside of an annual review;  
selling a pension  investment is a regulated activity and it would be up to Fleet Street to 
decide whether  they would provide an execution only service or an advised service. As Fleet 
Street said they would provide an advised service,  they had an obligation to give suitable 
advice. This service would incur  an additional cost as outlined in the agreement  between 
Mr C and Fleet Street.
Ref: DRN85703352Mr C disagreed and so the complaint  has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I would add that have read the 
voluminous correspondence provided by both Mr C and Fleet  Street and I trust neither party 
will take it as a disservice if I limit my decision to the two key issues.
Mr C has raised  concerns about whether  Fleet Street adheres to regulatory standards and is 
fit to operate.  It is the role of the industry  regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA),  to 
assess whether an authorised firm meets their requirements and not this service.  We dont 
supervise, fine or punish businesses. Our role is to look into individual complaints about 
financial businesses.
Therefore I will focus on the circumstances  of Mr Cs complaints. In the main, Mr C 
confirmed he has two complaints. The first is about whether Fleet Street  is required to 
charge him for advice  when he wants to make a withdrawal from his pension plan. The 
second is how Fleet Street researched the annuity  market as he approached the time when 
he was likely to take benefits from his pension.
Looking at the first complaint, Mr Cs concerns are that Fleet Streets  role had evolved from 
being a financial  adviser to a financial controller, essentially restricting Mr Cs access to his 
own pension  benefits.
On 20 May 2017, Fleet Street wrote to Mr C stating: In short, there  is no charge if setting up 
a regular payment  or a lump  sum following an annual review.  This is because we would be 
undertaking a full review anyway and to set up such a payment would not require much 
additional work.
If looking to take further monies out (either by way of a lump  sum or an increase to the 
regular monthly sum) this would cost £500.  This is because we are required to review  
various aspects of your joint situation at the time (the FCA require us to ensure people are 
not compromising  their long term affordability by raiding funds too early).
Mr C has explained he spoke with the FCA and they confirmed to him there  was no 
regulatory requirement for Fleet Street to levy a charge when he wanted to draw  benefits 
from this pension.
In a further reply  to Mr C, Fleet Street said they would be providing an advised  service and 
not an execution  only service when Mr C wanted  to make a withdrawal. So I dont interpret 
Fleet Streets position as them having to provide the advised service  and impose a charge 
as a regulatory requirement.
In my view Fleet Street were saying an income withdrawal would be conducted on an 
advised basis. When giving advice Fleet Street  have a regulatory obligation to provide 
suitable advice.  To do this they would need to confirm certain information and assess Mr Cs 
circumstances. Much of this work would be carried out at a yearly review which Mr C pays  
for. Therefore no additional charge would be levied at that time or if the withdrawal was to be 
made shortly thereafter. 
Ref: DRN85703353However, outside of the yearly review, Fleet  Street would need to carry out another 
assessment to be satisfied as to the suitability  of the transaction. It is a matter of commercial 
discretion as to whether Fleet Street would look to charge for the extra work it carries out.
Fleet Street had offered  to switch Mr Cs pension to a provider who would deal with him on 
an execution only basis and avoid the advisory charges which Fleet  Street said it would 
charge. I think this was a reasonable  offer to find an alternative solution to Mr Cs needs. In 
conclusion, on this issue I think there has been some confusion  and while Fleet Street might  
have been a little clearer in its emails  I dont think it sought to deliberately mislead  Mr C.
In relation to the second aspect of the complaint, Fleet  Street has said it had fewer staff at 
that time which caused service which was below its usual standard.  The evidence provided 
shows it attempted to contact a number of annuity providers but didnt follow  up the initial 
requests where  a failed email delivery message was received. The delay in providing  the 
annuity quotes caused frustration and upset to Mr C. I have also noted a number of earlier  
delays for which  the business apologised.
However, Mr C has explained that he decided not to go down the route  of purchasing  an 
annuity. As a result  he hadnt suffered a financial loss. Mr C has also confirmed that no loss 
had been incurred. Whilst a delay couldve caused  a loss if he opted for annuity,  this is not 
the case. So I think it is right for Fleet Street  to pay redress for the upset  caused  and I 
believe the sum of £200 is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and I direct Fleet Street  Financial 
Limited to pay Mr C of £200, if not already paid, for the trouble  and upset caused  by the poor 
level of service in researching the annuities.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr C either  to accept or reject  my decision before 
27 April 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8570335