K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Mrs R says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
Mrs R opened a store card account in a shop in March 1995.  In July 1997  a PPI policy was 
added to the account.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Rs card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she was unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Rs representatives have said the policy was added  to her account without it being 
discussed with her. FICLs records show that the policy  was sold over the phone. It 
hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone  call, but I dont  think thats 
unreasonable, given that this was so long ago. Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive I need to decide  what I thinks most likely to have happened, based  on the 
information I have.
I think its likely,  on balance,  that the PPI was sold to Mrs R over the phone,  as FICLs 
records say it was. I dont know what was said to Mrs R about the PPI. But at the point 
when she took it out, shed already had her store card account for more  than two years. 
So I think its unlikely  shed have thought  that the cover was compulsory.  Whats  more, 
based on what we know about  how FICL sold these  policies  at around this time and 
everything weve seen in the past,  I think its more  likely than not that FICL would have 
made it clear  during the phone call that PPI was optional, and Mrs R would have been 
asked to agree to the cover if she wanted  it. So overall, I think  she decided to take out 
the cover, knowing that she didnt have to.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R. So it didnt have to check that it was right for 
her. It was for Mrs R to decide  whether to take the cover, knowing what  other means 
shed have had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was unable to work. 
But FICL did have a responsibility to give Mrs R clear  enough  information  to enable her 
to decide whether the policy  was right for her.
Ref: DRN81200972Mrs Rs told us that she was working as a self-employed administrator in a business 
which she owned with her husband. She believes that this made  the policy unsuitable  for 
her. Mrs Rs representatives say the policy wouldnt have paid out if Mrs R had stopped  
trading temporarily.  And they say that this means that shed have had to stop trading 
permanently, and would never  have been able to operate  as a self-employed  
administrator again.
Theyve also said that the policy wouldnt  have  covered a sickness claim made  by Mrs R 
if shed helped the business  in any way. They say that this means  that even if she took 
so much as a phone  call about  the business,  shed have been ineligible  to claim. And 
theyve pointed out that its highly  unlikely that shed have done no work at all even  if 
shed been sick, as she worked from home.
Ive thought carefully about the comments Mrs R and her representatives have made. 
And I acknowledge that weve seen some  policies that make it more difficult  for self-
employed people to make a successful claim.  But I dont  accept that that was the case 
here.
The policy document provides that for a self-employed policy  holder to make  a claim for 
unemployment, their business must have stopped trading and/or be in the process  of 
being wound up. So as long as the business had stopped trading  for example 
because Mrs R and her husband couldnt  find enough work to meet their normal  day-to-
day expenses   Im satisfied that Mrs R would  have been able to claim for 
unemployment. 
Its true that in a separate  section, containing  exclusions, the policy excludes claims from 
self-employed people if their business  temporarily stops trading. But Im satisfied that 
that was to prevent  claims  where the policyholder had decided  to stop their business  for 
a short  time, with the intention  of continuing in business  not situations in which theyd 
decided not to carry on with their business because  it was uneconomic  for them  to do so. 
Overall, I dont think the exclusion was onerous, or made  it significantly harder for a self-
employed person to claim than it would have been for an employee. 
I dont  accept that Mrs R would  never  have been able to work  as a self-employed 
administrator again to be eligible to claim.  The reference was to the business stopping  
trading. That would,  in my view, have had no effect on her potential to work in a similar  
role in other  businesses in the future.
Nor do I accept that Mrs R would have been unable  to claim for sickness  under the 
policy if she did even  a minimal amount of work. Its true that, on the face of it, the way 
the provision  was worded  makes it appear  that it would  have made it hard for Mrs R to 
make a successful  claim  under the policy if she was sick or injured. But based on what  
we know about  how these  terms were normally applied, I dont think  it would have made 
it difficult for Mrs R to make  a successful claim in practice.
Ref: DRN81200973Mrs Rs representatives have added that if shed been off sick, her income wouldnt have 
been affected, as her husband would have continued to work. But she would have 
known how the business  would be likely to operate in those circumstances when she 
decided to take the PPI cover. And it looks as if she thought the cover would have been 
useful to her. Moreover,  I accept that if Mrs R had been off work for a short period, it 
might not have  had any significant  impact on her income. But I think its likely that if shed 
been ill for a longer  period,  the business would have been negatively impacted,  and its 
income would  have  been reduced.  So I think the policy could  have been  useful  to Mrs R 
in those circumstances.
Mrs Rs also mentioned that she had savings which  would have covered her for a couple 
of months. But if shed made a successful claim on the policy  for accident,  sickness or 
unemployment, it would  have  paid a monthly  benefit 15% of what  she owed on her store  
card. And it would have done  this each month  until her credit agreement  ended,  or she 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance at the time of her claim had been repaid - 
whichever was the earliest.  So the policy would potentially have helped with Mrs Rs 
monthly repayments for significantly longer  than her savings  would have lasted. And 
shed have been able to keep her saving to use for other things.
I accept that its possible the information  FICL  gave Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But I think she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  as if she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the 
time, Mrs R was eligible  for the policy. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that it was 
unaffordable for her.
Mrs R doesnt appear  to have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover. So taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better  information  about 
the PPI would have put Mrs R off taking it out. This means I dont think shes lost out as 
a result of anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.
Ive taken into account all Mrs Rs comments,  including what  shes  said about not having 
been told she had the option of looking elsewhere for a policy.  But FICL  wasnt  obliged  to 
provide information  about products that might have been available from other providers. Ive 
also borne  in mind  that shes told us she had a part-time  job for 12 hours  per week.  But Im 
satisfied that this wouldnt have affected her ability to make  a successful claim on the policy.  
So these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8120097