K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr C says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a hire purchase agreement  in 1997. 
It was sold in store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mr C aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his agreement.  I dont  know  for certain  what was said at the time the policy was sold, but 
FICL has provided a copy of Mr Cs application  form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI and the option to take the policy has been  selected 
before the form was printed and then signed  by Mr C. Mr C has told us that this form doesnt  
show that the PPI was presented as optional. But I think its likely the PPI was discussed 
with Mr C before it was added to the agreement, and as Mr C was agreeing  to an important 
financial commitment I would  have  expected  him to have read over the form before signing 
in agreement with both the PPI and the credit. So overall I think its likely FICL made it clear 
that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Ref: DRN86523162Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mr C has told us he had a secure job with sick pay and also had savings and other 
insurances. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay and for longer 
than he would have  received full pay. The PPI would  also have allowed Mr C to keep his 
savings in place  to be used towards  any other  essential expenses  he may have had. In 
addition to this the PPI would have paid out in circumstances his other policies wouldnt 
have.
As Ive said above  I think Mr C chose to take out the PPI  knowing the other means he had 
available at the time so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of 
Mr Cs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said including that the rules say we should presume 
Mr C wouldnt  have taken PPI if she was given more information. But for the reasons 
outlined above  I still think she wouldve  bought the policy if she had been given clearer  
information. So these  points dont change my conclusion. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8652316