K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with how Bank  of Scotland plc (Halifax) treated him when in financial
difficulty. He also thinks Halifax  shouldnt have allowed him to increase the overdraft on his
account as he was already struggling with other  credit and couldnt afford to repay the
borrowing.
background
Mr M held a current account with Halifax. The account defaulted in April 2016  and Halifax
has been seeking to collect the debt since.
The account  began without an overdraft facility in July 2011. An overdraft facility  of £500
was introduced in September 2011 and there were then 10 increases (requested  by Mr M) to 
the limit between September 2011  and July 2012, as follows:
Month Overdraft limit
July 2011 None
30 September 2011 £500
30 September 2011 £1,000
30 September 2011 £2,000
12 October 2011 £2,500
13 October 2011 £3,000
14 October 2011 £3,100
16 October 2011 £3,150
26 June 2012 £3,500
28 June 2012 £4,000
4 July 2012 £4,500
8 July 2012 £5,000
Mr M made a total of 56 applications for an increased overdraft between September  2011 
and June 2014, of which 45 were declined  (these  not being listed  above). So the last 
increase to the overdraft limit was in July 2012.
During the period July 2011 to July 2012, there  were  quite significant amounts of money 
going into and out of the account. The larger deposits appear to come from Mr Ms self-
employed earning. The larger transfers  in and out are quite  erratic   there is no obvious  
pattern to them.
But generally, the outgoings  were  exceeding  what was coming into the account  and the
account was going further into the overdraft. For example, at the beginning of 
September 2011, the account  was £19 overdrawn. At the beginning of October 2011, it was 
£1,549 overdrawn  and November 2011  £3,149  overdrawn. At the beginning  of August 2012, 
the account was £4,678 overdrawn.
From August  2012,  the account was predominantly  overdrawn  often close to and
sometimes exceeding, the £5,000 limit. As a result, Mr M incurred a number of authorised
and unauthorised overdraft fees/charges.  In May 2014,  Halifax contacted Mr M as the
account was in arrears.  Mr M said he would  be clearing the arrears within a short period of
time.
Ref: DRN83121142Mr M then contacted Halifax in February  2015 to let it know  he wasnt  working and this was
putting pressure  on his finances.  In March 2015,  Halifax said it would put a hold on all fees
and charges and it provided an account management facility free of charge for six months.
Halifax says it was unsuccessful trying to contact  Mr M on a number  of occasions between
March 2015 and January 2016, when it says it wrote to Mr M to say the account would be
closed and defaulted, unless it was brought back in order within  60 days.
In February 2016  Mr M told Halifax that hed sought  advice  from a debt management charity
and that hed been advised to ask Halifax what it could do to help him in his situation.  Halifax
agreed to give Mr M 30 days breathing space and said it would need  to go through  an
income and expenditure assessment to establish  what else could be done on a longer term
basis. Mr M said he would call back later that day to go through  this. Halifax  says it didnt
receive any further contact from Mr M, and the account was closed  in April 2016 and a
default registered.
In July 2016, Mr M rang Halifax  to complain about the charges applied to his account, saying
they were excessive and should be reduced  and theyd led to the account defaulting. He
also complained  that hed been harassed  about  the debt.
Halifax investigated the complaint and provided  its final response later that month. It said,  in
summary, that:
-all of the fees and charges had been applied in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
account
-after Mr M had let it know he was in financial difficulty, it had helped by freezing  all 
account fees and charges from March 2015  until the account closed. And by providing 
an account management facility free of charge for six months
-the increases  to the overdraft were  all requested by Mr M and were subject to status. 
He had been eligible for them at the time
-it was a regulatory requirement to maintain contact  about the account. Mr M could 
choose to no longer  receive telephone contact if he wished  to
Mr M responded to Halifax  saying  that hed been struggling to repay  other credit at the time
of the overdraft increases. Halifax maintained its stance.
In January 2018, Mr M contacted us about  his concerns. An investigator  here asked Halifax
if it was prepared to consent to us looking into the complaint  as it had been referred
outside of the six month timeframe in which to bring  a complaint to us. Mr M told us the
reason for the delay was that he had been  unwell. The investigator thought what Mr M had
said could be considered exceptional  circumstances  and Halifax consented  to us continuing
to look into the complaint.
After reviewing what had happened, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In
summary, he said that:
-treating a customer positively and sympathetically didnt always  mean refunding charges
-the action  Halifax  took in March  2015 after finding out that Mr M was in financial difficulty 
was reasonable
-it wasnt wrong of Halifax to increase the overdraft. Mr M hadnt made it aware  of him 
being in any financial  difficulty, and large  deposits were being made on a fairly regular 
basis to reduce or clear the overdraft
Ref: DRN83121143-Halifax had a duty to maintain contact with Mr M about the account and the contact  didnt 
appear excessive
-the default had been correctly applied
-concerns about home visits carried out by the collection agent  would need to be directed 
to the agent as they were a third party
Mr M disagreed with the assessment.  He acknowledged the payments into the account, but
said that he would quickly return to being  in the overdraft. He also said that he was
struggling with day to day expenses and that Halifax ought to have realised this.
This didnt  change the investigators mind and so the case was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 29 March 2019.  In this I said:
was the lending affordable?
The relevant  codes of practice  are the OFT guidance on irresponsible  lending  (published  in
2010 and updated in 2011) and the Lending Code  (2011).
Section 4 of the OFT guidance says in summary that affordability checks carried out by a
lender should  be proportionate. This is taking account of factors  such as the amount of credit
being sought and the borrowers financial situation and credit history   including  any
indication of the borrower experiencing any financial  difficulty.
Section 4 of the Lending Code (2011) says that a lender should consider a range of factors
before agreeing to lend, including the potential for borrowing to adversely impact  the
customers financial situation and information from CRAs (Credit Reference  Agencies).
Halifax has said that Mr M was eligible for the initial overdraft and subsequent  increases and
that the lending had been granted subject to status,  but it hasnt explained what  either of
these things mean in the context of the specific applications made by Mr M. It says that it
doesnt hold any record of the affordability  checks carried  out before the lending  was agreed.
It has supplied me with a document  (dated January 2015) setting  out its general approach to
making lending  decisions. It also says the first time it became aware that Mr M was
experiencing financial difficulty was in March  2015.
Mr M says he was already  experiencing financial difficulty when he applied to increase the
overdraft. He says he had taken out a number of payday  loans before that point and he has
recently provided evidence to show that he was behind (in arrears)  with at least  one payday
loan provider in June 2011.
He has also provided  evidence to show that a payment to another payday loan (from a
different provider)  had been declined by his bank in October 2011.
I recently requested  the statements for the other current account that Mr M held with Halifax
at the relevant time and Halifax has provided  these. I can see that Mr M was making a
number of payments  from that account  to the same  payday loan provider around that time.
And that he incurred a Returned D/D charge in the same month.
I can also see that a number of payments were being made  from that account to another
payday loan provider, starting in August 2011.
Ref: DRN83121144Looking at the history  of the account Mr M has complained about, I can see the initial
overdraft of £2,000 came  into place in September 2011. Based on the renewal date of
24 September 2012, I assume the overdraft was agreed on or around 24 September  2011.
At this point, Halifax ought to have known that Mr M was making payments to a payday  loan
provider (from his other account), but from what Ive seen I dont think  there  had been  a
returned direct debit (the first one I can see is 3 October 2011).
And looking at the statements, although  Mr Ms account had been  overdrawn on a number of
occasions since it began, this was never  more  than £100 and the account was more often
than not in credit.
So I think the initial decision  to grant  Mr M an overdraft was probably reasonable  in that
the account had been managed reasonably  well to that point   and nothing had happened
on the other account, such  as a direct debit  having been returned, to cause concern.
However, by the time the overdraft limit increased  to £3,150 in October 2011 (from the
renewal date I assume this was on or around 10 October 2011), a direct debit had been
returned on his other  Halifax  account.  Also, the account subject to this complaint had gone
from being £16.49 overdrawn on 24 September 2011, to being nearly £2,000 overdrawn on
10 October 2011.
I think this should  have caused  Halifax to consider  carrying out additional  checks  before
agreeing to increase the overdraft limit. Thinking about proportionality, I think this should
have included an income and expenditure (I&E) assessment  and credit  check.  In terms of an
I&E assessment, its not clear what this would have  shown. Having said that, Im not aware
that Mr M was using any other current accounts  to manage his money beyond the two
mentioned here that he held with Halifax. And it seems unlikely there were other accounts as
his work  income  was being paid into the account  subject to the complaint.
Thinking about  what had happened on his two Halifax accounts (one nearly £2,000  in deficit
within 3 months of being open and the other  flitting between credit and debit plus numerous
payments being  made to payday  loan providers and a returned direct debit), I think its
reasonable to assume that an accurate I&E assessment wouldve shown a deficit.
And if Halifax had carried  out a credit history check, its likely (based on the evidence Mr M
has provided in terms of being in arrears with at least one payday loan provider)  this
wouldve presented  a picture  of someone  struggling  to meet  their existing credit
commitments.
Had Halifax carried out these checks, I think its unlikely it wouldve agreed  to increase the
overdraft limit at that point  in time. It follows that I think that lending and the subsequent
increases to the overdraft limit, were  unaffordable.  Im not aware that Mr Ms circumstances
fundamentally changed between October 2011 and August 2012 and, although in some
months the overdraft balance reduced, the general pattern was that it was increasing.
Mr M has had the benefit of the capital lent to him. So Im not proposing that Halifax refund
any of this. However, I think Halifax needs to re-work the account  on the basis  of all
fees/charges and interest relating to the balance exceeding £2,000,  being removed.
Halifax is entitled to use the compensation to reduce  what Mr M owes.  If the figure exceeds
what Mr M now owes, it should pay this to Mr M.
Ref: DRN83121145Halifax should also amend Mr Ms credit  file. Its not possible  to say for sure what  wouldve
happened if the overdraft limit had stayed at £2,000. The simplest and fairest approach  is to
remove all adverse information relating to this account (including the account default), from
the point at which the overdraft was increased  to £3,150.
did Halifax treat Mr M fairly when he told them in 2014 that he was experiencing financial
difficulty?
Under the relevant codes and regulation, Halifax needed to treat Mr M positively  and
sympathetically when  it became aware he was experiencing financial difficulty. There is no
one size fits all approach to positive and sympathetic treatment  it depends on the specific
situation a customer  finds themselves  in.
Mr M told Halifax in February 2015 that he was experiencing financial difficulty, due to ill
health and an associated loss of income.  In response,  Halifax froze  all fees,  charges and
interest on the account (including pending fees from recent account usage) and provided an
account management facility that usually comes with a fee, free of charge for 6 months.
Halifax wasnt obliged to go beyond that by for example, removing some of the historic  fees
applied to the account. And I think on balance the actions  Halifax took means  that it did treat
Mr M positively and sympathetically, because it did stop the situation from getting worse  at a
time when  Mr M was struggling.
were the attempts by the agent  to recover the money on behalf of Halifax,  reasonable?
In his initial view,  the investigator  said that Mr M would need to direct any concerns about
harassment to the third party  trying to recover the debt. However, we have since  clarified
with both Halifax and Mr M that the recovery agent  was acting on behalf of Halifax  and so
can be considered  as part of this complaint.
Mr M says the recovery agents  actions  amount  to harassment, including the agent visiting
his home.  Halifax says the agent wouldnt have visited  Mr Ms home and that it was obliged
to stay in contact with Mr M about his outstanding debt.
I asked Mr M to provide  more detail about  the agents visiting his home. He said that he
remembers phone calls saying that agents would be visiting his home to discuss  collection of
the debt. And that he had received letters at his address that werent  post marked,
sometimes being left with neighbours. He also said hed never been in during any of the
visits as hed been at work.
I dont doubt that Mr M found the involvement  of the recovery agent distressing. But its not
clear to me from what  hes said exactly when field agents visited  his property.  Mr M hasnt
said that he or his wife had any direct contact with any agents during  any visits.
Halifax records of how and when  Mr M was contacted dont appear to me to be
unreasonable. Halifax says it didnt receive any contact from Mr M for large period of time 
and bearing this in mind  I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax  (or its agents) to try to
make contact with Mr M.
Taking everything into account,  Im not persuaded that the actions of Halifax  (or its agents),
were unreasonable.
Ref: DRN83121146Finally, Ive thought  about whether Mr M should  be awarded any compensation for distress
caused by Halifax  lending to him when it shouldnt have done.  Ive taken into account  that
Mr M was already experiencing financial difficulties when Halifax  lent to him. These
difficulties and associated  factors like ill health were not caused  by Halifax. So I dont think
any compensation is due.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I currently intend to direct
Bank of Scotland plc to restructure the account based on a refund of all fees,  charges and
interest relating  to the borrowing in excess of £2,000. If this results in the account being
cleared, Halifax should  then pay the remainder to Mr M.
Mr M agreed  with my provisional findings.  Halifax agreed with my findings  about its 
treatment of Mr M when it knew he was in financial difficulty. However, it disagreed  with my 
findings that it hadnt carried out sufficient affordability checks and that the increases  to the 
overdraft beyond £2,000 were unaffordable.  In summary, Halifax  said:
-It has a system for evaluating applications for credit. The system takes account of a 
number of factors relevant to its lending decisions. It set out which factors would 
have been considered  when  the relevant applications for credit  were made
-The approach  Halifax takes is fair, because it produces consistent decisions  by 
applying the same  criteria  to all of its customers
-Mr M applied for increases in his overdraft limit 56 times during the period 30 
September 2011 to 28 June 2014.  Of these applications only 11 were  accepted,  the 
others being declined
-Id said that Halifax  should have been  reasonably aware of the use of payday loans. 
However, the accounts were  not managed by a bank employee and the credit 
decision system  wouldnt identify payday  lenders.  The information provided  through 
credit scoring would indicate any financial  difficulties.
It also said that the removal of all adverse information relating to the account would not be 
the fairest approach should my view remain unchanged. It would be appropriate  to say 
Mr M's account would  have still defaulted,  but this event may have occurred  earlier.  It is not 
possible to say for sure what actions  he would have taken at the time. It would not be fair to 
say the default  should  just be deleted, as this is not a true reflection. It said a full review of 
Mr Ms credit file, to see other negative markers,  may shed light on this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN83121147was the lending affordable?
As set out in my provisional  findings, under the relevant codes, when considering  an 
application for credit, Halifax needed to carry out proportionate affordability checks. And take 
account of a range of factors including any indication of the borrower experiencing any 
financial difficulty, the potential for borrowing to adversely impact the customers  financial 
situation and information from CRAs (Credit  Reference Agencies).
Halifax has said that Mr Ms applications  were considered  against  relevant factors and that 
the approach  was fair because it applied  the same criteria to Mr Ms applications as it did to 
applications from all customers  producing consistent outcomes. 
Although Halifax  hasnt (owing  to the passage  of time) been able to provide specific 
information to show what it considered  for each of Mr Ms applications, I accept that when  it 
considered Mr Ms applications for credit, it did so using a system that considered  some  
relevant factors. And Im prepared to accept that it applied the same criteria to all 
applications, such that it will have  produced  consistent outcomes.
My role isnt to consider whether Halifax general approach  to evaluating the affordability  of 
applications for credit was reasonable. Ive needed to look at the specific  applications made 
by Mr M, taking  account of what Ive been  able to establish about his circumstances when he 
made the applications.
I still find that the decision to grant Mr M an overdraft of £2,000 in September  2011 was 
reasonable. I say this because although Mr Ms account had been  overdrawn on a number 
of occasions since it began, this was never more than £100  and the account  was more often
than not in credit. And nothing had happened on the other account, such as a direct  debit 
having been returned, to suggest that any further  checks were necessary. 
However, by the time the overdraft limit increased  to £2,500 in October 2011, a direct  debit 
had been returned on his other Halifax account. Also,  the account subject to this complaint 
had gone from being £16.49 overdrawn on 24 September  2011, to being nearly £2,000 
overdrawn on 10 October 2011. And Mr M was making his fourth  application to increase  his 
overdraft, in the space of less than two weeks  which seems  unusually high and I think  
ought to have prompted questions about  the sustainability  of the lending.
I still think this should  have caused  Halifax to consider carrying out additional  checks before
agreeing to increase the overdraft limit. And, thinking about  proportionality, I still think  this 
should have included an income and expenditure (I&E) assessment and more detailed credit  
check.
Halifax has said there was no requirement  to carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment at the time  that such a requirement  didnt come  into place until the Consumer 
credit regulations (CONC) started  in November 2014.
I disagree. Whilst its true that income and expenditure assessments are perhaps  more 
explicitly and specifically  mentioned in CONC, there are numerous  references in both the 
Lending Code  and OFT guidance in 2011, to the need for lenders to take make sure 
borrowing is repayable  and sustainable . One of the main  ways a lender could satisfy  those  
criteria, would be to know about an applicants income versus expenditure.
Ref: DRN83121148As Halifax pointed out in its response  to my provisional decision, the Lending Code relevant 
at the time specifically  says that The customers declared income  would be a factor  to 
consider in the context of whether lending is affordable. Section 4.5 of the OFT Guidance, 
says that The creditor's assessment (of affordability ) should  have regard to the borrower's 
ability to pay off the maximum amount of credit  available  (equivalent  to the credit  limit)  over a 
reasonable period of time.
For the same reasons  as set out in my provisional findings, I think  its likely that an accurate 
I&E assessment wouldve shown a deficit.
Halifax has said its system for deciding whether to lend wouldnt have identified payday 
lenders, but that adverse  payment history would have been picked up and factored into the 
lending decisions.  Because of the passage of time, Halifax  cant  show  the exact basis upon 
which the overdraft  increase  in October  2011  was agreed.  
Ive needed to look at the evidence I do have and base my decision on this. I still find it 
significant that Mr M has been able to show that he was in arrears with at least one payday  
lender at the time of the application.  
For the reasons  given  earlier, I remain  of the opinion that Halifax  should have taken a closer 
look at Mr Ms credit  history when he applied to increase the overdraft to £2,500. And that, 
had it done so, its likely this wouldve presented a picture of someone struggling  to meet  
their existing credit commitments.
And I still think its unlikely it wouldve agreed  to increase the overdraft  limit at that point in 
time. It follows  that I think that lending and the subsequent increases to the overdraft limit, 
were unaffordable.  
did Halifax treat Mr M fairly when he told them in 2014 that he was experiencing financial
difficulty?
Neither Halifax nor Mr M have provided any new evidence  or arguments in relation to this. 
So I see no reason  to depart from my provisional finding. Which  is that Halifax  did treat Mr M 
positively and sympathetically, because it did stop the situation  from getting worse at a time 
when Mr M was struggling.
were the attempts by the agent  to recover the money on behalf of Halifax,  reasonable?
Neither Halifax nor Mr M have provided any new evidence  or arguments in relation to this. 
So I see no reason  to depart from my provisional finding  that Im not persuaded that the 
actions of Halifax (or its agents), were  unreasonable.
In relation to Halifaxs comments that in the event my decision about  affordability remains 
the same, the removal of all adverse information  relating to the account would not be the 
fairest approach.  
I accept that the account may have  gone on to default anyway, had the limit not increased 
beyond £2,000. However, as Ive already conveyed to Halifax - it was around January 2013  
when the overdraft commitment jumps  beyond around £2,000,  regularly and for longer  
periods of time. Up to that point, there are credits into the account from time to time.  After 
that point, the overdrawn  balance tends  to increase and the credits to bring it down are 
generally smaller and less frequent  not really servicing the overdraft. 
Ref: DRN83121149Arguably, Halifax ought to have realised  around  this time that the account  wasnt  being 
managed in a sustainable  way and, had it done  so, its likely a default  wouldve been applied 
in early 2013. Had that happened, the default  wouldve dropped  off by now.   
So, I still think it would be fair and reasonable for Halifax to remove  all adverse information  
relating to this account (including  the account  default),  from the point at which the overdraft 
was increased to £2,500.
my final decision
My final decision it that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc. I direct Bank 
of Scotland plc to restructure the account based  on a refund of all fees, charges and
interest relating  to the borrowing in excess of £2,000. If this results in the account being
cleared, Halifax should  then pay the remainder to Mr M.
And remove all adverse information  relating  to the account (including the account default), 
from the point at which the overdraft was increased  to £2,500.
In relation to the refund of fees,  charges  and interest, Halifax  should provide Mr M with its 
calculations.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Ben Brewer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8312114