K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage during  a 
meeting in 1990. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ms B says shes sure that PPI wasnt mentioned at the meeting  she had when arranging her 
mortgage and thinks it was added without her knowledge. But I do have to bear in mind that 
this meeting took place almost thirty years ago and memories of such  meetings do tend to 
fade, even over much  shorter timescales.  
Unfortunately, BoS doesnt have a record of the meeting or copies of any of the paperwork 
completed at the time. All it now has is some basic information about the mortgage and PPI 
which is still available from its computer records. But this isnt that surprising given how long 
ago this sale took place. Businesses  arent  required to keep this type of information for such  
long time periods. And the mortgage which the PPI covered was closed in 2002.
In situations like this, where theres  very little information available about the PPI sale, I need 
to decide whats  most  likely to have  happened,  taking account of the wider circumstances.
Ive thought carefully about what Ms B has said about not agreeing to take out the PPI. And I 
dont doubt that this is her honest recollection of what took place then.  But I dont think  that 
her memory of what happened  at the meeting is strong enough  evidence  on its own for me 
to conclude that BoS acted unfairly in this case by its representative wrongly arranging the 
PPI without Ms B agreeing to this. I think its more likely that Ms B was told the PPI was 
optional and she actively decided  to take it but, quite understandably, shes  since  forgotten  
about this discussion  and doesnt still have  any of the paperwork she should have received 
about the PPI at that time.
Ref: DRN85743302BoS say that this would  have been  an advised sale. And Ive taken this to be the case  
because this means that it had to ensure that the PPI was suitable for Ms B. As there arent 
any records of the sale available, I cant know how it did this. But from what I know  of her 
circumstances at the time, I dont think Ive any reason to think  it wasnt suitable. I say this 
because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ms B says she was eligible for generous sick pay from her employer. And she also says 
that her parents  would  have supported her if she hadnt been able to work. But this policy 
would have paid out in addition  to any other  means  she might have had of making her 
mortgage repayments. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  where ones 
home is potentially  at risk  so I think she would still have valued the extra  security  that 
the policy gave  her. It would also have allowed her to use her alternative means to fund 
other essential expenditure. 
Ive no reason to think the cost of the policy was unaffordable for Ms B. And as it was 
paid for by monthly premiums, she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
BoS also needed to give Ms B enough  information about the policy  for her to make  her own 
mind up about whether  she wanted to take it. I think its possible that the information it gave 
her could have been  better than it was. But for much the same reasons  that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable,  I dont think that better information would have changed  her mind 
about taking it. I think  she would have still thought the policy provided useful cover at an 
affordable price.
So on the limited  information available to me, I dont think that Ms B has lost out by anything  
that BoS may have done wrong when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8574330