K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited recently  told him that he will need to 
increase his premiums  massively to maintain the sum assured on his whole of life policy.  He 
believes this is unfair.
background
Aviva accepted that it had not carried out the necessary  policy reviews in 2004, 2009 and 
2014, something it didnt discover until 2018. It also said that it had mistakenly sent Mr P a 
series of statements  saying he had £100,000 of cover instead of the actual sum assured of 
£50,000. It offered  him £500  in lieu of this error. 
On the substantial issue of the failed reviews it offered  him no compensation simply saying 
that he would now have to increase his premium  from £63 to £520 to make up the shortfall if 
he wanted to retain  the £50,000  sum assured going forward.  Otherwise this sum would 
reduce to £16,000.
An adjudicator at this service  felt Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  He said that if Aviva  
had acted properly  Mr P would have had the opportunity  to pay the increases necessary 
from 2004, thereby  avoiding  the need for a massive  rise in premiums  now.  He said Aviva 
should therefore offer to reconstruct the policy on the assumption that these higher 
premiums had been paid as it was not fair to ask Mr P to find these back-payments now.
He also said that if, alternatively, Mr P now said he would  have cancelled  the policy  in 2004, 
if aware that the premiums needed  to double then Aviva should  return  all the premiums hed 
paid since then with interest.
Mr P subsequently said he would have cancelled  the policy  in 2004 if aware of the impact of 
the planned review as this wouldve made  it too expensive  to maintain.
Aviva said it was prepared to reconstruct the policy going forward as the adjudicator outlined 
but it did not feel it should agree to refund  the premiums  for various reasons:
Initially it implied that Mr P needed  this sum assured to cover his mortgage  and therefore  
would not have cancelled the policy or at least have  taken out a replacement  one. The 
adjudicator pointed that a whole of life policy was not suitable  for mortgage protection  and 
that Mr P had a separate endowment policy to cover the mortgage. It then argued that as 
endowments, by 2014, were not generally  proving sufficient  to cover the required borrowings 
Mr P might have retained this policy to make up any endowment  shortfall. It said it was likely 
that his endowment provider would have informed him of any shortfall by 2004.
It then said it had been mistaken in saying that Mr P could have increased the premium to 
maintain the sum assured. In fact, it had now discovered that there was no possibility of 
increasing the premium  between 1998 and 2009 under this contract. It also said it did not 
provide top-up policies at the time.  So Mr P could only have accepted the reduced  sum 
assured or cancelled  his policy.
It believed that Mr P generally had a need  for the cover and his decision to continue paying 
for the premiums demonstrates that he would have chosen to retain  the life insurance  going 
forward even with the drastically reduced  cover. It said that even if the reviews in 2004 and 
2009 had taken place he would have  enjoyed  after these  reviews  -  £25,000  and £20,000 
of cover respectively.  It therefore didnt agree to refund  the premiums since 2004.
Ref: DRN83639302Subsequently, it said Mr P should provide something to back up his assertion that he would 
have cancelled the policy in 2004 if the review had taken place in order to prove this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and mainly for the same reasons.
Firstly, I think it is important to explain that my role is to decide a case on the balance of 
probability, including what is most  likely to have happened - in this case  what Mr P would, 
more likely than not, have done  if informed  about  the implications of the failed review in 
2004.
In my view it is clear  that he did not take out this policy for mortgage protection  but for 
general life insurance  cover. I do not know how his mortgage endowment policy  was 
performing by 2004, and Avivas speculations  about this issue  are simply that. Further,  even 
if his endowment policy was not on course to pay off his outstanding  mortgage a whole of life 
policy is not a suitable or cost-effective means of covering such  a specific, time-limited debt. 
Aviva seems  to imply that Mr P could have used  this policys surrender value at a specific  
point in time to pay off any outstanding  mortgage  at its redemption date. I can see no logic in 
this argument  and feel certain  that few, if any, financial  advisors  would recommend the 
practically or sense  in such  a proposition.
Overall, despite the various exchanges between  Aviva  and the adjudicator, I am satisfied 
that this complaint comes down to one central  issue. What would Mr P have done if hed 
been told in 2004 that his sum assured  was about  to be halved  and that this sum was not 
guaranteed beyond the next five years (i.e. it could be reduced  further), and that he had no 
opportunity to pay a higher premium to retain  the £50,000 cover hed originally chosen.
Firstly, from my experience, many customers are not aware that their whole of life policies 
will be subject  to reviews which can result in significant increases in their premium or, as in 
this case, a drastic  reduction in the sums  assured  despite this being  generally explained in 
the literature.
So I suspect  the result of the 2004 review,  if it had been carried  out, would  have surprised 
and disappointed Mr P. I think it is more likely than not that he would have questioned why 
this reduction had happened, and discovered that even this much-reduced sum assured was 
not guaranteed over the long-term, and that further reviews  would  reassess whether his 
premium could even  support  this level of cover going forward.
Given this, I think it is more likely  than not that he would have cancelled the policy  at this 
point, particular as the level of cover  was now so far short of what  hed chosen, and could 
easily continue to go down.
In reaching this conclusion I have taken  account  of Mr Ps evidence when he said that he 
would have cancelled  the policy if informed of the impact of the review. While this is not in 
itself conclusive,  I do not believe there is more he can reasonably say to convince  Aviva that 
this would definitely have been  the case. So I dont accept that he needs to provide more  
evidence to prove this.
I therefore agree with the adjudicators proposed redress. Aviva should  refund all the 
premiums Mr P has paid since the date of the required 2004 review plus the surrender value 
of the policy  at that point. It should also add 8% simple interest per annum to each premium  
Ref: DRN83639303from the date it was paid and to the surrender value from the date of the review - in both 
cases to the date of settlement of this complaint.
From this combined total it should  then deduct  any current  surrender value to produce a fair 
compensation figure assuming he had stopped  this policy in 2004. This is to be paid on the 
basis that Mr P agrees  to surrender his policy, and without value.
It should also pay the £500  it has offered for the mistaken  letters claiming he had £100,000 
of cover.  As neither party has raised concerns about  this offer I have not addressed  it but 
agree that £500 is a fair and reasonable sum for the undoubted impact this mistake will have 
had on Mr P.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and instruct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8363930