K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 28 October  2019  that explained that I upheld the complaint 
in part. I have attached a copy  of my decision and it forms  part of this decision.
Mr P responded to say that he had nothing further to add. Satsuma responded and although 
it didnt comment on the content of my provisional  decision, it did say that Mr P had taken 
out three further  loans with Satsuma and provided  further information about  those loans.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having considered the additional information  provided by Satsuma, I can see that Mr P took 
out three further  loans on 18 November 2018,  4 January 2019 and 5 April 2019.  As all of 
these loans were taken out after Satsuma  had already issued its final response,  those loans 
dont form part of this complaint  so I have not addressed them in this decision.  
Should Mr P be unhappy about those loans, then hell need to raise  his concerns with 
Satsuma in the first instance.
However, as Mr P had nothing further to add and Satsuma has not provided any further 
information relating  to the loans that I did consider in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason why I should reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional  
decision.
putting things right 
I understand that there may be an outstanding balance on loans 4 and 5 so this is what  I 
require Satsuma to do to put things  right. If Satsuma has sold the outstanding debts it should 
buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Satsuma is not able 
to buy the debts back, then it should  liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  
outlined below.
Satsuma should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments Mr P made  towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  
Satsuma has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr P which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
Ref: DRN87634282C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr P having 
made overpayments  then Satsuma should refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Satsuma should then refund 
the amounts calculated  in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Satsuma has already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Mr P. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Satsuma 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. Satsuma shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal it has already written-off.  
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loans 
2 - 4. The overall  pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loan 5 means  any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so Satsuma should remove  this loan entirely from Mr 
Ps credit file. Satsuma  does not have to remove loan 5 from Mr Ps credit  file until it 
has been repaid,  but it should still remove any adverse information recorded  about 
the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint 
in part and require Provident Personal  Credit  Limited to do what I have set out above to put 
things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87634283Copy of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr P says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 5 instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr P between  2 December 
2016 and 2 May 2018 Mr Ps borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan number Amount  lent Date  lent Date repaid
Loan 1 £100 2 December 2016 26 December 2017
Loan 2* £600 9 August 2017 26 January 2018
Loan 3* £720 4 January 2018 12 February 2018
Loan 4 £350 28 March  2018 N/A
Loan 5* £150 2 May 2018 N/A
* indicates a loan taken out when  previous  loan(s) is still outstanding.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint and thought that all of the loans  shouldnt  have 
been given. Satsuma disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Satsuma has told us what checks it carried out before lending any of the loans. It said it 
checked Mr Ps income and expenses and also searched his credit file. 
For the first loan, Satsumas notes  suggest  that Mr Ps declared monthly income was £2,100 
and his monthly expenses were  £700 which would leave a monthly  disposable income of 
£1,400 to cover 12 monthly repayments of £16.60.  Therefore on the face of it the loans 
seemed affordable. However, Satsuma also carried out a credit  check,  and having  looked at 
Mr Ps credit  file, I can see that in December 2016 a number of outstanding  loans  were  
present. And although its possible that some  of the loans  taken out shortly  before the 
Satsuma loan might not have shown up on Satsumas  check,  I think its likely that most of 
the outstanding loans  wouldve. 
Ref: DRN87634284Satsuma said that following  the results of the credit  check, it added  a further £862.12 of 
potential expenditure to Mr Ps declared expenditure. And this still resulted in Mr P having a 
disposable income of over £500.  Therefore, given that the amounts Mr P had to repay on 
loan 1 were relatively  small  and as Im satisfied  that Satsuma did take into account Mr Ps 
other credit commitments, I dont think it was unreasonable for Satsuma to have lent loan 1 
to Mr P. 
However, for loan 2, Satsuma lent a considerably higher amount, which  was also due to be 
repaid over a 12 month period, whilst loan 1 was still outstanding. And as Satsuma carried 
out the similar checks as it did for loan 1, I think its likely that it wouldve  seen  that Mr P had 
defaulted on a mobile phone contract  in April 2017  i.e. between Mr P applying for loan 1 and 
2. Hed also taken a number of other high-cost loans between loans 1 and 2 with Satsuma. 
And given  that Mr P was now borrowing substantially more  than his first loan  so that his 
monthly repayments of £16.60 for loan 1 were  now increasing by almost £100 per month  (to 
over £116  per month) it meant he was going  to be required to use a sizable proportion  of his 
income to service debt.  And hed not long defaulted  on an account,  so I think  it wouldve 
been evident to Satsuma  that the repayment  of loan 2 was not going  to be sustainable for Mr 
P.
 
Loan 3 was taken out before loan 2 had been repaid  by which  point Mr P had been 
borrowing from Satsuma for over a year. And loan 3 was again for a larger  amount  this 
time for £720. When  deciding whether to lend this loan, Satsuma added £877.41 to Mr Ps 
declared expenditure. So Satsuma was aware  that Mr Ps credit  commitments were much  
higher than the £300 that hed declared. And as loan 2 was still outstanding, he was now 
going to have to repay  around £220 per month. So I think it shouldve  been apparent  to 
Satsuma that Mr P was struggling to keep up with his borrowing commitments.
Loans 4 and 5 were  for lower amounts.  So I have  considered whether it was reasonable for 
Satsuma to have  lent to Mr P again, perhaps  because it thought  his circumstances had 
improved. But I dont  think that was the case.  
Mr P had not long repaid loan 3, before he applied for further borrowing from Satsuma, and 
loan 5 was taken out whilst loan 4 was still running.  So I think it was clear from Mr Ps 
actions, especially by the time he took out the final loan that his circumstances had not 
improved to the extent that the borrowing had become  sustainable - particularly as there was 
barely a break between  Mr P repaying one loan and taking out another. 
In response to the adjudicators view Satsuma said that it appeared that the adjudicator had 
only considered  the number  of loans. But in considering this complaint, I have looked at Mr 
Ps circumstances  at the time of each loan and compared this with what  Satsuma has 
provided, and with what I think Satsuma was likely to have seen when it completed its 
checks. 
Satsuma also said it didnt  think that sustained or sequential borrowing is of itself 
irresponsible or leads to the conclusion that the customer is persistently relying on credit. Its 
not clear what exactly Satsuma means  by this, as sustained or sequential borrowing is 
generally the main  indicator that a consumer is persistently  relying on credit.  And in terms of 
the irresponsibility of repeat  lending, I think there  does come a point where the lending 
history and pattern  of lending itself clearly demonstrates  that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ref: DRN87634285I say this because  the Consumer  Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. And in this case, for the reasons outlined above,  I think the pattern of 
repeat lending was well established by the final loan, if not earlier.
Because of these  reasons, I dont currently think that Satsuma shouldve  lent loans 2  5 to 
Mr P in the circumstances.
putting things right 
I understand that there may be an outstanding balance on loans 4 and 5 so this is what  I 
intend to require Satsuma to do to put things right. If Satsuma has sold the outstanding  
debts it should  buy these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If 
Satsuma is not able to buy the debts back,  then it should liaise  with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.
Satsuma should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments Mr P made  towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  
Satsuma has already refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr P which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr P as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr P having 
made overpayments  then Satsuma should refund these overpayments  with 8% 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Satsuma should then refund 
the amounts calculated  in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any 
principal Satsuma has already written-off. If this results in a surplus then the surplus 
should be paid to Mr P. However if there is still an outstanding balance then Satsuma 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P. Satsuma shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of principal it has already written-off.  
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to loans 
2 - 4. The overall  pattern of Mr Ps borrowing for loan 5 means  any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so Satsuma should remove  this loan entirely from Mr 
Ps credit file. Satsuma  does not have to remove loan 5 from Mr Ps credit  file until it 
has been repaid,  but it should still remove any adverse information recorded  about 
the loan.
Ref: DRN87634286*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Satsuma to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my provisional decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I currently think that the complaint should  be upheld  in 
part and intend to require Provident Personal  Credit Limited to do what  I have set out above 
to put matters right.
I now invite Mr P and Provident Personal  Credit Limited to provide any further information or 
comments they want me to consider before I make a final decision on this complaint, before 
11 November 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8763428