K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  failed to pay out the 
correct maturity sum on his endowment policy and didnt deal with his concerns about  this 
promptly or adequately,  or pay sufficient compensation.
background
Mr R said:
The salesman  said he could reasonably expect to receive back treble  his money  after 
25 years
This is the basis on which he took out this Scottish Amicable  policy rather  than one 
with the Pru whose growth projections  were  lower. The Pru, who took over this policy  
at some point, should therefore pay out what hed been promised initially
There was a specific fund established  to protect  Scottish Amicable policyholders after 
this take-over, and he has not received a fair sum or bonus from it, or an 
explanation as to what the Pru is doing with this money
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel his complaint  should  be upheld.
He said hed seen  no evidence that the Pru had not paid the appropriate  maturity  sum which 
did include  some bonuses  but others had never  been guaranteed. He said that the terms, 
conditions and general operation of Mr Rs policy had not been  affected as a result of the 
Pru taking it over from the original  provider. The projections given at the outset were based 
on previous/recent returns, something  which was likely made clear in the documentation  but 
that these had proved over-optimistic  as growth  rates (and therefore returns) had plummeted 
in the years since.
Hed seen no evidence  to conclude that the Pru had acted incorrectly in its management  of 
the Scottish  Amicable inherited fund but any overall  concerns  about  this would need to be 
addressed to the industry regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority.   
He also felt £200 was reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the 
Prus inadequate  responses, particularly given it had late interest to the maturity sum to take 
account of the delay  in providing these.
Mr R disagreed, and said:
Legally binding contracts are usually written  and documented,  and in Scotland they 
can include verbal contracts provided they can be evidenced
He entered  into a legal, verbal  contract based  on what  the salesman told him; there 
was no mention of warnings. His friend, who is also complaining about the same 
product, did the same  thing and has the same recollection of what  was promised
Hes still yet to be provided  with an explanation about who will benefit  from the 
Scottish Amicable Investment Fund  and believes  hes been cheated out of 
approximately £2,500. He would like to know how much,  if any of the 'maturity sum' 
of his policy actually  came from this fund
Ref: DRN85817652The adjudicator  said that he did not disbelieve his recollections from 1993. But why 
should he question  this at all given he is an honest, respectable member of the 
public?
He enclosed a letter from Scottish  Amicable  at the point of sale  which  he felt 
supported his argument about  what was promised
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case I agree with the adjudicator 
and for the same  reasons.
Firstly, I fully understand why Mr R was so disappointed by his final pay-out as this was so 
much less than he was expecting, and believes he was promised at the outset. There  are 
therefore two distinct  issues:  what was his contractual entitlement  and is there  sufficient 
evidence to conclude  that the Pru breached this; and whether the original salesman misled 
him into believing he was guaranteed a specific  return.
Having read the documentation, I have seen nothing to suggest the policy did guarantee 
either a specific return, beyond the basic sum assured, or particular bonuses. In this respect  
the policy mirrors those  sold by all other providers of these types  of endowment  policies. 
Part of the money is used to pay for ongoing life cover while  the rest is invested. By 
definition, growth rates,  and therefore the eventual pay-out, cannot be accurately predicted,  
let alone guaranteed over any period time, let alone  25 years. 
In this respect projected returns could only be based  on certain assumptions about possible 
future growth rates. Such projections had to be approved by the financial regulator  at the 
time, and since, so Scottish  Amicable would not have been able to pluck an unrealistic  rate 
out of thin air just to lure customers. The projections  had to be based on returns  in recent 
years and approved  by the regulator.
Unfortunately, since the early 90s growth  rates have fallen rapidly  and never returned to 
earlier levels; in recent years they have been  in low single figures.  This is why most policies 
taken out in the 80s and 90s have ended up delivering far less than was originally  projected. 
So this not a unique Scottish Amicable or Pru problem.
I dont believe the documentation wouldve said that bonuses were guaranteed as I have 
never seen  an endowment plan where  this was the case. So I can see no grounds to uphold  
Mr Rs complaint on this point. In relation to the Scottish Amicable Insurance  Fund, in my 
view the Pru explained how it oversees this fund in its Final  Response Letter in reasonable 
detail, saying:
The purpose of the demutualisation process  was fundamentally to protect existing 
policyholders by trying to ensure that their investments were not negatively impacted. This 
was done by creating a 'ring fenced' fund called  the Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund 
(SAIF). The fund is used  exclusively  for appropriate ex-Scottish Amicable investments and 
Prudential cannot  access the fund for any wider purpose.
Given this, Ive no reason  to doubt  that it paid Mr R a fair sum from this fund. It also outlined  
the different  payments hed received in its Final Response Letter.
Ref: DRN85817653This still leaves the issue of whether  the salesman offered promises which ran counter to the 
terms and conditions of the policy.
I understand that Mr R took exception to the adjudicators comments saying that he didnt 
doubt Mr Rs recollections but still could not uphold this part of his complaint. I therefore 
wont repeat  this explanation.
But this sale took place more than 25 years  ago, the person concerned  is no longer alive 
and so cannot offer any evidence himself, and there  appears to be no documentation which  
could clarify  what was said. I therefore  have to consider whether there is sufficient, 
persuasive evidence  to safely conclude that the salesman  misled  Mr R, presumably  
deliberately. 
I say this because  the salesman would have known it was impossible to offer any 
guarantees about returns over the next quarter of a century so could only have made  such a 
claim knowing this was not true.
Given I only have Mr Rs recollection, and that this is of a conversation that took place  more  
than 25 years ago, I simply do not believe there is sufficient evidence  to safely  conclude that 
the salesman  definitely misled him.
Even if I did reach such a conclusion, I could not instruct the Pru to pay out what  Mr R 
believes he was promised  as he was never  entitled to anything  more than he recently  
received. I could only consider whether Mr R would  have taken this policy out if he was 
aware that the projections were not guaranteed, and what he might have done with this 
money instead. As no savings or endowment  plans  offered guaranteed  returns  I might 
conclude that he would  still have agreed  to this policy.
Finally, I am satisfied that the Pru was prepared to make the pay-out  on time and 
subsequently paid reasonable compensation in lieu of the fact that it had not responded to 
Mr Rs reasonable queries earlier.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8581765