K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the renewal of his motor  insurance policy  with Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited.  Reference to Admiral  includes  reference to its agents.  
background
In June 2018, Mr Ks policy renewed automatically.  Admiral took payment of £1,279.04 from 
Mr Ks registered account.  
In July 2018, Mr K phoned Admiral and said that he hadnt received renewal notification and 
queried why the premium  had increased so much. His premium in the previous year was 
£747.17. Admiral told Mr K that there  was an outstanding claim against his policy that hadnt 
yet been resolved. It told him that if the claim was resolved in his favour, it would recalculate 
the premium and hed get a refund. Mr K asked  for a cancellation quote and Admiral  told him 
that if he cancelled  the policy that day, hed receive a refund of £1,166.90. 
In February 2019,  Admiral  told Mr K that the claim was now a non-fault claim and that he 
was due a refund of £39.20. 
Mr K says that he didnt  receive notification of the renewal in the post and the first he knew 
about the renewal  was when he saw the debit  on his credit card account. He says that after 
he talked to Admiral about this, he decided not to cancel  his policy and to wait until the claim 
had been resolved. Mr K looked  at price comparison websites and saw quotes of around      
£850-£950, so he thought  that the refund would reduce  his premium to that sort of figure.  He 
doesnt understand why the refund was only £39.20. Mr K says that if hed cancelled the 
policy in July 2018, he could have got much cheaper cover with another  insurer.  He says 
that if Admiral had told him that the refund would only be £39.20, he would have cancelled 
the policy earlier.
In response to Mr Ks complaint, Admiral  said that it sent a renewal  pack to Mr K by post and 
it hadnt been returned as undelivered. It said that the refund was correct and that it hadnt 
specified earlier how much the refund would be after settlement of the outstanding claim. 
Admiral offered Mr K a loyalty discount  of £168.22.  Alternatively, it offered to waive its 
cancellation fee of £49.50.
Mr K says that during the course of his complaint, Admiral  said that the renewal  documents 
were not sent by post but were available on the portal: he didnt have access to the portal. 
He wants Admiral to apply the discount  that would have been applicable if it hadnt applied  a 
fault claim at the time of renewal. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that Admiral  had sent the 
renewal pack in the post and sent it to the on-line portal, although Mr K hadnt registered  on 
the portal at that time. The investigator  didnt think that Admiral had acted unreasonably in 
collecting the premium  on renewal. She said that Admiral wouldnt have known when it 
spoke with Mr K in July 2018 how much it would refund to him when the claim was settled. 
The investigator thought Admirals offer of a loyalty discount or waived cancellation fee was 
fair. She said that the premium had increased  because Mr K had changed his car and 
because hed had an accident, even though it wasnt his fault. 
Ref: DRN80672282Mr K didnt agree with the investigator. He said that in one of the calls,  Admiral said that the 
renewal pack was not sent to him in the post but was uploaded onto the portal.  Mr K said 
that he asked  the adviser to confirm this point, which they did. Mr K said that he wouldnt 
expect his premium to go from £800  to £1,200. He said that as Admiral didnt send him a 
renewal notification, he couldnt  phone  it to discuss the renewal. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. I asked the investigator to carry out some further investigations. 
The investigator sent a second view in which she said that further enquiries had shown that 
Mr K opted  in for on-line documents and so, at renewal in 2018, the documents  were  sent to 
the portal and a renewal reminder  letter sent by post. The investigator said in the July 2018  
call, Admiral said during  a phone call that it didnt appear that Mr K was registered on-line 
but it migrated  its systems  in 2017  and its likely that Mr K didnt sign up on the new platform 
 which  would explain why he didnt receive  the documentation sent to the portal. In any 
event, she was satisfied  that Admiral  sent the renewal letter by post. The investigator said 
that shed looked at pricing information  and was satisfied that Admiral had calculated  the 
renewal premium correctly and that Mr K had been treated the same as all customers in his 
position. 
Mr K didnt agree with the investigator and asked that his complaint be referred  to an 
ombudsman. He said, amongst other things, that Admiral should be able to see who hasnt 
registered for the portal if documents are uploaded  there. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been considerable confusion  in this case about how Admiral  sent Mr K the 2018 
renewal documentation.  Admiral sent us a screen  shot showing  that Mr K was registered  for 
e-mail, SMS  and on-line services. The screen  shot isnt dated, so its not clear whether  Mr K 
was registered  for on-line  services at the time the renewal notification was sent out in 2018. 
In the phone call with Admiral in July 2018,  Admiral  helped Mr K register  for on-line services. 
On balance, Im not satisfied that Mr K was registered for on-line  services  at the time of 
renewal in 2018. But thats not the end of the matter.  
Whether or not Mr K was registered for on-line services at the time of renewal in 2018,  
Admiral sent a renewal  letter to Mr K by post on 30 May 2018.  Ive seen a copy  of that letter  
and it was correctly  addressed.  That letter sets out the premium  of £1,279.04, says that Mr K 
had previously opted to received documents on-line and asks him to register  to view them.  
Mr K says,  and I accept, that he didnt receive that letter. Admiral isnt responsible  for any 
failings in the postal system. On balance, Im satisfied  that Admiral  posted the renewal  cover  
letter dated  30 May 2018 to Mr K. So, I dont think that Admiral was at fault in failing to notify 
Mr K about  his renewal  premium.
When Mr K queried the increase in the premium, Admiral told him that there  was an open 
claim and when the claim was resolved it would backdate the price. Admiral couldnt  say 
what the price would be until the claim  was resolved. I dont think  that Admiral was at fault in 
failing to tell Mr K what the refund  would  be at that stage. Pricing  is a dynamic process  and 
changes daily, so Admiral  couldnt say in advance what refund Mr K would receive. 
Ref: DRN80672283Admiral has provided me with confidential,  business  sensitive  information to explain how it 
calculated the renewal quote  it sent to Mr K in 2018 and the adjustment  to the premium 
following settlement  of the claim.  Im afraid  I cant share that information with Mr K, but Ive 
considered it carefully. Im satisfied the premium Mr K was quoted in 2018  and the refund he 
received were calculated  correctly and that all of Admirals customers  in Mr Ks position  
would have been charged a similar premium and received a similar refund.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large  number of factors. 
Its not down to me to tell Admiral what factors it should take into account  when assessing 
risk, nor how to go about its assessment. Different  insurers will have different views on what 
presents a risk and the extent of that risk. Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgment 
and not something  with which we would usually think  its fair to interfere.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Admiral was 
at fault in relation to the renewal premium or the refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067228