K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) hasnt paid a claim  under her travel insurance policy.  
All references to Mapfre include  the agents  it has appointed to handle  claims. 
background
Mrs C held an annual budget travel insurance  policy, provided by Mapfre. 
Unfortunately, Mrs Cs hip dislocated while she was on holiday. She immediately contacted 
Mapfre and was put in touch with its local medical  assistance company, who gave Mrs C 
advice and assistance about  her claim.  This included giving information  to Mrs C about 
which hospital to attend and approving outpatient  treatment.  Further assistance was given 
when Mrs Cs hip dislocated for a second  time. 
Around six months later Mapfre wrote  to Mrs C to say her policy didnt cover medical 
conditions which she was aware of before buying  the insurance and because  Mrs C had an 
operation on a broken hip replacement in the 12 months before buying the policy,  her claim 
wasnt covered. Mapfre said it had already paid some of Mrs Cs medical bills on a 
disclaimer basis and it would be asking Mrs C to repay these costs. 
Unhappy, Mrs C complained to Mapfre and then to this service.
Our investigator issued  a number of opinions about  Mrs Cs complaint. She initially  said she 
thought Mapfre  was entitled to decline Mrs Cs claim. But after reviewing further information 
from both Mrs C and Mapfre, she said she didnt think it was fair for Mapfre to ask Mrs C to 
repay money  it had already agreed  to pay. 
However our investigator then received a copy of a disclaimer signed  by Mrs C and said 
Mrs C had agreed to pay Mapfre back any money it had paid if the claim wasnt  covered by 
the policy. 
The case  has now been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear about  the painful experiences  Mrs C went through on holiday. I appreciate 
her patience while waiting  for the Financial Ombudsman Service to make a decision about 
her complaint, during which time I understand she has been contacted by debt collectors.
Mrs Cs son, Mr C, bought this insurance policy  on her behalf. The sale started online and 
was concluded  in a telephone call during  which Mr C made a number  of declarations  about  
Mrs Cs health. Ive listened to this telephone call and I think  its clear Mr C took great  care 
when answering  the questions  he was asked about  his mothers  health.
Ref: DRN80171462One of the questions asked was whether Mrs C had been seen by a doctor or surgeon or 
had needed inpatient treatment within the last 12 months. Mr C said Mrs Cs hip replacement  
had broken due to a design fault and shed had surgery during this time. 
After carrying out a full medical screening  based  on Mrs Cs hip replacement,  her surgery 
and a number  of other medical conditions, Mapfre gave Mr C a quote for a travel insurance 
policy which  would fully cover all of Mrs Cs declared medical conditions. 
Mr C noted the cost of this policy was more than what Mrs C had paid for her flights. The 
advisor then gave Mr C the option of choosing a budget policy,  which wouldnt cover 
pre-existing medical conditions. The advisor  explained this meant  Mrs C wouldnt be covered  
for anything  that had just been declared  and that claims or claims related to any 
pre-existing medical conditions wouldnt be covered.  Mr C went  ahead and purchased the 
budget policy.
The policy schedule which was sent to Mrs C says no medical conditions. Page two of 
Mrs Cs policy booklet says we do NOT cover  medical problems that you had before the 
cover started. The policy terms and conditions go on to say there is no cover  for claims 
which relate to a medical condition which the policyholder was aware of before  taking  out the 
insurance. 
I understand Mrs Cs policy schedule doesnt list specific medical conditions which are 
excluded from cover. Specific  medical  conditions are sometimes  listed on a policy schedule 
as being either covered or excluded, depending on the level of cover  that has been bought 
The policy Mr C purchased, on behalf of Mrs C, was a budget  one which doesnt cover any 
pre-existing medical conditions. This is a blanket exclusion in the policy. So I wouldnt expect 
Mapfre to specifically list each individual medical condition which isnt covered on the policy 
schedule. I dont agree with Mrs C that its reasonable to interpret no medical conditions on 
the policy schedule  as meaning  there were no medical exclusions and that pre-existing 
medical conditions  would  be covered.  
I think Mapfre made it clear during the sales call that the budget policy  wouldnt cover  claims 
or claims  related to pre-existing medical  conditions, including any condition which had just 
been declared. And I think Mrs Cs policy documentation is also clear that pre-existing 
medical conditions  arent  covered.
Mrs C says theres no evidence her hip dislocation was due to her previous hip replacement  
or the operation shed had in the twelve months  before buying the policy  and the hip 
dislocation could have  happened to anybody, whether theyd  had a replacement hip or not. 
However Mrs Cs hip replacement   and her subsequent surgery  was a medical  problem 
which she knew about before the policy started. Mr C, on behalf of Mrs C, chose to take out 
a policy  which didnt  cover  claims or claims related to Mrs Cs replacement hip. As I 
understand it, the claim here related to the joints of Mrs Cs replacement hip being put back  
into place. So I dont  think Mrs Cs claim is covered under her policy, and I wont  be asking 
Mapfre to pay any outstanding medical bills. 
Turning to the costs  which  Mapfre has already paid, I dont think Mapfre  has been  unfair  or 
unreasonable in asking  Mrs C to repay this money  to it. 
Ref: DRN80171463When a policyholder needs medical  assistance abroad, receiving treatment is clearly a 
priority. But when a claim is presented  to an insurer, the insurer  is entitled  to make 
reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that the claim is covered. For example, an insurer will 
generally request  relevant medical records and/or listen to sales calls, and this can take 
some time. 
While an insurer  is making these enquiries, it needs  to ensure the policyholder gets the 
treatment they need, so an insurer  will generally  do one of two things  it will either ask the 
policyholder to pay for their own medical treatment and submit a claim for these costs, or it 
will accept  the claim on a disclaimer basis. Asking a policyholder to pay for their own medical 
treatment and submit a claim later can sometimes present difficulties, depending on the 
policyholders location and their financial circumstances. 
Accepting a claim  on a disclaimer basis means  the claim is provisionally accepted, subject to 
further checks by the insurer, and if it turns  out the claim isnt covered by the policy then the 
policyholder will generally be responsible  for all of the costs.  This is how Mapfre  proceeded 
here and I dont think it was unfair for it to take this option rather than asking Mrs C to pay for 
her own medical treatment and claim the costs back later.  
Ive noted Mrs Cs comments about the date and wording of the signed  disclaimer  and I 
understand Mr C has taken legal advice on these  points. The Financial  Ombudsman  Service  
decides cases based on relevant considerations such as the contract between the parties, 
the law and industry guidance.  But Im not bound by the law and I have regard in every case  
to what I think is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. I havent placed a great deal 
of weight on the signed disclaimer  document itself when reaching my decision  its one of a 
number of factors which Ive taken into account.  
Ive listened to the initial claim notification call with Mapfre. I havent been provided  with any 
of the later call recordings  but I understand Mrs C says her family were given assurances the 
claim would be met and Mapfre didnt mention there was a risk of the claim not being 
covered. Even if I accept  what Mrs C has said about this, it doesnt  automatically follow  that 
it would  be fair to ask Mapfre to accept responsibility  for the costs  it has already paid.
Mrs C needed medical treatment regardless of whether  she had cover under her policy  or 
not. And Mapfre gave  Mrs C advice and assistance  about how to receive  medical treatment, 
as Id have expected it to do. I understand Mapfre may have directed Mrs C towards  a 
specific hospital and given her the go-ahead to receive outpatient  treatment but Im not 
persuaded, based on the evidence Ive seen,  that Mrs C has been financially disadvantaged 
because of any advice  Mapfre  gave to her. 
Overall, having taken all of the circumstances into account, I dont think it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to ask Mapfre to accept responsibility  for part of Mrs Cs claim when there isnt 
any cover  in place under  her policy for the claim she has made. 
This means  I think  Mapfre is entitled to ask Mrs C to repay the money it has already paid 
towards her claim. Mapfre has said it is prepared  to agree to a repayment  plan and this is 
something for Mapfre and Mrs C to now arrange  directly. 
I understand Mrs C would like us to look at Mapfres  reputation  as a whole but the Financial 
Ombudsman Service doesnt have any regulatory  powers and I can only comment on 
Mapfres actions in the individual circumstances of this specific case. 
Ref: DRN80171464Around three months after Mrs C first made  her claim, Mapfre identified  that it didnt think  the 
claim was covered. Ive seen evidence that Mapfre tried to telephone Mrs C to discuss  this. 
Mapfre spoke to a number of members  of Mrs Cs family around the same time and I dont 
think Mapfre was particularly helpful  in identifying what documentation it would need in order  
to speak to someone  other than Mrs C about  the claim. When  Mapfre  spoke to Mrs Cs 
daughter-in-law, after realising it already had authority  to do so, it told her the claim wasnt 
covered and a detailed  written explanation  would be sent to Mrs C.
However Mapfre then made  further  attempts to contact Mrs C by phone,  despite  having 
been told more  than once that Mrs C would  have difficulty with this. It took another three 
months for Mapfre to send a letter to Mrs C explaining why her claim wasnt  covered. 
Overall, I dont  think Mapfre communicated well about this claim and I think  Mapfre  could 
have written to Mrs C to let her know about its decision sooner. But, for the reasons Ive 
explained above, I dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down 
Mrs Cs claim, so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8017146