K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a loan in 2008. Mr B says Santander UK Plc  trading as Alliance & Leicester 
(Santander) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold to Mr B during a telephone  call. It seems like Mr B was sent loan 
documents to sign and return  after that call. Mr B says he was told he had to take the PPI to 
get the borrowing. Santander  says it would have made it clear the policy was optional.  And 
its provided a copy of Mr Bs loan agreement.  On the form, it asks applicants  to tick if they 
want to take the PPI and then sign separately from the loan agreement.  
Santander has also provided a copy of the telephone calls that took place with Mr B when he 
applied for the loan and policy which I have listen to. During the calls the advisor provided 
information about the policy and Mr B agreed  to take it. So I think Mr B was made aware  he 
was also taking the PPI.
Taking this all into account, I think Santander  made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember  this.
Mr B has said he felt pressured to take out the PPI. I dont doubt that these are his 
recollections. But I also have to consider that the sale took place over 10 years ago. Having 
listened to the telephone call, the adviser  told Mr B it was a good  idea to take out the PPI as 
he didnt have enough other  means  to cover  the loan repayments for the full term of the loan. 
But this isnt the same as pressure. The advisor also explained that the PPI could be 
cancelled in first 30 days  and the loan agreement was sent to Mr B after the telephone call, 
allowing him to reflect  on whether or not he wanted  the product. So on balance,  Im not 
persuaded that Mr B felt he had no option but to agree to the policy.  
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   such as 
unusual employment  terms  or existing medical  conditions. Mr B says he had sick pay and 
redundancy benefits from his employer but the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of his employee 
benefits and for considerable  longer. 
Ive noted Mr Bs comments that he had saving he couldve used.  But the policy  would have 
covered his loan repayments for up to 18 months if he became unemployed and for 60 
months if he was too unwell to work.  Having  the PPI would have meant  Mr B could have 
used his savings  to pay for other  essential costs if he was unable  to work. 
The cost of the policy was shown  including the amount  of the premium, the interest  
payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I think Mr B would  have understood how 
Ref: DRN83717862much the PPI would  cost if he kept the policy for its full term.  And given how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mr B made a successful claim  he couldve got back  quite a bit 
more than he paid for it. 
Mr B wouldve  got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Santander thought about  this when  it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr B. But I havent seen anything to suggest he thought  
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Santander  gave Mr B 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But  as Ive explained above - it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:  
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Santander didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Santander  UK Plc does have to pay back  to Mr B any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8371786