K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Studio Retail Limited  unfairly closed his personal credit account after he 
complained about the quality of goods supplied. He wants  the account to be reinstated.
background
Mr N says that hed returned some  items  hed purchased to Studio as theyd been damaged.  
He says Studio replied  and upheld his complaint about his account not being credited with 
the refund  within the time required. But it had also notified him that his account was being 
closed. Mr N says he later had a telephone conversation about the account and was 
promised hed be sent a cheque for £1,000. But he states that he hasnt received this.
Studio told us thered been  25 complaints on the account in around four months  since March 
2018. So it had determined that the agreement didnt seem to be beneficial  to either party.  It 
stated that it had decided to clear  the balance of over £400  and cease  the account from 
trading. It later told us that it had no record of Mr N being offered £1,000 nor could it think 
such an offer wouldve  been made.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
relationship between Mr N and Studio wasnt working due to the number of complaints the 
account generated. And that it was reasonable for Studio to close the account. He said there 
was no record of the offer to pay Mr N £1,000 so he wouldnt expect Studio to do so.
Mr N didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that it might be disappointing for Mr N to have his account  closed.  Equally, Im 
not sure why - given  the volume  of recent complaints hed made  - he would wish to maintain 
it.
The relationship between a business and its customers is essentially a voluntary agreement  
which might  reasonably be expected to be based upon mutual confidence and satisfaction.  
When that relationship  breaks down or runs into difficulty its open to either  party to decide  to 
terminate the arrangement.
In the same  way that Mr N was free to take his custom elsewhere so it was that Studio was 
entitled to decline  to accept future business from him. We wouldnt expect a business  to do 
this without a good  reason. And Studio has explained that there  were  a high number of 
complaints arising  from the account. 
Where it feels  staff time is being  disproportionately and unnecessarily expended  on 
complaints arising  from one account, its fair for a business to terminate that account. The 
terms and conditions of the account  permit this. As it seems Studio also cleared  the debit 
balance which Mr N owed I cant say it acted  unfairly.
Ref: DRN86346812Mr N has additionally stated that he was promised £1,000 during a phone  call he allegedly 
had with Studio.  Mr N has been  unable to provide precise details of when  this call took 
place. And Studio has been unable to locate a recording of the call. Its not clear on what  
basis such on offer wouldve been  made. And in the absence of plausible  information to 
support the claim, I cant see any reason why Studio should be expected  to pay this sum to 
Mr N.
In summary,  I find Studio acted both fairly and reasonably when  it closed Mr Ns account. I 
shant be asking it to reinstate  the account  nor to pay any compensation in respect  of it. 
Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8634681