K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the advice he received from Financial Choices IFA, an appointed 
representative of In Partnership, a trading name of The On-Line Partnership Limited (OLP), 
to transfer his personal pension to a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP) to invest  in an 
unregulated fund. Mr C says the advice was unsuitable and hes suffered financial loss. 
background
Financial Choices IFA had been Mr Cs adviser for several years. In 2011 Mr C sought 
advice about investing in Ethical Forestry. Mr C had been given information  about the 
investment by a former associate.  Mr C asked Financial Choices IFA to look into it for him. 
Ive seen an undated financial planning  questionnaire (fact find).  It recorded:
Mr C was self-employed. 
His salary/drawings were £20,000  pa.
The personal pension  was his only pension provision.
Mr C was interested in investing in forestry.
He had a speculative attitude  to risk (ATR), described as: People in this category 
set their main priority  at achieving very high rates  of return on their 
capital/investment. They are aware  that in attempting to achieve  this aim that they 
are exposing  their capital/investment to a very high level or risk and this may at times 
cause them to lose the whole amount.
Mr Cs investment priority was retirement planning. He wanted to speculate with his 
pension fund. An old associate had contacted him about investing in forestry.  A note 
says the associate kept contacting Mr C to sell his pension fund and had provided  a 
list of SIPP providers  that could accommodate the forestry fund. 
Financial Choices IFA issued a suitability report.  The date on the front page is 18 July 2012. 
But the adviser signed it on 25 July 2011. I note that the SIPP was opened in December 
2011 which fits with the earlier date. I assume the advice  was given and the report was 
produced in 2011 and the later date was a mistake.  
Amongst other things the report  said: 
Mr C was self employed, a basic rate taxpayer and married with three  dependent  
children. He owned his own home,  valued  at £400,000 and subject to a mortgage of 
£220,000. 
Mr C wasnt  happy with the performance of his existing pension  and felt he should 
be more riskier with it to achieve better performance.
Mr C had been approached by a former  associate to invest  in forestry  which  Mr C 
was very  keen on but he needed an appropriate  SIPP  to complete the investment.  
He had a personal  pension  which was worth £61,600. He wasnt  making 
contributions to the plan. The provider offered a large range of funds and the adviser 
had suggested  funds that met Mr Cs ATR  an 8 (presumably out of 10). Mr Cs ATR 
was speculative, described as set out above.  
The following recommendation was made: 
I recommend to meet your requirements  that you invest  in funds that meet your 
[ATR] that have a well establish  attitude  to risk, that are liquid able. I would also 
recommend that you contribute to your pension when finances allow as this will
build up your pension  and increase income on retirement. 
Ref: DRN84504492You have  informed me that this is not an acceptable route  to take and that you wish 
to invest, via a SIPP,  in Ethical forestry.
After that, under  the heading,  Information only, the report said:
You have  decided to invest in the Ethical  Forestry  fund and you wish to use £22,000 
of your existing pension as you are not in a position to make  a contribution. It was 
agreed that this amount is transferred from your existing [personal pension] plan into 
a [SIPP] administered by [named provider]   chosen as they proved to be one of the 
least expensive and are able to accept these  types of investment.
A number of risk warnings were given, stated  to be applicable to a SIPP.  
The actual transfer value of Mr Cs personal  pension  was £62,816.80.  Of this, £22,000 was
transferred to the SIPP on 13 December 2011. Subsequently, on 25 January 2012,  £18,000  
was invested in Ethical Forestry.
In 2017 Mr C complained  about the advice hed been given. OLP issued a final response on 
21 February 2018. Amongst other things it said:
Mr C was originally approached by a Mr W, who was working on behalf of Ethical  
Forestry. That resulted in Mr C contacting his existing financial adviser  at Financial 
Choices IFA. 
It was recorded  at the time that Mr C was looking  to transfer out of his existing 
personal pension  to a speculative investment, via an old associate.  And his associate 
had kept contacting him and had provided  him with a list of SIPP  providers.
There was no reason to doubt that a discussion (with Financial Choices IFA) had 
taken place around Mr Cs understanding of a high ATR. The suitability report 
confirmed that. 
The adviser assessed the information  and completed research which  resulted in a 
recommendation that Mr C contribute to his existing  pension  plan when finances 
allowed. That was in line with the advisers  previous recommendation in 2007 when 
Mr Cs personal  pension plan had been  set up. Mr C had transferred in two pension 
plans totalling  £46,334.63.  His fund had increased to £61,600. 
Mr Cs ATR had had changed from balanced in 2007 to speculative. His existing 
provider offered a wide range of funds  to switch into. The adviser provided Mr C with 
a portfolio analysis  with funds  to meet his changed  ATR. But Mr C rejected that 
advice and wanted to invest in Ethical Forestry via a SIPP.  The suitability report  
records that what the adviser had suggested wasnt acceptable  to Mr C. 
Mr C chose to act against the advice and to proceed on an insistent client  and non-
advised basis. 
The adviser provided Mr C with information about a suitable  SIPP  to meet  his needs  
 to invest in Ethical Forestry. The adviser explained  the features of a SIPP and gave  
risk warnings  of using a SIPP.  Mr C was given  a key features  document and an 
illustration. He was encouraged to read the documentation carefully. There  was a 30 
day cooling off period. 
It was clear from the outset that Mr C had set his mind  on investing in the highly
speculative forestry investment. It was likely  hed have proceeded with the 
investment regardless  of any advice to the contrary.  He went ahead against the 
advice of his trusted  adviser of over six years.  Investments  in Ethical  Forestry  are the 
result of Mr Cs own actions in deciding not to follow the advisers recommendation.
OLP didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. It said hed chosen to proceed on an information 
only, non advised basis. 
Ref: DRN84504493Mr C referred  his complaint to us, via his representative, at the end of July 2018. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative said:
Mr C was originally approached by Mr W who was working  on behalf of Ethical 
Forestry. He told Mr C hed invested a significant  amount  in Ethical Forestry. Mr C 
then spoke to his financial adviser.  
Mr Cs objectives were:  better  performance and lower charges. He confirmed he had 
no previous investment  experience; a high ATR; and a low capacity for loss. 
Mr C was advised to transfer to a SIPP and invest in an unregulated investment 
without considering the suitability of the underlying investment or offering 
alternatives. 
The advice was negligent and unsuitable  for someone with no investment experience  
and a low capacity  for loss. 
Mr C didnt meet the definition of a sophisticated  investor and didnt have a certificate 
to say that he was.
The fact find was dated 2007.
Almost 30% of Mr Cs pension fund was invested in Ethical Forestry. That was an 
over exposure to high risk, unregulated investments and when Mr C had a low 
capacity for loss
The adviser was responsible for assessing  the suitability of both the wrapper and the 
underlying assets, including costs  and charges. The section in the suitability report  
points Mr C to a separate document.  Although the recommended  SIPP is said to be 
one of the least expensive theres  no clear comparison of the new SIPP costs with 
the charges that Mr C had been  paying.  
Neither the SIPP wrapper nor the non standard investment  were  suitable. The Ethical  
Forestry investment was illiquid  and contradicted  the advisers  recommendation. As 
the underlying  investment was unsuitable  the overall recommendation was also 
unsuitable. 
Thered been  a failure to comply with the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
rules. In particular COBS 2.2.2R; COBS  9.2.1R; COBS 9.2.3R.
Mr C had suffered financial loss. 
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She issued her view on 3 April 
2020. For the reasons she explained  she upheld the complaint and set out how Mr C should  
be redressed. In summary  she said:
Mr Cs circumstances werent properly assessed  prior to the transfer.  Hed been 
assessed as having a speculative ATR. But he wasnt in a position to take that level 
of risk. His existing personal  pension  was his only pension provision.  He was married  
with three dependent children and had an outstanding mortgage on his home. He 
didnt have the capacity for loss that would allow him to take a high degree of risk 
with his (only) pension.  If things had been  properly explained to him, it was likely hed 
have accepted a balanced  level of risk. The investment was too high risk for Mr C. 
The investigator referred to the regulators January 2013 alert (Advising on pension 
transfers with a view to investing  pension  monies into unregulated products through a 
SIPP).  The alert had been  published after the advice was given to Mr C but it wasnt 
a new requirement  but a reminder of what the rules in force at the time of the advice 
were. The regulator clearly states the underlying investment must also be considered  
when deciding whether a pension  transfer should be recommended.  The overall 
strategy must  be considered.
OLP had said that the adviser facilitated  the transfer on an insistent client  and non-
advised basis. COBS 9.5A hadnt been followed. Mr C hadnt been  given  a 
Ref: DRN84504494document saying  he was going against the advisers recommendation and the 
adviser had gone  on to say in the suitability letter that Mr C should transfer funds to 
the SIPP. 
The investigator didnt  agree  that Mr C would have gone ahead  in any event. The 
adviser had been advising Mr C for six years and had also advised  his wife. Its likely  
that Mr C wouldve listed to advice  not to transfer if it had been clear and if no 
recommendation had been given about  a pension vehicle to facilitate the investment.
Mr C didnt have enough knowledge and experience  to fully understand the risks
associated with this type of investment.  It wasnt suitable for his ATR realistically  
assessed or his capacity  for loss. He couldnt reasonably have  been  expected  to 
properly assess and understand  the risks involved in such  a specialist investment, 
including the lack of liquidity, fluctuating timber prices and the risk of disease or poor 
growth due to any lack of maintenance. 
Mr Cs representative confirmed that Mr C was happy with the adjudicators view. OLP didnt 
agree with the adjudicators conclusions.  It identified four key areas  of disagreement.  Ive 
summarised OLPs comments about each.  
ATR assessment
Mr Cs ATR in 2007 had been documented as balanced. OLP couldnt produce  a copy of the 
2011 assessment  of ATR. But the suitability report recorded that Mr C was unhappy with the 
performance of his existing pension and considered  he needed to take more  risk to achieve 
better performance. That demonstrates his ATR had changed  since  2007. The suitability 
report set out a definition of a speculative investor. Its likely that Mr C would have 
experienced significant reductions in his investment  as a result of the market  uncertainties  in 
2007/2008. But as the markets improved in 2011 he was prepared to accept more risk than 
a balanced approach because he wanted to potentially benefit from the markets recovery.  
He shouldnt have  been considered a balanced  investor. He wanted to improve  his pension  
prospects and was clearly  driven  to invest in the more risky Ethical  Forestry investment  
which was being  actively promoted to him by an old friend.
Not advising on an underlying investment
It wasnt the case that Mr C didnt have the opportunity to review or choose other investment 
options. The adviser provided an analysis  of his current  funds to counterpoint the sector 
analysis which was provided for forestry funds. Although the documents  werent included in 
the suitability report OLP was satisfied the adviser  and Mr C did review  them  and that thered 
have been a discussion around the funds with Mr Cs existing provider that were 
initially recommended.  Otherwise thered have been no reason for the adviser  to go to the 
trouble involved.  
Cleary Mr C rejected that and wanted instead to invest his pension  funds in Ethical Forestry 
which was being  promoted to him by his old friend. This shows he was no longer interested 
in the conventional funds  the adviser  was discussing with him but only in ensuring a SIPP  
was established  that would allow him to invest in Ethical  Forestry.  Thats  confirmed in the 
suitability report.  It records that Mr C had told the adviser that what he was suggesting 
wasnt acceptable and Mr C wanted to invest via a SIPP in Ethical  Forestry. The adviser 
recommended that Mr C invest in a portfolio  of regulated funds. But Mr C didnt want to 
follow that advice  and instead  wanted  the advisor to research and identify an appropriate  
SIPP so that Mr C could  invest  in Ethical Forestry.
Ref: DRN84504495COBS 9.5A
COBS 9.5A is guidance only.  And it wasnt included in the regulators handbook until 3 
January 2018,  nearly seven years after the advice in question.  But the adviser  had clearly  
recommended that Mr C invest in conventional funds as recorded  in the suitability report  
under the heading Recommendation. But Mr C was insistent regarding in the investment of 
his SIPP  via Ethical Forestry and advice given thereafter was to facilitate the request.  That 
demonstrated that Mr C didnt accept the original recommendation. 
Clarity of advice (Whether the client would have listened to advice had it been clearer)
OLP didnt agree, if the information been presented in a clearer way, that Mr C wouldve 
changed his ATR to balanced  and not made the Ethical Forestry investment. OLP believed 
Mr C would have wanted to proceed  despite  anything the adviser  said or did. OLP wasnt  
present at the discussions between Mr C and his old friend or associate. But it was clear 
from whats recorded in the suitability report (Mr Cs unhappiness with the performance of 
his existing portfolio;  his view that he needed to take a riskier approach; and his keenness  to 
invest in forestry following  an approach by a former  associate)  that Mr C found the other  
partys investment promotions  more persuasive.  It confirms  that Mr C was acting on other  
advice and was only looking  to the adviser  to facilitate it. Regardless of how the advice had 
been presented,  Mr C wouldnt have accepted the advisers original recommendations 
regarding conventional investments.
In conclusion OLP felt strongly that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. It also referred  to two 
of our published decisions on complaints made  against the SIPP  provider about  investments 
in Ethical Forestry. OLP said the complaint should  be directed at the SIPP provider. Our 
decisions show that the SIPP provider had a duty to carry out sufficient  due diligence  on the 
investment before accepting it into the SIPP. The SIPP  provider had failed to do that. Had it 
done so it was reasonable to conclude the SIPP provider wouldnt  or shouldnt  have 
accepted the Ethical Forestry  investment  into the SIPP. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. 
All Im considering here is the transfer to the SIPP and the Ethical Forestry investment. A 
transfer to another provider has also been mentioned. I havent  considered  that here. 
Ive addressed OLPs comments under the same  headings.
ATR assessment
No risk assessment  undertaken in 2011 has been  produced. But I accept, if Mr C had been a 
balanced investor in 2007, by 2011 he was thinking about taking a much  more speculative  
(or riskier) approach to his pension fund. The fact find and the suitability letter (although 
neither were  signed  by Mr C) both record that and set out the definition  of a speculative  
investor. Including that they accept that they are exposing  their investment to a very high 
level of risk which may at times result in the loss of the entire investment. But what  isnt clear 
is the extent to which that shift in ATR was discussed. And, in the absence  of any up to date 
risk assessment, we cant look at what information  Mr C gave about his ATR and whether  
Ref: DRN84504496the outcome,  that he now wanted to take a speculative approach  with his only pension fund, 
was credible. 
But, in any event, the degree  of risk that an investor  may wish to take isnt the only 
consideration. COBS  9.2.2R (1) (applicable  at the time) required a firm to reasonably believe 
that the transaction recommended not only met the clients investment objectives  but that he 
was able financially  to bear the related investment  risks and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved. I dont think either of those 
conditions were met. This was Mr Cs only pension provision. He wasnt  a member  of or 
contributing to any other pension arrangement (although I accept the adviser did recommend 
that Mr C did make  further pension provision  when he could afford  to do so). I dont think Mr 
C had the capacity for the loss that could result from investing about a third of his only 
pension fund in a high risk, speculative and unregulated investment. 
Nor have  I seen anything  to suggest that Mr C had any significant history of investing and 
certainly not in specialist,  non mainstream  investments.  I dont think he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved. I know  that OLP say the 
investment was discussed with Mr C and a brochure  has been produced. But its unclear 
exactly what might have  been said about  investing  in Ethical Forestry and, in particular, what 
Mr C really understood about the considerable risks involved.
I cant see that Ethical Forestry was a suitable  investment for Mr C. It was a high risk 
unregulated investment involving trees  grown  in tropical woodland  in Costa  Rica.  The aim 
was to harvest the trees and then sell them at a profit  to the timber trade. The investment 
was unusual, specialist  and with no track record. It wasnt  suitable for an inexperienced 
investor such as Mr C with limited pension provision  and minimal capacity for loss. I 
understand Ethical Forestry is now the subject of a criminal investigation by the Serious 
Fraud Office. Its highly unlikely that any of Mr Cs investment will be returned.
Its clear that the adviser did research funds available  with Mr Cs existing provider to match 
Mr Cs increased  appetite for risk. I take OLPs  point  about that supporting  what the adviser 
recommended  a move  to a portfolio of more  conventional higher risk funds with Mr Cs 
existing provider. I agree that was the recommendation  made.  And that Mr C rejected  it  the 
suitability report says that what the adviser  suggested wasnt acceptable to Mr C. But, 
having given advice, I dont think it was then open to Financial Choices IFA to proceed  on a 
non advised basis. Mr C should  have  been  treated as an insistent client.  Ive considered 
the ramifications  of that below. 
Not advising on an underlying investment
I agree  that other investment options were  presented to Mr C. And that Mr C rejected those 
in favour  of investing  a substantial part of his only pension fund in Ethical Forestry. That 
meant Mr Cs focus was on setting up a SIPP  which  would permit that investment. Financial 
Choices IFA did recommend a SIPP on that basis. OLP might argue that what  was said 
about the SIPP was under the heading  Information only. But I dont agree that the adviser 
only provided information. A named  SIPP provider  had been selected and recommended,  on 
the basis of competitive charges and the fact that it would accept the proposed investment.  
It wasnt open to Financial Choices IFA to restrict its advice to the choice of SIPP provider. 
The regulators 2013 alert makes it clear that consideration has to be given to the overall 
proposition  the wrapper and the proposed  underlying  investment.  The adviser knew  that 
he was recommending the SIPP  so that Mr C could invest in Ethical Forestry. That 
Ref: DRN84504497investment was unsuitable for Mr C which meant  that the SIPP  was unsuitable  too. So on 
that basis Financial Choices IFA gave unsuitable  advice.  
COBS 9.5A
I agree  that this provision is guidance  its title is Additional guidance for firms with insistent 
clients. I further agree that it didnt come into effect  until 3 January 2018  which  is some  
years after the advice Mr C is complaining  about what  given.  At the time the regulators 
handbook didnt refer specifically to insistent clients. 
But the regulator had issued a factsheet on 18 February 2016 (following the pension reforms 
introduced in 2015). Again the factsheet post dates  Mr Cs complaint. But it simply restated 
the existing position and didnt reflect any change  in the regulators rules.  It said that there 
are three key steps when advising an insistent client:
The adviser must provide advice that is suitable  for the individual  client,  and this
advice must  be clear to the client  that is the normal advice process.
 It should be clear to the client that their actions  are against the advisers advice.
The adviser should be clear with the client what the risks of the alternative course of
action are.
And, as far back as 1994,  a former  regulator (FIMBRA) published guidance  (about pension
transfers and opt outs)  which included the following:
The investors decision to override the advisers recommendation should also be credibly
evidenced. Disclaimer forms and pre-printed letters using  stock phrases should not be used
since they case doubt upon  the genuineness of the process. A note from the customer in his
own words is best.
Compliance officers will be expected to record the number of cases in which the investor
overrides the advice of financial advisers  within the organisation and to investigate
thoroughly those cases where  there  may be doubts  about the credibility of the actions taken
by the investor. 
All in all I dont think the position when the advice was given was that much different to what 
was later set out by the regulator in COBS 9.5A. I think  at the very least  a firm would be 
aware of the need to proceed  with caution  and to ensure that everything  was made very 
clear to the client (and could be evidenced if a later dispute arose).  
I dont think the advice was particularly clear.  The recommendation was that Mr C invest in a 
portfolio of higher risk funds with his existing provider. I dont think that recommendation was 
necessarily suitable  for Mr C, given what Ive said about his limited capacity for loss. But, 
even if it was, the adviser then went on to give unsuitable advice about the SIPP by failing to 
recognise that it wasnt open  to him to just consider the SIPP  wrapper. 
The suitability letter did record that Mr C had rejected  the advice to remain  with his existing 
provider and switch  funds. But I think it should  have  been  made much  clearer that what Mr C 
was planning  to do was against  the advisers advice, with the reasons clearly  set out. 
That would include a clear  statement  that the investment was unsuitable for Mr C and why  
essentially he couldnt afford to expose his only pension fund to the degree  of risk that the 
investment  an unregulated, specialist  fund with no track record   presented. And clear  
warnings of the risks involved, including that Mr C might lose all his investment should  have  
Ref: DRN84504498been given. I note that the definition of a speculative investor did say that could happen but I 
think that should have been  reiterated to Mr C in the context of the actual investment he was 
planning. 
Clarity of advice (Whether client  would  have listened  to advice had it been  clearer)
As Ive said I think the position should have  been made much clearer  to Mr C. As to whether 
hed still have gone ahead, there  is (and was)  no rule to prevent  an adviser from transacting  
business against advice if the client insists. And, as its up to firms to decide what  services 
they wish to offer, a firm can give advice  but decline to carry out the transaction.  So 
Financial Choices IFA could have acted for Mr C on an insistent client basis. 
But, as Ive indicated  above, firms who are prepared to act for insistent clients should have a 
process in place to deal with such clients. It will usually involve asking the client to sign 
documentation recording  that they are proceeding against the advice given. An insistent  
client may also be asked  to explain why they are prepared to act contrary to the advisers 
advice.
None of that happened in Mr Cs case. And, after saying that Mr C had rejected the advice, 
the adviser moved straight on to setting out how Mr C could do what  he was planning 
anyway. If it had been made clearer to Mr C that hed be acting contrary  to the advisers 
advice and why, that would have  given him an opportunity to think about whether he should 
go ahead. I think  most  consumers, when faced with clear advice from a professional adviser 
that the proposed course of action isnt suitable  and too risky would take the time to reflect 
on whether to go ahead. 
Here the adviser  had acted for Mr C for several years. OLP says Mr Cs willingness to 
disregard advice from a longstanding adviser  shows how committed he was to doing what 
his former  associate had suggested. But I think its more to do with how the adviser 
presented things and his failure to make  it clear that what  Mr C was planning was contrary  to 
his advice and why and that Mr C would  need to be treated as an insistent client.  The way in 
which the suitability  report was written is in my view somewhat ambivalent. I dont think Mr C 
would have fully appreciated the consequences of disregarding the advice in favour of what 
the other party had suggested.  
Theres no dispute that Mr C became interested in Ethical Forestry after being contacted by 
a former associate who was involved  in promoting  or selling the investment. I recognise  that 
sometimes the influence  of third party, typically a trusted  friend or relative, can be 
paramount. But here the contact is described  as a former associate which  doesnt  suggest a 
close or particularly influential relationship. 
That said,  the former associate may have been  persuasive and persistent. The note on the 
fact find suggests  the latter. And he may have  put some pressure on Mr C to agree to invest.  
I think the adviser should have recognised that sort of situation and the risk that Mr C had 
been persuaded to invest by an unregulated introducer who may have expressed very 
positive views about the investment and perhaps downplayed the risks. I think  if the adviser 
had made  clear the risks involved that would  have counter balanced what Mr C may have 
been told by his former associate about the investment. I think  that would have led Mr C to 
think again if the investment was really was right for him. 
OLP says Mr C found the other partys investment promotions more persuasive.  I think its 
more the case  that the adviser didnt  make it clear to Mr C why he couldnt  advise Mr C to do 
Ref: DRN84504499what he was proposing. I dont see that, regardless of how the advice was presented, Mr C 
wouldnt have accepted the advisers original recommendations regarding conventional 
investments. As things  stood Mr C rejected those in favour of the Ethical  Forestry  
investment. But, if the proposed investment been  properly addressed, I dont think  Mr C 
would have been so keen.  On balance I think hed have reconsidered.
Lastly Im aware of the two decisions OLP has referred to. They  relate to the SIPP providers  
obligations. Here  Mr Cs complaint is against his adviser. As Ive explained I dont  think  
Financial Choices IFA acted as it should  have  done.  In my view that caused  Mr Cs losses.  I 
dont think Mr Cs complaint should  be redirected to the SIPP provider. Further  I understand 
the SIPP provider  entered into administration earlier this year. So I dont  think  there are any 
real prospects of recovery against  the SIPP provider. 
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I uphold the complaint. I think the redress  suggested  by 
the investigator is fair and reasonable and Ive adopted it. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr C as far as possible in 
the position hed probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think Mr C would 
have invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done,  but Im 
satisfied what Ive set out below  is fair and reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances and 
objectives, properly  assessed, when he invested.
what should  OLP do? 
To compensate Mr C fairly OLP should:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest  set out below.
If there  is a loss, pay into Mr Cs pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The payment  should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  It shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the compensation cant be paid into Mr Cs pension plan, it should be paid direct to 
him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable  
income. Therefore  the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using  Mr Cs actual or expected
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if he is likely  to be a 
basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the 
current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would have been  able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If OLP considers it is required by 
HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr C how much it has 
taken off. It should also give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN845044910investment
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional
interest
Liberty SIPP still existsFTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of transferdate of 
settlement not applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. OLP should  take ownership  of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If OLP is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for
the purpose of calculation. OLP may wish to require that Mr C provides an undertaking
to pay OLP any amount he may receive  from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. OLP will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk. I dont 
think he should have  been advised  to accept more  than a balanced  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Cs circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. The On-Line  Partnership Limited must redress Mr C as Ive set 
out above. 
Ref: DRN845044911Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8450449