K822xcomplaint
Ms A complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, gave her incorrect
information when  she wanted to make  a lump sum payment to her mortgage.
background
On 23 March 2018, Ms A rang Halifax to ask about  making a lump sum payment to her
mortgage. She said that she had a choice of four different amounts. Miss A was on a fixed
rate product  which had an early repayment charge (ERC). So she asked how much shed
have to pay as an ERC,  and how much her monthly  payments would go down to, for each
option. The four amounts she asked about were £65,000, £60,000, £55,000 and £50,000.
The adviser gave  Ms A figures for all four options requested. For the £55,00 option, the
adviser told Ms A shed pay an ERC  of around £2,300, and her monthly  payment  would  go
down to £89.02.
Ms A paid off £55,000 on 10 April. But Halifaxs confirmation letter  said her new payment
would be £311.16.  She complained on 30 April, and said shed budgeted for the lower
amount. Ms A didnt hear anything and rang again in June.
Halifax listened to the call recording and agreed its adviser had made a mistake. It
apologised, and paid Ms A £300 for the distress and inconvenience  it had caused her. It
offered to refund the £55,000 Ms A had paid, and add interest  at 8% from the date of receipt.
Then Ms A could decide what  she wanted to do. Ms A told Halifax  shed like time to consider
her options,  and the bank said it would wait to hear from her.
Ms A complained to this service. She said shed been very badly affected by this, both
mentally and financially.  She said it was important that Halifax understood the consequences
an admin error could  have  on a customer. Ms A explained that shed had a serious illness in
2017, and shed received  a lump sum payment from her critical illness insurance. She said
her priority was to reduce  the mortgage  payments, so she could move to a less stressful job,
and, if she were ill again, her son could  cope with the mortgage payment.
Ms A said that shed  used the rest of her critical illness payment for other purposes. She
explained that if shed known the mortgage  payment would be £311.16, she wouldnt have
done this but would have  paid more off the mortgage. Ms A also said this was the fourth
complaint Halifax had upheld about her mortgage, so there was an ongoing problem  with
poor administration.
Ms A wanted Halifax to:
- reduce her mortgage  payment  to the £89.02 which it mistakenly quoted  in March; or
- pay her £12,256, which she said was the amount  of her critical illness payment which
shed used for other purposes.
The investigator didnt  uphold Ms As complaint. He asked Ms A how shed spent the
remaining amount  of her critical illness payment. She told him what shed spent the
remaining £14,765.53 on. This is a different figure from the £12,256 Ms A is claiming, but it
was broken down  into:
- £5,000  to her son, to help him through apprenticeship and college;
Ref: DRN84310412- £4,946.94  to pay off a credit card;
- £500 to a friend;
- £2,318.59  on a holiday;
- £2,000  to repay an overdraft.
The investigator noted that Ms A had made  payments  to credit card and overdraft balances.
The interest shed  have been  paying  on these would have been higher than on her
mortgage. And although this wouldnt have reduced  her mortgage balance, it would have
helped her aim of reducing her overall  debt if she couldnt work in future.
The investigator also noted that the £14,765.53, plus the £55,000 which  Ms A had paid off
her mortgage, came  to significantly  more  than £65,000, which was the highest of the four
options for which Ms A had asked  Halifax  for figures. So he didnt think  shed set all this
money aside to make a payment  to her mortgage.
But the investigator recognised the effect  Halifaxs mistake had had on Ms A, particularly
given her health and circumstances at the time. He said it was reasonable to expect Halifax
to have given  correct information. So he considered the banks compensation for distress
and inconvenience  should be increased to a total of £500.
Halifax agreed.
Ms A didnt agree. She said that as Halifax had told her the mortgage  would  reduce  to
£89.02 a month, it wasnt surprising that shed  used the rest of her critical illness payment in
other ways.  If Halifax had given her the right figures,  shed have paid off £65,000 off the
mortgage. She said shed always been advised  that a mortgage is a priority debt and that
was what shed aimed to do, knowing she could always pay £89.02 a month.
Ms A said the investigator hadnt  understood how terrifying it was to have had her medical
diagnosis and treatment.  She explained  that she was a single parent and her priority was to
ensure that her son had a home if she died. So paying off her other  debts werent priorities
as these wouldnt have  meant her son ended up without  a home.
Ms A was also unhappy that the investigator  thought shed have paid £5,000  towards her
sons apprenticeship and studies anyway. She explained that her sons  grandparents  had
offered to contribute,  but shed told them she could fund it. Ms A said the issue was the fact
that shed been misinformed  by Halifax. She said it was absolutely  her right to decide how to
allocate her critical illness payment.
She also said that it was important to take into account the fact that this was her fourth
upheld complaint about Halifax  in three  years. And this complaint had initially been  lost by
Halifax. So she believed there were systemic failures with Halifax.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. This included listening to the phone  call where Halifaxs 
adviser gave Ms A the wrong figures  for what her future  repayments  would be.
I said I was sorry  to hear that Ms A had had such a difficult time medically. It sounded  as if 
shed had a terrible  experience with her health.
Ref: DRN84310413But I explained that my job is specifically to look at the evidence  about what any bank has 
done wrong. And this service is bound by rules, which meant I could only look at the 
complaint which  Ms A had raised with us. I couldnt take into account  the fact that she says 
shed had three other complaints which Halifax upheld. If Ms A wanted us to consider other  
complaints shes previously raised with Halifax, and she was within  the rules about  
timescales, shed need to bring them to this service separately. I couldnt take them into 
account in considering what would  be fair for this complaint
.
In Ms As complaint, it was clear  that Halifaxs adviser made a significant mistake  when she
gave Ms A figures which were so wrong.  Theres a lot of difference between £311.16 and
£89.02 as the monthly payment. So I found  that compensation should be paid, and I went on 
to assess how much would be fair and reasonable.
The aim of any compensation payment we tell a bank to make is to compensate  the
consumer for the distress  and inconvenience  suffered.  Its not intended as a fine, or as a
general punishment  of the business. We look at the circumstances of the individual case.
Factors include the degree of inconvenience, and the period over which the problem
occurred.
Looking at timescales, at the end of the 23 March phone call, Ms A asked the adviser to put
the figures in writing  for the four options, and also the account details for how to pay. I
hadnt seen any such letter.  But with or without  receiving  written confirmation, Ms A paid
£55,000 on 10 April.  At some point between that date and 30 April when she complained,  Ms
A received Halifaxs letter and discovered  something  was wrong.
So the period when  Ms A had incorrect information was somewhere between  three  and just
over five weeks: from 23 March to a date between 10 and 30 April.
It was clear from Ms As 23 March phone call that she was only considering a figure between
£50,000 and £65,000. The figure she actually paid off was £55,000.  So the maximum she
might have paid off would only have been £10,000 more. It wasnt  the £12,256 or
£14,765.53 which she says was the rest of her critical illness  payment.
Ms A pointed out that it was her right to decide  how to allocate  her critical illness payment.
Thats correct, and I didnt  comment on how she decided to split it. But she was saying shed
have used some of it to pay another £10,000  off her Halifax  mortgage. To accept this, Id
have needed to see evidence that shed had the extra £10,000 available  to her when she
paid £55,000 on 10 April. And Id also have needed  evidence that she spent it all between 
23 March and the date when she received Halifaxs letter showing the correct information  
and that the spending  was irreversible.
And although all the figures which Halifaxs adviser gave Ms A were wrong, they were
proportionately wrong. In other words, she was told the following figures:
- if she paid off £65,000, her future monthly payments would be £4.19;
- if she paid off £60,000, her future monthly payments would be £46.61;
- if she paid off £55,000, her future monthly payments would be £89.02;
- if she paid off £50,000, her future monthly payments would be £131.44.
Theres quite a lot of difference between these  in terms of future monthly  payments up to
2029. But Ms A chose  the £55,000 option  which wasnt one which meant her future
payments would be as low as possible.  And although these figures werent  correct,  they
were in proportion.  So the same  proportions applied to the correct figures. So I consider Ms
Ref: DRN84310414A might well still have chosen the £55,000  option,  if Halifax had given her the right
information on 23 March.
So the time when Ms A had incorrect  information was relatively short. I didnt have  evidence
that during that time Ms A had the extra £10,000  available, or that the money  she said she
could have used  was all spent  and couldnt  be recovered  during that time period. And I
considered it was possible that she might  still have chosen to pay off £55,000 if Halifax  had 
given her correct information. On the other hand, Halifaxs mistake  was significant. And 
although Ms A didnt  tell Halifax, it was a particularly  stressful  time for her. Taking  all these  
factors into account, I provisionally found that Halifaxs original payment of £300  was too 
low, and the figure that would be fair and reasonable is £500. This meant thered be a 
balance of £200 still to be paid.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ms A didnt reply to my provisional  decision.
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision  and said it was happy to pay an additional  £200  for 
any distress and inconvenience caused.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my original  conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order My provisional  decision is that I 
intend to uphold this complaint and to order  Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, to pay 
Ms A a further £200 compensation,  making £500  in total, for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by its mistake in the figures it provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8431041