K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) gave him unsuitable advice about transferring his 
occupational pension funds into a Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with unregulated 
investments, which caused him to suffer a financial loss.
background
Mr B had known Mr F for around 20 years. Mr F had been a mortgage  adviser  and Mr B had 
been happy with the advice hed been  given. They were on friendly terms, although  Mr B 
says he would go years  between seeing  him. Mr F was a trusted  source of financial advice.
Mr B had three pensions.  He was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS) with 
BAE Systems. Over  15 years of service  hed accrued a fund with a transfer  value of around 
£95,000. In 2012 he received advice from Mr F about how this could be put to better use. He 
recalls stipulating that he only wanted his funds to be invested in blue chip companies.
Mr B was advised to switch out of his BAE Systems plan and into a SIPP with Westerby 
Trustee Services Limited (Westerby). Its records for this transaction  indicate that at the time 
Mr B was a client of the firm Joseph Oliver Mediacao de Seguros LDA (JOMSL) and that Mr 
F operated  as an adviser on its behalf.
I set out the events of 2012  as background because they are relevant to points  that have 
been made by both parties in relaying  their understanding of events in this case. However,  I 
wont be considering  the switch of Mr Bs BAE Systems pension plan in this decision. Thats 
because it involves different regulated parties  against which  hes now brought  separate  
complaints.
Mr B had also built up pension provisions with Capgemini during 17 years of service.  One 
element of this was a defined benefits (DB) scheme,  this had a total transfer value of around 
£244,000 and came  with certain guarantees. In addition, Mr B had accumulated  around  
£65,000 in a defined contribution plan also overseen by his employer.
Mr B again  received advice from Mr F about  his pension  arrangements in early  2014. This 
time Mr F presented himself as being associated with Abana.  Ill set out more fully the 
individuals and organisations  involved in what  happened  to Mr B later in this decision.
Ultimately Mr B was persuaded to transfer  his Capgemini pension,  worth around £309,000 - 
which enjoyed valuable protections - into a SIPP with Avalon  Investment  Services Limited 
(Avalon). Mr F completed  the paperwork in April 2014 and Mr B signed to give his 
agreement. Funds were  transferred  in June 2014.
Mr B took tax-free cash (TFC) of around  £77,000.  So, after allowing  for a small cash balance 
to service the arrangement, the bulk of his residual pot of around £225,000 was invested 
through a business called ePortfolio  Solutions . Initially monies appear to have been placed  
with the Brighton SPC - Kijani  Commodity Fund (Kijani) and the Swiss  Asset  Micro Assist Inc 
Fund (SAMAIF).
Ref: DRN82877412The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) engaged  with Abana when it became aware the firm 
may have  been  operating in the UK outside  of its permissions. At the relevant time, Abana 
was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under the insurance  mediation 
directive (IMD). However,  it appeared to be providing services in the UK, namely  giving 
advice and making arrangements in relation to pensions, without the top-up permissions it 
required from the FCA.
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether it had been suitable, and if it hadnt 
been to assess  any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy  service specialising  in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out this review.
In October  2015, Mr B was asked by the independent consultancy  to provide information 
about the events leading  up to the transfer  of his pension funds. It wrote to him again in 
February 2016 with its conclusions.  It said the advice hed been given to establish  the SIPP 
and invest in unregulated funds had been unsuitable. It noted an agent  of Abana   Mr F - 
had been responsible.
The consultancy set out what steps  Abana should take to put Mr B back into the position  he 
wouldve been in had the transfer not taken  place. By the summer  of 2016 Mr B still hadnt 
received compensation and so he complained to the businesses he thought were 
responsible. 
None of the parties Mr B contacted accepted  it was at fault for what  had happened to him 
and so he brought his complaint to this Service in June 2017. He said that the advice he 
received amounted to mis-selling. And that the loss of his pension funds has caused him 
considerable hardship, forcing him to apply for income support.
Abana submits  that Mr F who carried out the transaction with Mr B wasnt its appointed 
representative (AR), or its agent. So Abana says its not responsible for the acts or 
omissions in this case and challenged our jurisdiction to consider Mr Bs complaint against  it.
The investigator concluded that we could look into Mr Bs complaint. And after considering  
the merits of the case he went  on to uphold it. Abana disagreed and so this case has been  
passed to me to consider.  Before moving on, Ill deal with a few of the matters raised by 
Abana in responding  to this Service at various points in time over the past few years.
Abana has said Avalon, as the SIPP provider, was regulated and allegedly  accepted 
business introductions from an unregulated party and instructions to buy unregulated 
investments. It says Avalon had a responsibility to carry  out due diligence.
Abana also questioned  why Avalon agreed new terms  of business with the entities New 
Beginnings Ltd and [Mr F] Associates, suggesting it was because  the clients its being held 
accountable to werent meant to be added  to its agency. It has suggested collusion between  
Mr F and that SIPP provider, resulting in the complaints it now faces.
Abana has said Avalon gave false information to the specialist compliance consultancy  
which was commissioned to look into the advice Abana had given various clients. It says that 
consultancy was negligent in how it conducted the reviews.
Ref: DRN82877413Abana cites a fund management company as having responsibility for the SIPP  investments. 
And it questions actions taken by the FCA in 2015  which it says couldve  had a material  
impact on the losses of some complainants.
What Abana  asserts may or may not be the case in relation to other regulated and 
unregulated firms and individuals. But Im not considering a complaint against those parties 
here. Mr B has brought his complaint against Abana and thats  what I need to address.
We cant join third parties to a complaint to help shed light on whats happened in a case.  
Whilst we do have  powers to require parties  to a complaint to provide information to us, we 
cant compel anyone  who isnt a party to the complaint to provide evidence.
Abana will be aware, a court does have  powers to compel third parties to give evidence and 
to be cross  examined. Its free to pursue  other parties it feels  may have been  responsible to 
whatever degree  for whats happened  to Mr B and for exposing it to any claims and costs 
that it now faces. But thats  not something this Service can help with.
Abana has also told us that in a meeting it held with Westerby  and Mr F in May 2013, it was 
told some  SIPP products were insurance based  and therefore compliant  under IMD 
permissions. It seems  to be saying it was misled  by other parties  into thinking it could carry 
on the activities that are the subject of this complaint. Whatever the case,  as a regulated firm 
its responsible for its own regulatory  compliance and its own acts and omissions.
Abana hasnt  provided much information and evidence from the time of the events 
complained about.  In relation to other  cases it said recently that this Service  hadnt asked it 
for information. Im afraid that position isnt credible.
The cases  Ive seen  have  been ongoing  now for many years. Abana has been asked for the 
information it holds  in relation to these complaints. For example, the following is an extract 
from a letter  this Service sent to it in August 2017  about Mr Bs complaint:
what you need  to do now
So we can consider the complaint, we need you to send us:
- a copy of your files  including the fact find, key features and reasons why letter,  if 
relevant (we will not be able to return your files while we investigate)
- the underwriting file (if applicable) with a copy of the relevant policy
- any brochures or promotional literature
- a full statement of the firms case
- any other evidence  you want us to take into account.
Im satisfied Abana has had ample  opportunity to make  its case.
Abana has offered arguments  in support of its position at various  points over the past few 
years, and more  recently in response to our investigators opinions and some  decisions this 
Service has already  issued.
Ref: DRN82877414Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the arguments Abana has posed. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. And I wont be commenting further on decisions that have already been 
issued  those  cases are now closed and Abana  must adhere to any requirements placed  on 
it. 
While Ive taken account and considered all Abanas  submissions, Ive concentrated my 
findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint. That means the 
arguments Abana has made, including its most recent submissions to this Service on this 
case, where these  are material to my consideration and the outcome reached,  are 
addressed as appropriate in this decision.
So, Ill now turn to whether this Service has jurisdiction in this case concerning  the transfer of 
Mr Bs Capgemini OPS funds into a SIPP with Avalon and the unregulated investments 
made therein.
my findings
the parties involved in this case
Before I decide  whether  this Service has jurisdiction to consider Mr Bs complaint against 
Abana, I thought it would be helpful  to set out some of what  we know about  the parties who 
may have  been  involved  in the transaction leading to this complaint.
There were several entities and individuals who could potentially  have been  involved, and 
the relationships  between  them arent entirely  clear. Some  information is missing. Some 
firms no longer exist as a going concern. So, in this regard, and given the passage  of time, 
the case is difficult to get to the bottom  of.
However, weve been provided  with some helpful  documents by Avalon, the provider of Mr 
Bs SIPP scheme. And these documents have been  used to help us build a picture of the 
key relationships between the various parties.
Abana Unipessoal Lda
Abana is a Portuguese advisory  firm that, at the relevant time, passported into the UK under 
the IMD on a branch passport. So, at the relevant  time,  it was an EEA  authorised firm.
Abanas business model appears to have  involved generating fees from advisors conducting 
activities in the UK. It has previously been  attached to several firms and individuals (see tab 
Appointed representatives / tied agents  / PSD or EMD agents under Abanas entry on the 
Financial Services Register (the Register)).
Mr F.
Mr F is a central figure in this complaint. As Ill set out later in this decision,  its Mr F who 
provided Mr B with advice  about  his Capgemini OPS and arranged  for the funds to be 
transferred to the SIPP with Avalon (and to invest in the unregulated Kijani and SAMAIF 
funds). One of the matters I will need to establish  is whether in conducting those activities, 
Mr F was acting  on behalf of Abana (either as its AR or its agent).
Ref: DRN82877415Mr F isnt listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana. However, this isnt a requirement 
under section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA),  so its not 
determinative of whether  or not he was acting as Abanas AR. I will examine the relationship 
between Abana and Mr F in more detail below.
New Beginnings  (Financial Solutions)  Limited (New Beginnings)
New Beginnings  was listed on the FCA register as an AR of Abana  from 11 March  2014 until 
6 February 2015.  Mr F was a minority shareholder  of this firm.
Weve been provided with a copy of the AR agreement between Abana  and New Beginnings 
which is dated 7 March 2014. The recitals  of the agreement set out the following:
WHEREAS:
(1)The Company  [Abana]  is in the business  of international  wealth  management,  life 
assurance  and general  insurance  mediation  and is authorised  and regulated  by the 
lnstituto  de Seguros  de Portugal  ("ISP")  with registration  number  412378472.  The 
Company  has established  a branch  in England  with company  registration  FC031241  
with limited  regulation  by the Financial  Conduct  Authority  ("FCA")  number  597069  
and authorised  by the DGSFP  In Spain.
(2)The Company  hereby  appoints  the AR [New Beginnings] as its appointed  
representative,  subject  to the terms  of this agreement  whereby  the Company  
shall  authorise  and the AR shall  conduct  the Activities  defined  herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  for which  the Company  is authorised,  as agreed  
between  the parties  as detailed  in the Schedule  hereto  (as amended  from time to time);
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any 
person  or persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the 
AR and any person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We were not provided with a copy of the Schedule  referred to in the agreement.
[Mr F] Associates
[Mr F] Associates isnt a legal entity or company in its own right. It appears to be a trading 
name Mr F began using for activities he was carrying out from a certain  point in time.
Mr F told Avalon that he was in the process  of getting his own FCA authorisation (he had 
previously been  submitting  business  to Avalon using Abanas authorisation number). He 
made an application for new terms of business  on 28 May 2014 and this was acknowledged  
by Avalon, which at that point noted internally his intention to leave Abana.
In June 2014 Mr F and Avalon were  trying to finalise the arrangements for Mr F to be 
submitting business  to them on his own account. For example, the parties  discussed  
ensuring appropriate letters of authority for Mr Fs clients were in place and were in the 
process of agreeing when payments to his new  agency would be effective from.
Mr Fs FCA authorisation hadnt  been received by July 2014, so he agreed with Avalon  that 
in the interim, business would be conducted through New Beginnings, with [Mr F] Associates 
acting as part of that network.
Ref: DRN82877416Avalon Investment Services  Limited
Avalon was a UK based SIPP provider  and administrator,  regulated  by the FCA.
Amongst other activities, it was authorised to arrange deals in investments and to establish,
operate and wind up a pension scheme. 
An Avalon  SIPP was used to make  the unregulated investments that Mr B is unhappy  about.
Avalon was placed into administration  in February 2016 and was dissolved in August 2018. 
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) is currently considering claims 
against the firm (see https://www.fscs.org.uk/failed-firms/avalon/).
can our Service consider  Mr Bs complaint against Abana?
the jurisdiction of the ombudsman service 
The ombudsman service  can consider a complaint under  our compulsory jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more  listed activities,  
including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1 R). A firm includes an incoming EEA firm. Abana  
was, at the relevant time, an incoming EEA firm.
DISP 2.3.3 G provides  further guidance on what acts or omissions can be considered as a 
complaint and sets out that (bolding is my emphasis):
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the firm 
 is responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which  
the firm  has accepted responsibility).
So, there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether  this complaint can 
be considered  under  the compulsory jurisdiction  of this service:
1.Were the acts about which Mr B complains  done in the carrying  on of a regulated  
activity?
2.Was the principal firm, Abana responsible  for those acts?
were the acts Mr B complained about done in carrying on a regulated activity?
Mr B has complained about Abanas  role in him receiving unsuitable pension and investment 
advice. And the subsequent arrangements made  on his behalf to transfer his Capgemini  
OPS funds to a SIPP with Avalon and make  investments in the Kijani and SAMAIF funds.
Section 22 of FSMA defines "regulated  activities"  as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried  on by way of business and
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes  any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means  specified in an order made by the Treasury.
Ref: DRN82877417The relevant  Treasury order is the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (RAO). Article  4 provides:
"4.  Specified  activities:  general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds  of activity for the purposes of section 
22(1) of the Act (and accordingly any activity of one of those  kinds, which is carried on by way 
of business and relates to an investment  of a kind specified by any provision  of Part III and 
applicable to that activity, is regulated activity for the purposes of the Act)."
Article 82 of the RAO provides that rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified 
investment. A SIPP is a personal pension scheme.  So, giving advice about a SIPP is a 
regulated activity. Abana has provided an interpretation of an exchange it had with the FCA 
in 2015 as an argument why the activity it was involved  in wasnt regulated.  Ill provide my 
thoughts on its argument later in this decision.
Weve not been provided  with much of the paperwork you would expect to accompany such 
a significant transaction  although we do have testimony from Mr B about Mr Fs 
involvement in providing him with advice.
Nevertheless, I think its highly unlikely Mr B wouldve  embarked  on a high-risk  investment 
strategy using his Capgemini pension provisions without this course  of action being 
recommended to him. Hed built up his funds over many years.  It seems more  likely than not 
he received advice that motivated him to make  the transfer.
Im satisfied Mr F gave advice to Mr B to transfer his personal pension plans and invest  
through a SIPP  with Avalon. I understand Mr F told Mr B that the unregulated investments 
would perform better than his existing pensions. I think Mr B trusted  the assurances he got 
about the safety of the funds, which is why he was persuaded to make the transfer.
In addition, under Article  25(1) RAO,  making  arrangements for another person to buy and 
sell a specified investment is a regulated  activity.  And Article 25(2) RAO says making 
arrangements with a view to a person  who participates in the arrangements  for buying and 
selling these types of investments is also a regulated  activity.
The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements  
that would  have the direct effect  that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
It then says the following about  Article  25(2):
The activity of making arrangements  with a view to transactions in investments  is concerned  
with arrangements of an ongoing nature whose purpose is to facilitate the entering into of 
transactions by other parties. This activity has a potentially broad scope and typically applies 
in one of two scenarios. These  are where a person  provides  arrangements of some  kind:
(1) to enable or assist  investors to deal with or through a particular firm (such  as the 
arrangements made by introducers); or
Ref: DRN82877418(2) to facilitate the entering into of transactions directly by the parties (such as multilateral 
trading facilities of any kind exchanges, clearing  houses and service companies (for 
example, persons who provide communication  facilities for the routing of orders or the 
negotiation of transactions)).
Mr Fs details, including his signature  were  included on Mr Bs ePortfolio  Solutions 
application. And both this and his SIPP documentation had Abanas details on. He 
transmitted the applications  and Avalon dealt with him as the key contact. Mr F led it to 
believe that he was introducing business  with Abanas authority.
PERG 12.3 makes it clear that the circumstances in which rights under  a personal pension  
scheme may be bought or sold include  when  the member first joins the scheme and 
acquires all the rights that the scheme  provides to its members (since  he has bought  those 
rights).
Mr F transmitted the authorised paperwork to Avalon which facilitated Mr B opening the 
SIPP and the investment  in the unregulated funds. Im satisfied that this constitutes the 
regulated activity of arranging  the pension scheme  with Avalon. And, Im satisfied  that the 
actions of Mr F constitute making  arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment  under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Abana says its taken  advice about the regulations. It asserts  that it can rely on certain  
exclusions in the RAO  (which, if applicable,  would bring the activities  outside  the scope of 
Article 25). For example, it says that the exclusion at Article  29 applies because  Mr F was an 
unauthorised arranger.  As Ill set out later in this decision, Im satisfied Mr F was acting as an 
agent of Abana. So, Abana is the authorised person here. And its arguments are not telling.
Abana also refers  to the exclusion set out at article 33 and says that an independent fund 
manager was appointed  to manage  the assets of the SIPP.  Asset Management International 
(AMI) was a non-regulated fund management  organisation  that was associated  with 
ePortfolio Solutions.
But Ive seen no evidence  that Mr F, Avalon or anyone  else were introducing Mr B to an 
appropriate party under  the provision it references.  I think, Mr F on behalf of Abana, made 
the introduction  to Avalon  as an authorised  person. But this wasnt  for the purpose for it to 
provide independent  advice or the independent  exercise of discretion in relation to 
investments generally  or in relation to any class  of investments to which the arrangements 
relate. So, the exclusion at article  33 doesnt  apply.
Im satisfied that this complaint involves regulated activities  giving advice on transferring 
from OPS pension arrangements  to a SIPP with Avalon and investing in unregulated funds 
and making arrangements  to give effect to these matters.
was Abana responsible for the acts and omissions of Mr F?
The next thing  I must  consider is whether Abana is responsible for the acts and omissions  of 
Mr F. As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP  2.3.3G  says (bolding is my emphasis):
complaints about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)".
Ref: DRN82877419Appointed representatives
Section 39 FSMA sets out the following:
Exemption of appointed representatives.
(1) If a person (other than an authorised  person) 
(a) is a party to a contract with an authorised person (his principal)  which  
(i) permits  or requires him to carry on business of a prescribed 
description, and 
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(b) is someone for whose activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business  
his principal  has accepted responsibility  in writing, he is exempt from the general 
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted responsibility.

(2) In this Act appointed representative means
(a) a person who is exempt as a result of subsection (1)
(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he 
had expressly  permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative  in carrying on 
the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
(4) In determining whether  an authorised person has complied with
(a) a provision contained in or made under  this Act,  anything which  a relevant person has 
done or omitted as respects business for which  the authorised person  has accepted 
responsibility is to be treated as having been done or omitted by the authorised person.
(5) Relevant person  means a person  who at the material time is or was an appointed 
representative by virtue of being a party to a contract with the authorised person.
So, a firm is answerable  for complaints about  the acts or omissions of its AR in relation to 
the business it has accepted responsibility  for in writing. I therefore  need to determine 
whether Abana had accepted responsibility  - in writing - for the acts being complained about 
here i.e. the advice  given and the arrangements  made by Mr F.
The law of agency  
As set out above, a firm may also be responsible  for the acts or omissions of its agents 
(DISP 2.3.3G). So in the alternative, I will need to consider whether Mr F was acting  as 
Abanas agent in relation to the acts complained about, and whether it is therefore 
responsible for Mr Bs complaint on that basis.
Agency is where  one party  (the principal)  allows another  party (the agent) to act on its behalf 
in such a way that affects its legal relationship with third parties. Broadly speaking, there are 
two types of agency I will need to consider: (1) actual authority, either express or implied,  
and (2) apparent (also  called ostensible) authority. 
The textbook Bowstead & Reynolds on Agency (21st Ed) sets out the following about actual 
authority [chapter 3, article 22]:
Ref: DRN828774110Actual authority
Actual authority  is the authority which the principal  has given the agent wholly or in part 
by means of words or writing (called here express  authority) or is regarded  by the law as 
having given him because  of the interpretation  put by the law on the relationship and 
dealings of the two parties.  Although founded in the principals assent, the conferral  of 
authority is judged objectively.
Diplock LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer v Buckhurst Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 
480 [at paragraph 502]:
An actual authority  is a legal relationship between principal  and agent  created by a 
consensual agreement  to which they alone are parties. Its scope is to be ascertained  by 
applying ordinary principles of construction of contracts, including  any proper implications 
from the express words  used, the usages  of the trade, or the course of business  between 
the parties. To this agreement the contractor is a stranger: he may be totally  ignorant of 
the existence of any authority on the part of the agent. Nevertheless, if the agent does 
enter into a contract  pursuant  to the actual  authority, it does create  contractual rights and 
liabilities between the principal and the contractor.
So, actual authority is a legal  relationship between the principal  and agent  created by an 
agreement to which they alone  are parties.  It may be express, for example a written  contract  
or oral agreement.  Or it can be implied , where  the authority can be concluded from the 
conduct of the parties or the circumstances of the case  that consent has been given for 
certain acts to be carried out by the agent  on behalf  of the principal.
And Bowstead & Reynolds  sets out the following  about apparent  authority [chapter 8, article 
72]:
Apparent (or Ostensible) Authority
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  that 
another person has authority to act on his behalf, he is bound  by the acts of that other 
person with respect to anyone dealing with him as an agent on the faith of any such  
representation, to the same extent as if such other person had the authority that he was 
represented to have, even though he had no such actual authority. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to act 
in some way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so doing  the 
principal represents  to anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the 
agent has authority  to enter on behalf  of the principal into contracts with other persons of 
the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his principals business has usually  
"actual" authority to enter into.
Ref: DRN828774111So, the question  I must  consider here is whether Abana (as principal) allowed Mr F (the 
agent) to act on its behalf in relation to conducting the activities Mr B has complained  about.  
And whether this was done with the express  or implied agreement of Abana  (actual  
authority), or whether  the evidence shows Mr B relied on a representation made by Abana  
(or that Abana allowed  to be made) that Mr F had its authority to carry out the acts 
complained about.
The advice given  and the arrangements made  by Mr F.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Mr Fs dealings with Mr B were either (1) in his 
capacity as an AR or agent of Abana,  (2) in his own unregulated capacity  (i.e. as [Mr F] 
Associates, or (3) as part of the New Beginnings Network.
The advice given  and the arrangements made  for the transfer of Mr Bs Capgemini OPS  
funds, including  the authorisation and transmission of his documentation for a SIPP with 
Avalon and his application  to ePortfolio Solutions,  and effecting the investment in 
unregulated funds, were  dealt with by Mr F. Avalon relied on the authority  it understood him 
to have in these matters.
So, having  reviewed the evidence, I think the advice and arrangements in Mr Bs introduction  
to Avalon were  conducted by Mr F on behalf of Abana because:
-The main elements of the transaction happened in April 2014   this is before he told 
Avalon he was leaving Abana and provided  new terms of business  for it at the end of 
May 2014. Before  this Mr F had been  submitting business to SIPP providers  in his 
capacity as an agent of Abana and using its authorisation  details.
-Further, Mr Bs application paperwork required  identification of the financial adviser 
firm, Mr F filled this in with Abana Lda. And he provided its FCA reference number 
on the associated  documents. Mr F signed to this effect  as required, including other 
paperwork for example  to confirm  Mr Bs identity.
-Mr Bs testimony is that Mr F gave him advice and that hed been told by him that he 
was working on behalf  of Abana.
Given what Ive seen  in this complaint and in other similar cases, Im satisfied Mr F advised 
on and arranged Mr Bs SIPP with Avalon while he was still an agent of Abana  (and not in 
his capacity as an unregulated introducer  when he was purporting  to seek direct 
authorisation for [Mr F] Associates, or as part of the New Beginnings Network). From the 
documentation Ive seen, Im also satisfied he wasnt representing JOMSL in this instance.
Ref: DRN828774112did Abana accept responsibility for this advice and arrangements under section  39(3)  
FSMA?
I now need to consider  whether Mr F did in fact have authority to act on behalf of Abana in 
advising on and arranging Mr Bs SIPP with Avalon and the investment in unregulated funds. 
Weve been provided with an agreement  between Abana and Mr F which purports to be an 
AR agreement. This was provided  by Abana when we first became  involved in these cases 
in February 2016.  The agreement states the following:
THIS AGREEMENT is made this 1st day of May 2013
BETWEEN:
(1) ABANA Lda, a company registered in Portugal under  number 510205410("the Company"); 
and 
(2) [Mr F] (a person) of [specified address] ("the  Appointed Representative or AR").
WHEREAS:
(1) The Company is in the business of international  wealth management, life assurance and 
general insurance mediation and is authorised and regulated by the Institute de Seguros de 
Portugal ("ISP") with registration number 412378472. The Company is authorised to conduct 
business in the UK under  the regime  of free provision  of services within the European Union and 
has been authorised as such by ISP and the Financial Services Authority ("FSA")  with FSA 
registration number  597069.
(2) The Company hereby  appoints  the AR as its appointed representative, subject to the terms of 
this agreement  whereby the Company shall authorise and the AR shall conduct the various  
activities defined herein.
The definition section  of the agreement sets out:
"Activities"  means  the activities  agreed  and discussed  between  the parties  on execution  of 
this agreement,  as amended  from time to time,  which  the parties  may further  clarify  in an 
annex  hereto,  in default  of which  such  activities  shall  include  activities  defined  in FSA 
Regulations  as insurance  mediation  activities  and designated  life assurance  business;
"AR"  means  the AR (as set out above)  and any employee,  officer  or agent  or any person  or 
persons  acting  in conjunction  with or appointed  by or under  the control  of the AR and any 
person  or persons  connected  with the AR
We werent provided with a copy of the annex  referred to in the agreement,  but I note that in 
default the agreement shall include activities defined in FSA Regulations as insurance  
mediation activities and designated life assurance  business,  so Ive taken this into 
consideration.
The agreement is signed by both parties.
The arrangements  made  in connection with the SIPP and the underlying investments for Mr 
B didnt  constitute  insurance mediation activities or life assurance business  both of which 
relate to contracts  of insurance.  So, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied the terms 
of the AR agreement  didnt authorise Mr F to conduct the arrangements that he carried  out 
for him.
Ref: DRN828774113As such,  I conclude Abana  didnt  accept responsibility in writing  under the statutory regime  
of section 39 (3) FSMA for Mr F to arrange this transaction in his capacity  as an AR of 
Abana. And, so it isnt responsible for the acts of Mr F in this case  on the basis of section 39 
FSMA.
In its response to this Service, Abana suggests  the AR agreement  is a fraud. It noted the 
font on the final signed page was different from the rest of the document. It says the 
agreement weve relied on didnt have Mr Fs original (wet) signature on it. It says the 
agreement wasnt enforceable because it didnt  have all the elements required to be a valid 
contract. And that because  it was void, it wasnt submitted to the FCA register and therefore 
Mr F didnt  become a regulated AR of Abana.
Ive carefully considered  Abanas submission. I can see that the last page of the copy  of the 
agreement  which contains the signatures  of the parties - is in a different font from the rest 
of the document. And as Ive already acknowledged  Mr F was never listed  on the FCA 
register as an AR of Abana.
However, Id note it was Abana  which provided  the copy of the agreement to us that it now 
asserts is a fraud. In an email to this Service in 2016, responding to an enquiry about Mr Fs 
role with Abana, it told us We have  not been  able to locate a written  agreement with [Mr F] 
as an individual.  To this it attached  the agreement. Later it explained it had meant it couldnt 
find a document  with his original signature.
In a recent  submission, Abana said that when it spoke to one of our adjudicators in February 
2016, it made clear  it could only locate a copy of a terminated AR agreement and that he 
asked for it to be forwarded anyway.
Abana seems  to be acknowledging here that there was an agreement, but that it was 
terminated. In any case,  while I cant find a recording of the conversation between it and the 
adjudicator in February 2016, Ive seen  an exchange  of emails during that month between 
Abanas Director and the adjudicator. At no point  was a terminated AR agreement  
mentioned. The exchange was focussed  on understanding  the nature of the relationship 
between it and Mr F.
I dont find Abanas arguments persuasive. When it first sent the AR agreement to us, it 
made no comment on its veracity or that what it was forwarding to us was a fraud. And it 
didnt say the document hadnt  been signed  by the parties. I wouldve expected Abana to 
have provided  this important commentary at the time, not four years later.
Im satisfied that the AR agreement  Ive seen is genuine and indicative of the relationship  
between Abana and Mr F. My conclusion is bolstered by what Abana  has told us about  its 
connection with him; and the emails Ive seen between Abana and Mr F, and between 
Abana and SIPP providers  which I set out in more  detail below.
Ill now go on to consider whether Abana may have given  Mr F authority to conduct  pensions 
business on its behalf under common law principles  of agency. This, as previously set out, is 
provided for under DISP  2.3.3 G.
Ref: DRN828774114was Abana responsible for the arrangements made by Mr F acting as its agent?
In analysing whether  there was an agency  arrangement I need  to understand what  was 
contracted between  the parties  in order to determine whether or not the relevant activities Mr 
F carried  out were within the scope of what had been authorised  and agreed to by Abana 
(i.e. had Abana given its actual authority for Mr F to carry  on those activities on its behalf?).
In addition to the AR agreement, there  are several  other batches of evidence that are 
important to my consideration here.
the pension activities  and arrangements Mr F was undertaking
Abanas told us that it knew  that Mr F was involved with pension  activities when it entered  
into a relationship with him. In 2016  it told us:
The relationship was that [Mr F] was a qualified IFA with a client  base that he had built up 
while he worked for [JOMSL] with Westerby products. These clients were  transferred to 
Abana and he would continue to assist those clients. Abana  obtained a [sic] agency with 
Westerby and provided a home  for his clients. [Mr F] paid us £5880  annually for this 
temporary service as he said he was going  to be directly authorised.  This agreement was 
superseded when [Mr F] introduced New Beginnings Ltd who became an appointed 
representative of Abana.
Abana says this arrangement, which it still acknowledges,  was for a fixed-fee for the 
caretaking of an existing client base for a temporary  period. It said the arrangement didnt  
confer any authority  to Mr F.
I think it demonstrates that Abana expected Mr F to carry  on pensions  activities  and 
facilitated this by entering into an agency  agreement with Westerby.  Further,  theres a 
pattern of contemporaneous evidence which bolsters my finding that Abana knew Mr F had 
a significant and ongoing involvement in pension activities, acting on its behalf.
For example, Ive seen  a letter from Abana to Westerby  dated 17 May 2013 about the 
transfer of clients from JOMSL. It requests that these  clients are held in a new sub-agency  
for identification purposes and directs that all commission payments under this sub-agency 
be paid to a particular account.  That account was in the name  of Mr F.
As Ive already  set out, Mr B was persuaded by Mr F - when he was said to be working  for 
JOSML - to switch his BAE Systems  pension into a Westerby SIPP in 2012. And it appears 
he was one of the clients  who was subject  to the agreement which  saw clients move from 
JOMSL to Abanas books.
Subsequent advice provided and the arrangements made by Mr F  on this occasion  when 
he was associated with Abana  to transfer  Mr Bs Capgemini OPS to an Avalon SIPP  
happened in April 2014. This was well after the transfer of clients had happened.
Theres an interesting email exchange  in early  March 2014  in which Westerby  requests an 
urgent meeting with Abana. It writes:
I need  to get our meeting in the diary. We have a number of questions to ask which  really  
are just for us to get a better understanding of Abana, where  you get your leads from and the 
way you implement your compliance  and oversight.  We now have a fair number of cases 
introduced by [Mr F] and we just need  to monitor the relationship.
Ref: DRN828774115And Abana responds:
We have tried to coordinate a meeting with Mr F but he is leaving  on two weeks holiday 
from Friday and is fully bookedwe understand [Mr Fs] clients are from referrals. All case  
fact finds and notes  are uploaded to our secure  client portal to be reviewed  by our 
compliance and available  to the client
Abana says this communication  related to business  Mr F transferred from JOMSL. I think the 
exchange shows the SIPP provider understood the relationship to be that Mr F was working 
on behalf of Abana and it was attributing the business Mr F was submitting to it as being 
business done on behalf of Abana as principal.
Furthermore, I think it shows  Abana was aware of the significant  number of pension 
business introductions Mr F was making  on its behalf. And that it tried to give the SIPP  
provider assurances  about the records it was keeping for all the clients (fact finds and notes)  
and the compliance  arrangements  it had in place to check things were  being done correctly.
Interestingly, theres correspondence between Abana and Mr F in April 2014  around the 
time he was giving Mr B advice about and making  arrangements for the transfer of his 
Capgemini OPS - about the nature of the services he was providing. 
Abana says this appears to be in relation  to a suitability report  of an existing transferred 
SIPP. Its Director  says this was a personal  email,  and Mr F appears to want  feedback 
because he mayve provided similar opinions  for Mr F when he worked  at JOMSL.
In the email Abanas Director tells Mr F (my emphasis):
Ive had compliance  read through the SL report and here are their comments re investment. 
I should add that we should tell the clients we are not regulated  to give advice on funds and 
they should seek further assistance if they do not want to do it themselves. Let me know  
what you suggest please?
This doesnt seem to me to be a personal exchange.  And I dont find Abanas explanation to 
be credible. I think the email is reflective of Abana giving  Mr F guidance on how he should  
be constructing the suitability reports for what were  effectively its clients,  following a review 
by its compliance team.  Its quite directive  in tone and suggestive of a principal / agent 
relationship.
The advice from Abanas compliance function to Mr F focused on investment funds. There 
was no similar concern  expressed about the pension advice or arrangements Mr F was 
making. Otherwise, I wouldve expected this to have  been made clear as well.
I think taken together,  this package of evidence demonstrates the following:
-The written agreement between  Abana and Mr F shows that there  was a relationship 
between the parties under which they anticipated that Mr F would carry out certain  
activities on behalf of Abana.
Ref: DRN828774116-Unlike the requirements of section 39 FSMA,  Abana  and Mr F could agree in a more 
informal way that Mr F had authority to conduct  pensions business on behalf of 
Abana, such as through the dealings between the parties. Im satisfied  based  on the 
evidence that Abana  was aware  of, and consented  to, Mr F carrying  on these  
pension activities on its behalf  and that consensual agreement  to conduct these 
activities can be gleaned from the dealings between the parties.
-Mr F was not directly authorised by the FCA. The communications  between Abana 
and Mr F that I have set out above  show that Abana entered  into a relationship with 
Mr F so that he could continue to provide  advice  to clients on the basis of Abanas 
authorisation (they would become Abanas  clients  who Mr F would continue  to 
assist). And it shows  that Abana knew Mr F was providing advice to consumers to 
open SIPPs, in fact it entered into terms of business with a SIPP  operator  so that Mr 
F could provide  the same for clients.
Further, Abana has said that in a meeting it held with Westerby and Mr F in May 2013,  it was 
told some  SIPP products were insurance based  and therefore compliant  under IMD 
permissions. It seems  probable it didnt  properly understand the business  it was becoming 
involved with.
In June 2015 it sent some of its clients a letter which I think  is very telling,  it begins:
IMPORTANT: Advice given to you by Abana Lda ("Abana") in relation  to your SIPP 
with Westerby Trustee Services LimitedWhy are we writing to you?
I am writing to you with reference to the advice you received by your former  advisor [Mr F] 
concerning your investments held with Asset Management International (AMI)  under your 
[SIPP]. It has recently come to our attention  that Abana  were not authorised  to give the 
advice we gave  to you regarding your investments as we do not have the correct  regulatory 
permissions
Whether Abana was or wasnt misled by other parties into thinking it could carry on the 
activities that are the subject of Mr Bs complaint, the fact as acknowledged in this letter is 
that it was responsible for its own regulatory  compliance and its own acts and omissions  in 
that regard.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F did have Abanas actual authority to undertake pension activities, 
including arranging SIPPs,  on its behalf.
payment of adviser  charges  made  by SIPP providers for business generated by Mr F
Ive already mentioned a letter Ive seen  from Abana to Westerby  dated 17 May 2013 about 
the transfer of clients from another advisory  firm. It directs that all commission  payments 
under its sub-agency be paid to a particular  account in the name of Mr F. Abana sent a 
further letter to Westerby in November 2013 confirming  bank account details for its ARs and 
sub-agents, in which Mr Fs bank account details were updated.
Abana says its never received any fees for the advice Mr B received  from Mr F and it points 
to this as proof that he wasnt its client. I can see from the paperwork he wasnt  charged an 
upfront fee for the advice he received in 2014. The ePortfolio application  confirms  this, but 
that also indicates that hed be paying an ongoing management or trail fee worth 1% of the 
value of his fund. Presumably this was paid by the SIPP provider into one of the accounts  it 
had been notified of by Abana.
Ref: DRN828774117As an aside,  we were  also told by Avalon,  about payments made to Abana  for business 
introduced by Mr F before the end of May 2014. Ive seen statements to this effect where  
Abana is shown  as the introducer  and the total payment (which  included  charges for multiple 
clients) was due to it. But unfortunately, its not that straightforward.
I can also see that from April 2014  Mr F was liaising with Avalon to clarify what commission  
payments were being made  they appeared to be coming through as a lump  sum and he 
couldnt work out how the payments related to different clients.
Mr F asked  Avalon for more information about  the transactions.  He said the payment side 
was done from Portugal (where the main Abana group is based), so it was important for him 
to get a better breakdown  of what the payments represented. Avalon appears  to have acted 
on his request to ensure he received a copy of future commission  statements  to his own 
business address.
Communications between  Mr F and Avalon continued through  May and June  2014  and 
increasingly became  about remuneration arrangements  following his planned establishment  
of [Mr F] Associates.  And then when this didnt work  out, there were  discussions about 
channelling payments to the New Beginnings network. It was agreed  that fees would go 
direct to him in future, subject to certain conditions being met.
The position  gets muddled for several  reasons.  Avalon started withholding  some  commission  
payments to Abana, giving  Mr F an opportunity  to get his clients to sign letters of authority 
(LOA) to transfer oversight of their SIPP affairs from Abana  to his new agency. 
Its clear getting the LOAs in place was problematic. And this may shed light on Abanas 
testimony in a number  of the cases were looking at when  it says it didnt receive payments 
from Avalon in respect of certain transactions. I think the following email from Avalon to Mr F 
from September 2014 is instructive:
We are being chased by Abana to supply them  with details of adviser charges paid in the 
last quarter. As you know we have  held back payments to them  pending receipt of LOA from 
you for 13 clients but we are now being put in a difficult position with regards  to payment on 
these. Can I have your thoughts. We will have little choice other than to make payment to 
them if we cant have  the LOAs in the very near future.
Ive thought carefully about what all this means.  Consistent with what  Ive set-out elsewhere, 
I think the information supports my finding  that Mr F was acting on behalf of Abana  until the 
end of May 2014,  even though he appears to be hatching plans to work  on his own account 
prior to this. I think  Abana was expecting payments to flow back  to it for this business, as it 
had done with other transactions,  and when it didnt it queried  the position  with Avalon.
Although I dont know what payments Abana ultimately received for the reasons Ive set out, 
I do think the evidence  here demonstrates  that Mr F was given actual authority to undertake 
pension activities on behalf  of Abana. And that working on behalf of Abana wouldve 
expected to have received payment for the services he provided.
Ref: DRN828774118the independent review  of pension transactions attributed to Abana
Abana acknowledged the outcome of an independent review into several cases  that have 
been dealt with by this Service. The reviews  concluded Mr F had been responsible for 
unsuitable advice  he gave and the arrangements  he made for the transfer of pension funds 
into SIPPs, and therein the investment  in unregulated funds. 
In order to pay the redress due, Abana made a claim on its professional  indemnity  
insurance. So, this was another example we have that for some  time it accepted  
responsibility for the things Mr F had done  wrong.
Abana ultimately changed its position. It says its initial notification to clients of the things that 
it had got wrong  and the subsequent offer to pay redress wasnt an admission of liability. It 
says it felt under an obligation following the FCAs intervention. It said the review work 
conducted by the regulatory compliance  consultancy was flawed. It makes various 
allegations, including that the review relied on incomplete and false information from by SIPP  
providers.
Ive thought about what Abana has said here.  I dont find its arguments  convincing. If the 
review work was fatally flawed, then Im surprised it made a claim to its insurers on that 
basis. And it hasnt provided  any evidence of its assertions.
Actually, from what Ive seen I think its likely Abanas later repositioning here had more  to do 
with its professional indemnity insurer rejecting its claim to cover the compensation costs. I 
note in December  2017 it wrote to the FCA in the following terms:
Since the FCA is of the opinion  thatour PI insurers,  will not be able to cover any redress  
by virtue of the fact that [Mr F] was acting outside the remit of regulated activity, the victims  
are thus left in the unfortunate and unfair position  of not being  able to receive any redress 
whatsoever.
In respect of Mr Bs case specifically, Abana has said his details were  included in the review  
by mistake after Avalon  incorrectly added him to the list of cases  to be reviewed by the 
specialist consultancy. It says Mr B was offered redress he wasnt entitled to. But it hasnt 
provided material evidence to support its assertions here. And Ive not seen anything which 
makes me think what happened to Mr B shouldnt have been  included in the review. 
Ensuring its agents were  only given authority to operate within the scope of its own 
permissions was Abanas responsibility. As Ive already  set out, it was aware of what 
activities Mr F was undertaking.  Even if it didnt realise what  he was doing would have the 
effect of nullifying or being beyond its insurance cover  because his activities  fell outside  the 
scope of Abanas permissions, it shouldve done.
So, I think Abana notifying its clients  that something had gone wrong, the review process it 
engaged with and its initial acceptance  of the redress proposals  is significant and is another 
indication that it had in fact given  Mr F authority to act on its behalf  in arranging SIPPs,  such  
as Mr Bs.
Ref: DRN828774119Abanas website
Abanas website  around the time of the events  complained about appears to have shown  Mr 
F listed  as a pensions/financial adviser and part of The Abana  Team. It includes a photo  
of an individual  that purports to be him. We obtained this information from an online 
resource. Mr Fs details  remained  on the Abana website until at least December 2014.
Abana disputed  these  matters. For example, it says the historic  website  pages  referenced 
were draft. It says Mr Fs description is incomplete and this shows  he didnt make  it onto the 
Abana team. It told us the supposed  photo  of Mr F wasnt him.
Abanas argument here has some merit. Ive checked and the image that appeared on its 
website wasnt Mr F. And I dont know whether Mr Fs details were  published  externally  or as 
Abana suggests the pages  were just draft.
However, in the context  of everything  else Ive seen, I find the fact the web pages exist at all 
is in itself significant and more likely than not reflective of a close association between  the 
parties. And it therefore bolsters the evidence that Mr F was acting with Abanas  actual  
authority in conducting pensions activities such as arranging SIPPs.
Abanas engagement with the FCA in 2015
In responding  to some earlier decisions which have been upheld  against it, Abana 
questioned the jurisdiction  of this Service citing communications it had previously with the 
FCA on this matter. I can see that Abanas Director  sought advice  from the FCA on 2 
February 2015. His email  was as follows:
Dear X, regarding FCA authorised firm 597069 Abana Lda. Thank you for advising  me 
earlier of the rule book  regarding  SIPP advice  I have read the following chapters that you 
referred me toMay we ask the following questions:1. Can we advise UK residents on 
SIPPs under  our inward passported UK branch IMD permissions?...
I can see the FCA responded  on 16 March 2015  saying (bolding  my emphasis):
In respect  of your question as to whether  you can advise UK residents on SIPPs under an 
inward UK branch IMD passport. We understand that by UK residents you mean potential 
members or actual members  of SIPPS.  These types of schemes are set up under a trust 
arrangement whereby  the member is a beneficiary  of the trust and the benefits  to which  they 
are entitled  will be secured through the rights under the insurance  policy  being held by the 
trustee. Normally the trustee operates/holds a separate  scheme  and insurance contract for 
each member. On that basis the IMD passport would  not be sufficient and you would 
be required to seek a top-up permission.
This is because arranging to obtain  rights under an existing policy is not IMD business  and 
to be precise the member  would be entering  into a trust relationship not an insurance 
contract. Additionally, the IMD would not generally apply to post conclusion activities such as 
arranging deals in and advising on subsequent  transactionsSo the IMD would not extend  
to advice within the pension  (e.g. investment decisions on where to invest),  transfers 
of benefits to or from the pension and advising on and arranging the taking of 
benefits.
This is consistent with my findings elsewhere in this decision.
Ref: DRN828774120Rather than supporting its position  on jurisdiction, I think  this exchange  of emails in February  
and March 2015 is revealing that even at this time Abana still didnt know until it received 
FCAs advice whether or not it had permission  to provide the services it had been up until 
that point.
Taking all these matters together with the other  information Ive already set-out in this 
decision, theres a substantial  weight  of evidence and argument  here.  And Im satisfied this 
demonstrates Mr F was acting as an agent  of Abana.
One of the positions adopted by Abana is that it was duped by Mr F and various other  
parties, in respect  of what happened in this and other cases. Recently it quoted a judgement 
WM Morrison Supermarkets plc (Morrisons) v Various Claimants (Supreme Court,  1 April 
2020. It drew on this outcome to infer that a principle cant  be held responsible for a 
dishonest agent.
Leaving aside that it again seems  to be accepting something which it has previously argued 
against i.e. that Mr F was its agent,  I dont find the facts and circumstances of the particular 
Supreme Court judgement it quotes  to be telling in the matter  Im considering.
I think Abana was aware of, expected, facilitated,  guided and benefitted  from the activities  
Mr F was undertaking, including giving advice on and making arrangements  for SIPPs.  I 
think Mr F had its actual  authority to do this on its behalf.
Even if Abana wasnt fully aware of everything  Mr F was doing, as Ill set out later,  that isnt a 
defence here. It had to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs  responsibly  
and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
So, I think Abana is responsible for Mr Fs acts and omissions.
The arrangements  in this case involved more than just pensions  business   Mr F also made 
arrangements for the ePortfolio Solutions bond  and unregulated investments, for example 
including his details  on Mr Bs application form and liaising with that business  on his behalf. 
But, even  if Abana didnt  give its actual  authority for Mr F to conduct these matters  (and only 
intended him to be carrying  on pension business), theres well established case  law that if 
theres one act that was authorised by the principal,  we may be able to look at other acts 
linked to it.
In Martin v Britannia [1999]  EWHC 852 (Ch) (21 December 1999) and Tenetconnect 
Services Ltd v Financial Ombudsman  and another  [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) (13 March  
2018), the courts held that advice couldnt be confined to one part of an overall  transaction 
and that acts can be intrinsically linked.  I agree  with the investigator  when he says this 
case is analogous.  The arrangement of the SIPP and the subsequent investments in 
unregulated funds were  so closely connected that they were  intrinsically linked   part of the 
same transaction.
I think Abana can be held responsible for the advice it gave and the arrangements it made 
for the transfer  of Mr Bs Capgemini OPS funds into the Avalon SIPP  and the investments in 
unregulated funds, which together ultimately  resulted in the financial loss hes suffered.
Ref: DRN828774121In a recent  submission to this Service, Abana has said this Service had failed to provide any 
evidence that there  was a relevant relationship  between Mr B and itself,  as required under 
DISP 2.7.6. Im satisfied that the detailed evidence  and findings Ive already set out, for 
example the documentation associated with Mr Bs SIPP  and investment fund applications 
include the details  of Mr F and Abana, clearly  demonstrate that he is an eligible complainant.
Abana was keen to draw my attention  to evidence that Mr F was AR of JOMSL. I can 
confirm Ive seen  a copy of the AR agreement  which appears to be effective from either  15 
December 2011  or 1 July 2012.  Ive also seen a letter from JOMSL to Westerby dated  17 
May 2013 confirming  that Mr F had given his notice to terminate that agreement and that he 
was free to move his clients (and as we know, they were  transferred to Abana).
Abana has also drawn my attention to Mr Fs relationship with Westerby,  for example it 
provided a business card with his and Westerbys  details on. I dont think the fact that he had 
an association with the SIPP provider is in dispute.
Further, Abana has referred to a letter Mr B sent to JOMSL in 2016 complaining about his 
SIPPs with Westerby and Avalon and the associated investments.  It says this shows  that he 
knew JOMSL was his adviser. But this is a rather blinkered reading  of the correspondence. 
I say this because  Mr Bs complaint letter makes clear hed always  thought  Mr F worked  for 
Abana. It was Westerby which told him JOMSL were responsible for the advice and transfer  
of his pension.  And so he was following up on what hed been told.
Actually, Westerby was referring  to the transfer of Mr Bs BAE Systems pension,  which  was 
moved to one of its SIPPs in 2012,  apparently following Mr Fs involvement on behalf  of 
JOSML: But this was an earlier  and separate transaction to that conducted  by Mr F in 2014 
when he was Abanas agent  and advised  Mr B to transfer his Capgemini OPS to an Avalon 
SIPP.
my conclusions on jurisdiction
I conclude this is a complaint  that this Service can consider.  In summary this is because:
-Mr Bs complaint is about both the advice  and the arrangements  for the transfer of his 
Capgemini OPS funds to the Avalon SIPP and the investments made therein. So, its 
a complaint about regulated activities.
-We can consider Mr Bs complaint about the advice given and the arrangements 
made by Mr F. This is because Im satisfied that he was responsible for the transfer 
of his Capgemini OPS  to a SIPP with Avalon and the investments made  therein,  as 
an agent with the actual authority of Abana. It follows that Abana is responsible for 
his acts and omissions in this regard.
considering the merits of Mr Bs complaint
As Im satisfied this Service has jurisdiction  to consider Mr Bs complaint about  Abana in 
relation to the advice given and the arrangements made by Mr F, Ive gone on to consider all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case.  And, after careful  consideration,  Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN828774122The documentation  I have  from around the time of the events is incomplete. Abana  provided 
very little information about Mr Bs case.  For example, Ive not seen a fact find covering his 
circumstances, nor a record of his objectives for his pension arrangements. Theres  no 
document which captures Mr Bs capacity for loss. And I havent seen a report  with 
recommendations.
In relation to another case Abana  has said recently that this Service  hasnt  asked it for 
information. Im afraid that position isnt credible. The cases  Ive seen have  been  ongoing 
now for many years. Abana has been asked  for the information it holds in relation to the 
complaints, for example  in Mr Bs case a request was first sent in August 2017. Its had 
ample opportunity  to make its case.
Mr B has provided us with testimony and some  documentation  which  is relevant to the 
events hes complained about.
For reasons I can understand, several of Abanas former customers  who have found 
themselves in a similar situation to Mr B have formed an informal  group  for communicating  
progress. Ive not seen anything that concerns me about this development.
Nevertheless, as I wouldve done in any event,  and in respect of both parties, I generally 
give more weight to testimony and evidence which is more contemporaneous with the 
events complained about. Thats  because  it tends to give a more accurate account  given  the 
effect of the passage of time and the potential for the benefit of hindsight  to colour matters.
Fortunately, weve been able to obtain  some relevant paperwork from other sources,  
including Avalon as the provider of Mr Bs SIPP. As previously established, this has been 
important in evidencing the role Mr F played on behalf of Abana in bringing about the 
transfer of Mr Bs pension  funds.
While theres conflicting  information about  what happened in 2014 and gaps in what  we 
know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats  most  likely to have  happened.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Bs case?
The first thing I considered in relation  to Mr Bs complaint is the extensive  regulation  around 
transactions like those performed by Mr F who Im satisfied  was acting as Abanas agent.
The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These  
include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
Ref: DRN828774123The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They provide the overarching framework for regulation  and must always be 
complied with by regulated firms  like Abana. As such, I need  to have regard to them in 
deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the then Financial Services Authority published a checklist  for pension  switching that 
I think is still helpful today.  It highlighted four key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer has been switched  to a pension  that is more expensive 
than their existing one(s)  or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ref: DRN828774124In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. 
The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3%-5%  of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).
Even if the investments made via his Avalon SIPP werent part of a UCIS, they shared  
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid and 
subject to valuation  uncertainty. So, I think these FCA findings are also relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to self-invested personal 
pensions (SIPPs) that invest wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid unregulated 
investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
did Abana, through the acts and omissions of Mr F, adhere to the regulatory requirements  
placed on it in effecting the transfer of Mr Bs Capgemini OPS  funds into a SIPP?
I dont think Abana met the regulatory requirements  placed  on it. Ill explain why.
Mr B had known Mr F for around 20 years. Mr F had been a mortgage  adviser  and Mr B had 
been happy with the advice hed been  given. They were on friendly terms, although  Mr B 
would go years between  seeing him. Mr F was a trusted  source of financial advice.
Mr B had received  advice  from Mr F when hed worked on behalf of JOSML. Hed given him 
advice about what to do with his BAE Systems  pension  in 2012. By the time he sought 
advice in 2014 about his Capgemini OPS, Mr F told him he worked for Abana.  He says he 
had no reason to doubt this, he recalls the office branding  where meetings took place and 
stationary including Mr Fs business cards confirmed such.
Ref: DRN828774125At the time of the event complained about, Mr B was around 55 years old. He wanted to 
retire before he reached 60 because as a carer  for his wife that wouldve allowed him to 
work part-time while still supporting her.
Mr B had built up his pension provisions with Capgemini during 17 years of service.  One 
element of this was a defined benefits (DB) scheme,  this had a total transfer value of around 
£244,000 and came  with certain guarantees. In addition, Mr B had accumulated  around  
£65,000 in a defined contribution plan also overseen by his employer.
Mr B says that in his discussions  with Mr F he made it clear he didnt  want to take any risks 
with his pension  funds. He says he wouldve been  happy if his new arrangements  had only 
shown a 2% return above  inflation. The investments  were supposed  to be made in a mixed 
portfolio with a low/medium risk profile.  After  all, Mr B said, his pension had taken years to 
build up.
Ultimately Mr B was persuaded to transfer  his Capgemini pension,  worth around £309,000 - 
which enjoyed valuable protections - into a SIPP with Avalon. Mr F told him he wasnt  
recommending Westerby  as the SIPP provider  this time because  he wasnt happy with its 
management team. Mr F completed the paperwork  in April 2014  and Mr B signed  to give his 
agreement. Funds were  transferred  in June 2014.
Mr B took tax-free cash (TFC) of around  £77,000.  So, after allowing  for a small cash balance 
to service the arrangement, the bulk of his residual pot of around £225,000 was invested 
through a business called ePortfolio  Solutions . Initially monies appear to have been placed  
with the Brighton SPC - Kijani  Commodity Fund (Kijani) and the Swiss  Asset  Micro Assist Inc 
Fund (SAMAIF).
Shortly after Mr B had transferred his pension, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
engaged with Abana when it became aware  the firm may have been operating in the UK 
outside of its permissions.
At the relevant time, Abana was an EEA authorised firm and passported into the UK under 
the insurance mediation directive (IMD). However, it appeared to be providing services in the 
UK, namely  giving advice  and making  arrangements in relation to pensions, without the top-
up permissions it required from the FCA.
Abana has told us the FCA directed that an independent third party  should  review the advice 
the firm had given  UK consumers to determine whether it had been suitable, and if it hadnt 
been to assess  any detriment. Abana has said that a consultancy  service specialising  in 
regulatory compliance was appointed to carry out this review.
In October  2015, Mr B was asked by the independent consultancy  to provide information 
about the events leading  up to the transfer  of his Capgemini pension funds. It wrote to him in 
February 2016 with its conclusions.  It said the advice hed been given to establish  the SIPP 
and invest in unregulated funds had been unsuitable. It noted an agent  of Abana   Mr F - 
had been responsible.
The consultancy set out what steps  Abana should take to put Mr B back into the position  he 
wouldve been in had the transfer not taken  place. By the summer  of 2016 Mr B still hadnt 
received compensation and so he complained to the businesses he thought were 
responsible. 
Ref: DRN828774126None of the parties Mr B contacted accepted  it was at fault for what  had happened to him 
and so he brought his complaint to this Service in June 2017. He said that the advice he 
received amounted to mis-selling. And that the loss of his pension funds has caused him 
considerable hardship, forcing him to apply for income support.
Mr F, as Abanas agent, had to obtain information from Mr B in order  to understand essential 
facts about him. In order to advise him to transfer his OPS funds into the Avalon SIPP and 
invest in the unregulated funds, Mr F had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Bs investment objectives (including  
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr B was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mr B had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Ive not seen a fact-find covering Mr Bs circumstances, nor a record  of his objectives for his 
pension arrangements. I havent  seen  a recommendations report. And I havent seen a 
comparison of the performance,  costs and benefits of his then existing Capgemini OPS with 
what was being  proposed.
As with a couple  of other Abana cases,  its managed to obtain  documentation late on in the 
process which its called on to support its position.  In this instance it found  a supplementary 
SIPP questionnaire, it says was completed, signed and dated by Mr B. It highlights  his 
responses and selections  to certain  questions. Extracts from this follow:
"Does your job provide you with any experience in relation to the type of investment that you 
are considering within your pension  fund ... Yes
I have worked in Financial  Services and as part of my job I am aware of the different types of 
investments and compensation levels.
I have a good investment knowledge  and understand the risk associated with the different 
types of investments available  and the compensation rules  surrounding  these.
Maximising growth with a mixture of higher  risk, specialist  and mainstream investments 
[investment outlook].
I am happy to accept  that an investment that I make within a SIPP  may not be regulated  by 
the FSA and as such would not be protected by their rules. 
I am capable  of making my own investment decisions and simply wish a SIPP to allow me to 
make these."
Abana says this may shed  light on why Mr B didnt pay a fee and why theres no evidence  
advice was provided. Ive thought carefully about  this information and what its said and 
would make the following observations. 
At the top of the form Abana told us Mr B completed,  it says (bolding is my emphasis):
If you are considering a transfer  into a SIPP  and are considering investing into unregulated  / 
alternative investments  and or [sic] will be instructing your SIPP provider directly then prior 
to us providing  you with an advice report  on the suitability of this option,  you must 
complete this questionnaire  in order for us to verify how suitable these  investments 
are for you.
Ref: DRN828774127We will not provide advice or process a SIPP application where we believe alternative 
investments to be the case without this questionnaire having been completed in advance.  
Please complete this as accurately as you can. The information provided  will be used by 
us as part of our advice  to you.
So actually, I think this is more evidence Mr F, on behalf of Abana, was involved  in providing 
Mr B with advice and making  arrangements  for the transfer of his Capgemini pension. 
Although the questionnaire doesnt  have branding, its dated at the beginning of April 2014 
and so is contemporaneous with when  the events complained  about  were taking place.
Mr B says he never received a copy of the SIPP questionnaire. He reiterated  that contrary  to 
its contents, he had a low/medium risk appetite.  His pensions had been built up over many  
years  he says he wouldnt have wanted  to put them at risk. He didnt have any other  
pension provisions aside  from his former BAE Systems and Capgemini schemes.  Mr B 
characterised himself  as a novice in terms of his experience of investments.  He had no 
shares or savings.
Theres a significant  variance between Mr Bs testimony and whats  captured  on the 
questionnaire Abana  has forwarded  to us. I tend towards Mr Bs account.  For example, hes 
told us hes never worked in financial services. Hes a business process and IT specialist 
whos worked across defence and retail. His testimony seems to be borne out given the 
employers associated with the pension schemes  he was a member of. And so in this regard 
alone, significant doubt is cast on the contents  of the SIPP  questionnaire.
Another problem  for Abana  is that the questionnaire  sits alone,  out of context and at odds 
with other  evidence Ive seen. If I concluded  that Mr B signed the form, I cant  be confident 
he did so in knowledge of what it contained. And even if he was aware,  Ive not seen how 
this information  sat with the basic fact find Id expect. I cant see how the information was 
critically reviewed. And Ive not seen the suitability report which  presumably ended  up 
recommending the transfer of Mr Bs pension  fund into the Avalon SIPP.
Abana hasnt  shown  Mr F followed  proper process,  or if he did that this supported  the 
subsequent transaction he advised  and arranged.  This is odd because in March 2014 when 
it was communicating  with Westerby about the business Mr F was generating, it provided 
some assurance that proper documents were on file and that its compliance  function had 
oversight of what he was doing.
I think Mr B mustve  been  interested in achieving greater returns  on his pension  funds than 
he was receiving from Capgemini. But I dont think his risk appetite wouldve been high from 
what I have managed to glean about his experience  and situation from the information I do 
have. And crucially I dont  think he understood the benefits, protections  and guarantees he 
was giving up.
Ive not seen a proper  analysis of Mr Bs capacity  for loss at the time. But we know  his 
pension provision was modest. And while taking on more risk to build  up funds mightve 
been something to consider if hed been younger  and had other resources to fall back on, Mr 
B was already  55 when Mr F gave him advice and aside from his pensions and his home, he 
didnt appear to have any other assets.
Ref: DRN828774128As we know,  Mr B was persuaded to transfer  around  £309,000 from his Capgemini OPS  into 
the Avalon SIPP  in April 2014. He took TFC of around £77,000. The bulk of what  remained 
was initially invested  in two unregulated funds through a business called ePortfolio Solutions.  
These were  called Kijani and SAMAIF and they accounted for over 95% of his pot. These  
were suspended and it appears  hes lost the vast bulk of his pension provision.
I think its telling that an independent third party, specialising  in regulatory compliance  
concluded in 2016 that Mr F, on behalf  of Abana, had been responsible for what had 
happened to Mr B. And it set out how Abana  should  put things right. As we know  it ultimately  
failed to act on the outcome of the review.
Further, Ive seen a communication  between Abana and Mr F from April 2014, which I think 
is also relevant. In this email exchange  Abana provides feedback to Mr F about  his approach 
to suitability reports. This was provided by its compliance function  and appears to show Mr 
Fs practices were  lacking,  for example in relation to advice around risk appetite.
Overall, Ive concluded Mr F wasnt acting with due skill, care or diligence  when  he effected 
Mr Bs transfer of his Capgemini pension funds into an Avalon SIPP  and unregulated funds. 
He was in breach of Principle 2 and COBS 9.2.1R, and therefore so was Abana.
I find Mr Bs testimony plausible and persuasive.  And I think its of note that Abana has never  
made the case that the transfer of his OPS  funds into the Avalon SIPP and investments in 
unregulated funds was an appropriate  or fair transaction.
Rather, Abanas response to this Service has largely  focussed on why it wasnt responsible 
for what had happened, and how it was the fault of others. Its failed to engage  effectively 
with the merits of this case, despite clear  evidence of the relationship  it had with Mr F. I wont  
rehearse the arguments already made in my decision,  but Ive concluded  that Mr F was 
acting as an agent of Abana with its actual authority to arrange SIPPs.
Ive already mentioned the letter Abana sent to a number of its clients in June 2015  which  I 
think is very telling, it begins:
IMPORTANT: Advice given to you by Abana Lda ("Abana") in relation  to your SIPP 
with Westerby Trustee Services LimitedWhy are we writing to you?
I am writing to you with reference to the advice you received by your former  advisor [Mr F] 
concerning your investments held with Asset Management International (AMI)  under your 
Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP). It has recently come  to our attention that Abana 
were not authorised to give the advice  we gave to you regarding  your Investments as we do 
not have the correct regulatory permissions
In permitting Mr F to conduct  pensions  business Abana wouldve known or at the very least 
shouldve known that such activity was outside  of its regulatory permissions which were 
restricted to insurance mediation  activities. It didnt  take reasonable care to organise and 
control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management  systems.  And 
this is a breach  of Principle 3.
Mr F gave  advice  on and made  arrangements for the transfer of Mr Bs Capgemini OPS 
funds into a SIPP, which would be dealing in unregulated investments. He transmitted  the 
necessary documentation. In doing so, he led Avalon to believe Mr B had been advised on 
the transaction and that this activity was done with Abanas authority.
Ref: DRN828774129Abana has asserted that SIPPs are actually straight-forward for customers  to understand. I 
think the number  of complaints brought to this Service  about  problems  in this area suggests 
the opposite in some circumstances.  And certainly, when considering the portfolio put in 
place for Mr B which  wasnt diversified, with interests in unregulated  funds  which werent a 
match for his risk appetite, I think its assertion is ill-considered.
Theres no credible evidence Mr B was an experienced or sophisticated investor. As Ive set 
out, he thought  the new arrangements being recommended  were low/medium risk. A small 
amount of due diligence wouldve exposed  the arrangements  being made for him as 
inappropriate.
Mr F wouldve been aware Mr B was being exposed to significant risks in the investments he 
was facilitating.  For example,  theres  no evidence Mr B had the capacity to withstand 
potential losses. Mr F wouldve known unregulated funds could be Illiquid, meaning Mr B 
might have difficulty getting access to his money. The funds were  highly specialised  and out 
of the ordinary. And they were subject  to valuation uncertainty.
So, Im satisfied that Mr F didnt act honestly, fairly and professionally, and in accordance  
with Mr Bs best interests,  in relation to designated investment business he was carrying  out. 
He breached Principle 6 and COBS 2.1.1R, and Abana is responsible  for his acts and 
omissions.
To conclude  I dont think the transfer  of Mr Bs Capgemini pensions into the Avalon SIPP  
and the unregulated investments could  sensibly be regarded  as fair to him. As such I think  
Mr F, as Abanas agent, failed to meet the regulatory requirements Ive set out when 
providing the advice and making the arrangements.  So, taking all the circumstances of the 
case into account, its fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint  against Abana, and for 
Abana to put things right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mr Bs case.  So, he needs  to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Abana responsible for.
If Abana had done everything it shouldve,  I dont think Mr B wouldve transferred  funds  from 
his OPS into the Avalon SIPP and high-risk unregulated investments, and so he wouldnt 
have suffered the financial  loss hes experienced. So, Abana  Unipessoal  Lda needs to put 
things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional  loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the transfer of his 
Capgemini pension  funds 
(a)  In relation to the defined benefit element  of his occupational pension  scheme
Abana should undertake  a redress calculation in line with the Pension Review  methodology, 
as amended by the FCA in October 2017.  A figure  should be derived up to the date of 
calculation. And this should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions 
published.
Ref: DRN828774130Abana will need to contact the Department  for Work  and Pensions to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include any SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  which  will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
(b) In relation to the defined contribution element of his occupational  pension scheme
Abana should obtain the notional value of Mr Bs previous defined  contribution  plan, as at 
the date of calculation. So, as if it hadnt  been transferred to the Avalon SIPP. It will need  to 
obtain the value of the plan as invested.  
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index (prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index) should be used as Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy  for the 
type of return that couldve  been  achieved if Mr Bs pension had remained invested in his 
previous defined contribution plan.
Abana will then have the total notional value for Mr Bs previous pensions (a+b). It should 
then find the current  value of his SIPP, including  investments and any cash held. Concerning 
the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Mr B took TFC in 2014. There  may also have been other withdrawals or contributions to 
account for. After confirming the detailed position, then the value Abana obtains or the 
calculations Abana  makes  can assume  these adjustments would still have occurred  and on 
the same  dates. These adjustments are to be applied pro-rata  to the calculated value of his 
defined benefit  and defined contribution funds at the appropriate  dates. 
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Bs 
former OPS pension funds and the current value of his SIPP  will be his basic  financial loss 
that Abana  needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial  value to buy any investments which cannot currently  be redeemed
To close Mr Bs SIPP and avoid ongoing  fees,  the investments need to be crystallised. To do 
this Abana  should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing  to accept as a 
commercial value for the investments  and Abana can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
If Abana is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes  of the loss calculation.  In this instance, where  Abana  has 
compensated Mr B fully in line with my assessment,  then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP.
Abana will need to meet  any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Bs SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for 
tax 
Ref: DRN828774131If compensation is paid into Mr Bs SIPP, payment  should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief,  so that he is in the same  position as if hed stayed in his original 
occupational pension scheme  and plan.
If paying compensation into Mr Bs SIPP would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Abana takes on his investments, then it should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
If Mr B is a basic  rate taxpayer, the notional allowance would reduce the amount payable 
(after any allowance  for tax-free cash),  equivalent  to the current basic rate of tax.
4. SIPP  fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Bs SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid,  Abana  should  pay him an amount equivalent to five years  of future fees.  This 
should allow  enough time for the issues with the investments  to be dealt with, and for them  
to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Abana wants to keep  the SIPP open, and to maintain  an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Abana fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr B should then have the option  of trying to cancel  the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
I also think Mr B has been caused upset  as a result of Abanas actions. The sudden loss of a 
substantial element of his pension fund would have come as a shock  to him and has clearly 
had a significant impact. In recognition of this it should pay him £500 for the trouble and 
upset hes experienced. 
putting things right  summary
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I consider that fair compensation  should  be calculated  as set out 
above (steps  1-5). My decision is that Abana  Unipessoal  Lda should pay Mr B the amount 
produced by those  calculations  - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations of fair compensation 
exceeds £150,000, I recommend that Abana Unipessoal Lda pays Mr B the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Abana  Unipessoal Lda 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept  my decision and go 
to court  to ask for any balance. Mr B may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  my final decision.
Ref: DRN828774132my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I require Abana 
Unipessoal Lda to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above. It should pay the 
compensation within 28 days of Mr Bs acceptance  of my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8287741