K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible  to lend her money that 
she couldnt afford to repay.
Miss M wants  Uncle Buck to refund the interest and charges that she paid.
background
Miss M took out four instalment  loans with Uncle Buck between January  and November 
2015. A summary  of her loans are as follows:
Loan no.
Date of Loan Amount of 
loanNumber of Instalments 
(including max monthly 
repayment)
1 13/01/2015 £250 3 @ £111
2 31/07/2015 £350 3 @ £171
3 01/09/2015 £300 3 @ £145
4 26/11/2015 £500 3 @ £250
Miss M says that Uncle Buck shouldnt  have agreed  to lend as she had a number of other 
short term loans at the time. Miss M says that she got further  in to debt as a result of trying  
to keep up with all of her loan repayments.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ms complaint be upheld in part. The adjudicator  
thought that Uncle Bucks  checks  went far enough before agreeing loans one to three.
The adjudicator thought  that if Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks before loan 
four, it wouldnt have agreed  to lend. The adjudicator asked Uncle Buck  to refund  the interest 
and charges that Miss M had paid on loan four. He also asked Uncle  Buck to pay interest  on 
the refund  and remove any negative entries about loan four from Miss Ms credit  file.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. It says that according to 
the submissions that Miss M made as part of her complaint,  she had monthly  outgoings of 
£1,289. Based on a monthly  income of £1,645 Miss M was left with a disposable income of 
£356  enough to say that she could afford the loan repayments.
Uncle Buck  says there was a clear  gap in borrowing between repaying loan three and taking 
out loan four. Uncle Buck also says that its own credit report  shows  that Miss Ms short term 
lending commitments  were less than weve said.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Miss M could repay any money that it lent to her in a 
sustainable way  that is without borrowing further. Any checks  had to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount of the loans, the repayments and any borrowing history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle Buck had to carry out.
Ref: DRN84243802loans one to three
Miss M hadnt borrowed from Uncle Buck before so it didnt have any lending history to 
consider. Uncle  Buck  says that it asked Miss M for details of her income  and expenses  
including regular financial  commitments. 
Uncle Buck  recorded  Miss Ms monthly  outgoings  to be £730  for loan one and £830  for loans 
two and three. Although Uncle Buck couldnt show what income figure  it recorded  each  time,  
the adjudicator  thought it was likely to have been a similar figure to the £1,580 that he could 
see on Miss Ms bank statements. 
It looked to Uncle Buck as though Miss M had more than enough disposable income to 
afford the repayments  on all three loans. Based on this information, I consider it was 
reasonable of Uncle  Buck  to agree loans one to three without asking  to see further evidence.
loan four
By the time that Miss M asked to borrow for a fourth time, I think  that Uncle  Buck shouldve 
reasonably had concerns that she might  have become reliant on short term lending.
Although Uncle Buck  asked Miss M for details of her regular credit commitments,  I dont 
have enough evidence to suggest  that it asked about her other short  term loans.
The adjudicator calculated that Miss M owed other payday lenders about £630 at the time 
that she took out loan four. The adjudicator  added  this to the expenditure figure that Uncle  
Buck held leaving Miss M with very little disposable income to say that she could  afford the 
loan repayments.
Ive had a look at the budget information that Uncle Buck gathered before agreeing  loan four. 
As this is what Uncle Buck used to decide  whether the loan was affordable,  I think  its fair to 
use the figures it recorded at the time rather than the expenditure figures  that Miss M gave 
as part of her complaint.  
Uncle Bucks budget document says that Miss M had monthly  expenses  totalling £830. This 
is £200 more than the figure that the adjudicator referred to in his opinion. To make  sure that 
weve not overestimated Miss Ms other short term lending commitments,  Ive had a look at 
what Miss M actually paid to other short term lenders in the same month that she made her 
first repayment to Uncle Buck.
I can see that Miss M repaid at least two different  payday lenders more than £580  in late 
December 2015.  When added to Miss Ms declared  expenditure of £830, she had monthly 
outgoings of around £1,410. 
If Uncle Buck had carried out the kinds of checks that I think were proportionate, it wouldve 
discovered that Miss M didnt have enough disposable income to be able to afford  loan four. 
As a responsible lender,  I dont think Uncle Buck wouldve agreed loan four.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loan four;
Ref: DRN84243803Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loan four from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and direct Uncle  Buck Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8424380