K822xcomplaint
Mrs F is unhappy  with Union Reiseversicherung AGs (URV)  decision  not to pay her medical 
claim in full after being taken ill on holiday. Any reference to URV  includes its agents.
Mrs F is represented  by her daughter.
background 
Mrs F went on holiday with her daughter  in 2018.  
Unfortunately, Mrs F became unwell and needed  hospital treatment. Mrs F was spending  
part of her holiday on an island and was initially admitted to a small local hospital.  She was 
given antibiotics  and fluids to treat suspected gastroenteritis  and dehydration. 
Mrs F was discharged from the first hospital but continued to feel unwell and following a visit 
to a local clinic, her daughter arranged for her to be transferred by air ambulance  to a 
hospital on the mainland. Mrs Fs daughter  said the first hospital didnt have the facilities to 
treat her mother and the level of care she received  wasnt of the right standard;  she said her 
mothers condition had been misdiagnosed.
Following her transfer to the mainland  hospital,  Mrs Fs daughter said that hospital also 
didnt have the correct facilities to treat her mother and had also misdiagnosed her condition. 
Her daughter arranged  for an air ambulance to return her to the UK for further treatment.
URV have  accepted part of the claim including charges for the hospital stays and the air 
ambulance costs for transferring  Mrs F to the mainland hospital. But it has refused to cover 
the costs of the second air ambulance  to bring  Mrs F back to the UK. URV said it wasnt  
medically necessary  to repatriate Mrs F and that Mrs Fs daughter arranged  the air 
ambulance without consultation.
Mrs F would like the costs refunded by URV. Her daughter said URV wasnt maintaining  
open lines of communication  and she felt abandoned, leaving her with little choice but to 
arrange the repatriation herself.
Our investigator considered the complaint  but agreed with URV. He was satisfied the air 
ambulance transfer  had been arranged without agreement from URV and the evidence hed 
seen didnt show it was medically necessary to repatriate Mrs F.
Because Mrs F disagreed, the case has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  industry standards   
in this case the FCA Insurance Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) - which  sets out 
the standards an insurer needs to meet when handling claims.
This was clearly a very difficult and upsetting situation for Mrs F and her daughter  - being 
unwell and far from home, must  have  been a frightening experience.
Ref: DRN88701112A significant amount of medical  information has been provided including information  from the 
professionals treating  Mrs F during her holiday and on her transfer back to the UK. But Im 
not a doctor.  My role is not to decide  whether the correct clinical  diagnosis was reached or 
whether the treatment Mrs F received was of the appropriate standard.  My role is to consider  
whether URV has acted  reasonably based  on the information available to me.
And based on everything Ive seen, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same  
reasons. I know Mrs F will be disappointed,  so Ill explain why Ive reached that decision.
Policy terms
The starting point  is always  the terms and conditions  of the insurance policy Mrs F held with 
URV. The policy terms constitute the contract between URV  and Mrs F.  In this case,  the 
crux of this complaint relates  to the air ambulance transfer back to the UK, so Ive 
considered the policy  terms relating to medical emergencies and repatriation.  The policy 
terms say:
Section B2  Emergency medical and other expenses
7.  With the prior authorisation of Emergency Assistance Facilities, the additional 
costs incurred in the use of air transport or other suitable means, including  qualified 
attendants, to repatriate you to your home  if it is medically necessary. These 
expenses will be for the identical class of travel  utilised  on the outward journey 
unless Emergency Assistance Facilities agree otherwise.
What this means is URV will cover the costs of repatriation  if its been agreed by URV  in 
advance and if it considers the transfer medically  necessary.  
In this case, Im satisfied  URV did not pre-approve the air ambulance transfer  between  the 
hospitals or back to the UK. It has retrospectively agreed to cover the costs of the first air 
ambulance transfer  as its satisfied that transfer was medically necessary due to the lack of 
facilities available locally.
Ive gone on to consider the circumstances  around  the repatriation,  based on the evidence  
provided by both parties. Ive listened to several telephone calls between  Mrs Fs daughter 
and URV,  reviewed URVs system records and considered the additional information 
provided by Mrs Fs daughter about the air ambulance  arrangements  she made.  Ive also 
taken account  of the time difference between Mrs Fs holiday location and the UK.
Based on this information, Im satisfied Mrs Fs daughter had started planning  to repatriate 
Mrs F back to the UK without URVs agreement, prior to Mrs Fs transfer  to the second  
hospital. I say this because:
In the first call to URV  recorded on 11 July 2018,  not long after Mrs F had been 
admitted to the first hospital, Mrs Fs daughter  asks about  trying to fly her mother  
home. She asks URVs call handler about  flying people home to the UK with oxygen 
and goes on to mention air ambulances and special  flights. She also refers  to 
chartering a flight  home or to the USA and wants to speed things up. URVs call 
handler asks Mrs Fs daughter to send a medical report so the case could be 
assessed but doesnt make any commitment about covering  the claim.
Ref: DRN88701113Ive seen email and text exchanges  between Mrs Fs daughter and air ambulance 
providers which refer to repatriation to the UK. Im satisfied,  based on the content 
and dates of these exchanges that Mrs Fs daughter was considering returning her 
mother to the UK at an early  point in her illness.
Ive also seen an email from the British  Consulate referring to a conversation  with 
Mrs Fs daughter about repatriating Mrs F back to the UK, including  reference  to 
transferring Mrs Fs mother to a mainland hospital before  the return  flight  to the UK. 
This email is dated 12 July 218.
On the same date,  sufficient funds to cover the cost of the air ambulance transfer  
back to the UK are transferred to Mrs Fs daughters  UK bank account.
And when URV called Mrs Fs daughter on 12 July 2018, Mrs Fs daughter  says 
shes arranged an air ambulance to transfer  her mother to the second  hospital. She 
asks if the cost, at least in part, will be covered by the insurance. URVs call handler 
again asks about  a medical report about Mrs Fs condition  before cover can be 
confirmed  which Mrs Fs daughter  says she will email to URV.
The day after Mrs F is admitted to the second  hospital, further  information  shows  that 
Mrs Fs daughter was planning a further  air ambulance transfer.
Ive seen a letter from a hospital in the USA referring to an enquiry to treat Mrs F, as an 
alternative to returning her to the UK.  This enquiry was made on 13 July 2018.
And in a call to URV, logged on 13 July 2018, Mrs Fs daughter  confirms  shes  paid the first 
air ambulance transfer and the second  air ambulance back to the UK. Based on information 
Ive seen, Im also satisfied making arrangements  for an air ambulance  transfer generally 
requires some period  of notice.
At this point, URV had just received a medical report from Mrs Fs daughter but hadnt  
reviewed it. Its recorded as being received  on 13 July 2018. In the next call to URV, 
approximately 24 hours later,  Mrs F told URVs call handler that within the next hour, her 
mother would be starting her journey back to the UK.
I can understand why Mrs Fs daughter wanted to bring her mother back  to the UK as soon 
as possible but Im satisfied her intention was to do so even without waiting for URVs 
authorisation. Because of that, URVs position  was prejudiced. It didnt have  the opportunity 
to make a decision about the eligibility of the claim, to consider  arrangements  for Mrs Fs 
care, or to decide to bring her home using a preferred air ambulance provider. And having 
reviewed the medical report it received, URVs medical team  have said it wouldnt have  
agreed to repatriate  Mrs F.
Was the repatriation medically necessary?
Whilst Im satisfied  the repatriation arrangements were made  outside  of the policy  terms, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable for URV to refund  the cost of 
the air ambulance flight to the UK.
Mrs Fs daughter has said the two hospitals  overseas misdiagnosed her mothers  condition  
and because of that it was medically  necessary to bring Mrs F back  to the UK for on-going 
Ref: DRN88701114care. On her return to the UK Mrs F was admitted to hospital  where  she was treated for a 
short period  before being discharged. 
Ive carefully considered  the information  about Mrs Fs health  given by the overseas 
hospitals and clinicians  taking care of her, including the air ambulance medical team.
In order to protect Mrs Fs personal  information, I wont go into specific  details about the 
information Ive been provided with  that information is already known to the parties. Im 
satisfied the information recorded about  the problems Mrs F was experiencing are very 
similar, but not identical. And medication  provided on the air ambulance to treat one aspect 
of her illness was the same as the treatment  provided in the second hospital   and the same 
treatment that was provided on her return to the UK. As Ive said,  Im not a doctor so Ive 
relied on the information provided by the medical  specialists treating Mrs F.
Ive also gone  on to consider whether Mrs Fs condition warranted emergency  repatriation to 
the UK. And based on the information  provided,  I cannot be satisfied there was an urgent 
need to return  her to the UK at that time. 
She was being  treated in the intensive care unit of the second hospital, the report  
confirms she was awake and in a stable  condition, being given oxygen  via a nasal 
tube. And in her call to URV, just before Mrs F was returned to the UK, Mrs Fs 
daughter said her mother was getting  better now.  
Ive been provided  with a copy of the air ambulance medical necessity form the title 
of which  includes reference to non-emergency medical transportation. 
The air ambulance  transfer form refers to Mrs F as alert, calm and co-operative. 
And during  the flight Mrs F is reported  as stable,  being given oxygen, with an IV in 
place and being monitored  by the in-flight doctor. 
Ive also considered the report  provided by the director  of the air ambulance 
company who confirms Mrs F wasnt well enough to return home  by passenger  plane  
at that time as she needed monitoring, oxygen  and intravenous  medication. But this 
report doesnt suggest Mrs Fs condition was so serious or unstable at that time that 
immediate repatriation  to the UK was needed.
The level of service and support provided  by URV
Mrs Fs daughter has complained about  the level of support she received when her mother 
was taken ill.  Shes said she was left to make decisions  on her own and felt abandoned. Im 
very sorry to hear that. URV has acknowledged this was a very busy time of the year  due 
to it being peak holiday season  and that call times and email responses  were taking longer 
than expected. It offered Mrs F compensation for that and for failing to log her subsequent 
complaint about  the service shed received correctly.
In order to assess Mrs Fs claim,  URV needed  a medical report   and from the information 
Ive seen, that report was received on the day before Mrs F was repatriated to the UK. Its 
not unreasonable for URV  to ask for information to validate a claim. And although  URV  didnt 
consider the medical report within 24 hours,  I dont  think that delay impacted this complaint. 
Mrs Fs daughter had already arranged and paid for an air ambulance transfer  back  to the 
UK so even  if URV had considered the medical  report more quickly,  I dont think  it would 
have made  a difference to the decision Mrs Fs daughter had made.  
Ref: DRN88701115I can see that most of the contact between Mrs Fs daughter and URV was instigated by her 
and on one occasion when URV tried to contact  Mrs Fs daughter,  the call notes show the 
call wouldnt  go through. And on another occasion, when URV called, Mrs Fs daughter has 
said the phone reception kept breaking down due to the location she was in. But Im 
satisfied, URV couldnt progress the claim without the medical  information  it needed.  Mrs Fs 
daughter had agreed to send the information but in a call to URV, she was clearly struggling  
to get the medical report through because of problems with her email. On one occasion  
URVs call handler  tried to help Mrs Fs daughter to attach a photograph of the report to an 
email to send as she was struggling to use the functionality on her mobile phone and was 
very distressed.
Fundamentally the situation was moving quickly. Within the space  of a few days, Mrs F had 
been admitted  to two hospitals,  having  been transferred by air ambulance and was on her 
way home  to the UK. Mrs Fs daughter had kept in touch with URV but the medical report it 
needed wasnt received until the day before Mrs F was repatriated. Decisions had been  
made about Mrs Fs care and repatriation without URVs involvement or agreement. And 
having retrospectively considered the information about Mrs Fs health and care, I dont  think  
its unreasonable for URV to have reached  the decision it has.
Although URV hasnt  agreed to refund the cost of the second air ambulance transfer,  it has, 
in its final response to Mrs Fs complaint, offered to pay the costs it would have incurred - of 
Mrs F and her daughter  remaining overseas until Mrs F was well enough to return  to the UK 
by commercial flight with a nurse escort and transport from a UK airport  to her home.  Im 
satisfied, based  on everything Ive seen that is a reasonable position for URV to take.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Union 
Reiseversicherung AG should pay Mrs F the compensation offered for poor complaint 
handling and the costs  it would have incurred had Mrs F not been repatriated;  a total of 
£14,517.14.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Sian Brightey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8870111