K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns unhappy that Nationwide  Building Society  hasnt paid him a refer a friend  incentive  
when a relative opened an account  with it.
background
Mr N says he wasnt given the terms and conditions of the offer by Nationwide and therefore  
wasnt aware of what was required. He wants to be paid the incentive. 
Nationwide said in its final response that it couldnt make the £100 recommend a friend 
payment as the terms and conditions of the incentive hadnt been met. They  say both 
members must complete the relevant form to enable  payment to be made. Its confident  the 
terms and conditions of this incentive  wouldve been  explained  to Mr N by its staff and they 
were also available  on its website.
Our adjudicator felt that this complaint  shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The terms and conditions of the refer a friend  scheme are available online. They say 
certain criteria  must be followed to be eligible for the incentive,  including that a 
unique switcher reference must be put on the recommendation form. 
Hes satisfied this switch reference was given to Mr N. But the terms and conditions  
werent followed as the recommendation form wasnt completed.
Its unfortunate if there was confusion around  the terms and conditions  of the refer a 
friend scheme but Nationwide  has treated Mr N fairly.
Mr N doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says there was so much 
information given  to him that he didnt pick up the need for him to complete  an online form. 
He was hardly likely to access the online  terms and conditions.  Nationwide  had two 
opportunities to hand him its recommend a friend  booklet containing the terms and 
conditions. But he was given other  information.  He hasnt been treated fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  for the same reasons.
As Mr N accepts,  we dont know exactly what he was told by Nationwides staff although it 
says its confident the terms  and conditions of this incentive wouldve been explained to him. 
Its also unfortunate if he didnt get given a booklet with the terms and conditions  in. But as 
the potential beneficiary of the incentive payment  I think it was his responsibility to ensure he 
was aware of the relevant  terms and conditions that applied and that he complied with them. 
And as Nationwide says the terms and conditions were also readily  available  on its website.
I recognise Mr Ns frustration at not receiving  the incentive payment. But the simple fact here 
is that he didnt  comply with the terms and conditions of Nationwides  refer a friend offer and 
therefore didnt  qualify for the incentive.
Ref: DRN84452402Overall, I dont  think Nationwide has treated Mr N unfairly. And taking everything into 
account I dont  think I can reasonably require Nationwide to pay Mr N the £100  incentive as 
hed like.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8445240