K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained about a personal loan Everyday  Lending  Limited, trading as Everyday  
Loans, provided to him. He says Everyday  Loans shouldnt have given him the loan as it was 
unaffordable.
background
Mr K took out a loan for £1,500 with Everyday Loans in June 2016, to be repaid over 24 
months. The total amount to be repaid was £3,807.60, with monthly payments of £158.65.
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Ks complaint and thought Everyday Loans had acted 
irresponsibly in lending  to him. Everyday Loans  disagreed with our investigator,  and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and guidance say that businesses must act responsibly when lending to 
consumers. Businesses must  consider the potential for the lending  to adversely impact  the 
consumers financial situation and the consumers ability to make the repayments as they fall 
due over the life of the agreement.
Businesses must assess whether the consumer could  afford  to meet  the repayments in a 
sustainable manner,  without incurring financial difficulties or significant adverse 
consequences. This means the consumer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments.
And that affordability  assessment  must  be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
lending. So, for example,  the checks will generally  have to be more  thorough  the higher the 
amount to be repaid, the lower the consumers income or the longer the term of the loan.
As part of its affordability assessment, Everyday Loans carried  out a credit search to check 
Mr Ks credit  history and outstanding debt. It also asked Mr K for copies of his recent bank 
statements and did an income  and expenditure calculation to work  out if he could afford  the 
monthly repayments. And Ive seen copies of all of these.
The bank statements confirmed Mr Ks income was around £1,400  per month. The income  
and expenditure  calculation  showed  Mr Ks rent as £250 per month, his living  expenses  as 
around £800 per month and that he was making  payments of around £180  per month 
towards other debts.  This then showed  he had a monthly disposable income of just over 
£200, or just under  £50 once the repayments  for this loan were taken into account.
But the results of the credit search  and Mr Ks statements  show his monthly repayments for 
other debts  were much higher than £180  per month.  The statements showed Mr K making 
repayments averaging more  than £400  each month and the credit search listed repayments 
of over £1,000  towards outstanding balances of over £2,500. So its not clear  where  
Everyday Loans  got the figures  in its income  and expenditure  calculation  from.
Ref: DRN88461752As Everyday  Loans had the results of the credit  search and copies of Mr Ks statements, I 
dont think it was reasonable for it to rely solely on an income and expenditure calculation 
that the search and statements showed  to be inaccurate. I also note Everyday Loans 
records show this loan was to be used to consolidate Mr Ks payday  loans. But its not clear 
which loans were to be consolidated and Everyday Loans income and expenditure 
calculation doesnt  show any current payments  to be consolidated. So I dont think  Everyday 
Loans carried out proportionate  checks to assess whether Mr K could afford to meet  the 
repayments for this loan in a sustainable manner, and I think it should have looked further 
into his financial situation and how this loan would affect it before  lending to him.
I cant say for sure what  more proportionate  checks wouldve shown. But Ive seen copies of 
Mr Ks bank  statements  for the three  months before this loan and a copy  of his credit file. 
And, in the absence  of evidence to the contrary, I think its likely these give a good  indication 
of Mr Ks financial  circumstances at the time.
Mr Ks credit  file showed he was in arrears on several accounts and had defaulted  on 
another account in the six months  before this loan. The bank statements show  Mr K was 
going into his overdraft more frequently and by larger amounts over the months  before  this 
loan. They also show Mr K had a number of short-term loans, including  two for a total of 
£400 taken out in the month before  this loan. And they show  a significant  number of cash 
withdrawals and gambling transactions. These can all suggest a consumer is struggling  to 
manage their finances.
I think these statements and credit  file show Mr K was having difficulty  managing  his 
finances and may have  had a problem with gambling and been reliant on other lending  to 
meet his existing outgoings. So I think they show it was unlikely Mr K could afford to meet  
the repayments for this loan in a sustainable way and that it wouldnt be responsible  to lend 
to him.
I think more proportionate checks wouldve shown similar information  to that on the 
statements and credit file. And so I think more proportionate checks would also have shown  
it was unlikely Mr K could afford to meet the repayments for this loan in a sustainable way 
and that it wouldnt  be responsible to lend to him.
So I think Everyday Loans acted irresponsibly in providing Mr K with this loan.
As Mr K ended up paying interest and charges on a loan he shouldnt  have  been  given, I 
think he has lost out as a result  of what Everyday Loans did wrong.
Ref: DRN88461753putting things right
Everyday Loans  shouldnt have given Mr K the loan. I understand there  may be an 
outstanding balance on the loan.  Everyday Loans should therefore:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the outstanding balance  on the loan, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr K as thought they had been repayments of the 
principal.
If this results  in Mr K having made  overpayments,  Everyday Loans  should refund 
these overpayments  plus 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have been made, to the date the complaint is 
settled.
If there is an outstanding balance  then Everyday Loans should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr K.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ks credit  file in relation to this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Loans to deduct tax from this interest.  Everyday  Loans must give 
Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint. Everyday Lending Limited, trading 
as Everyday Loans, should put things right by doing  what Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8846175