K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Amtrust Europe Limited  did after he told it the panel  solicitors 
acting for him were no longer representing him. 
background
Mr S has a legal expenses insurance policy  with Amtrust. In 2014 he was involved in a road 
traffic accident and used  his policy to make a personal injury  claim. Amtrust agreed to 
provide cover and appointed a firm of panel solicitors to progress the claim.  Mr S had 
concerns about  the actions of the solicitors which hes pursued  with the Legal Ombudsman. 
In November 2017 Mr S got in touch with Amtrust  as the panel solicitors  had said they would 
no longer represent  him. He said Amtrust should  appoint an alternative  firm. Amtrust looked  
into the reasons  why the panel  solicitors had said they wouldnt act for Mr S. It said this was 
because the solicitors had asked Mr S to agree to expert medical  evidence  or obtain 
alternative evidence  which  supported  his position.  As he hadnt provided  instructions in 
relation to this the panel solicitors had applied to the court  to come  off record and this had 
been approved.
Amtrust accepted Mr S had difficult personal circumstances and was also dealing with 
issues relating to the serious ill health  of his son. But it concluded the case  wasnt able to 
progress because Mr S wouldnt accept the advice  of his solicitors.  And it was a condition  of 
his policy  that he co-operate with the solicitors appointed to represent him. It thought he was 
in breach of this condition and said it wouldnt be providing any further assistance with the 
claim. 
Our investigator thought Amtrust should  have agreed to appoint another  solicitor to look into 
the matter prior to withdrawing cover  for the claim (particularly taking into account Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time). And, although  by then the claim had been  struck out by the 
court, it appeared possible it could be reinstated. 
Amtrust got a legal opinion on whether the case was likely to win if this was done (which  was 
a requirement for cover to be provided under  the policy). This found the case  wouldnt have 
reasonable prospects of success without Mr Ss agreement to the medical evidence. And he 
hadnt provided that. 
Mr S didnt agree. Amtrust also disagreed with our investigators recommendation that it 
should pay Mr S £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience its original decision to 
withdraw cover had caused. 
Another ombudsman  reached a provisional  decision on the complaint last year. She agreed 
Amtrust should have  allowed Mr S to appoint another  solicitor  rather  than simply withdrawing 
cover for his claim. But it had now obtained a further opinion from a different panel firm. And 
that said the claim didnt  have reasonable prospects  of success  because of Mr Ss 
disagreement with the medical  evidence. 
As a result she didnt  think that even if another firm had been  instructed earlier  it would have 
made a difference to the outcome of Mr Ss claim. And while  she accepted  not appointing 
another solicitor  would have caused Mr S some distress and inconvenience  she didnt think  
that justified an award  of compensation. 
Ref: DRN80977272Mr S didnt agree. He stressed the reason he didnt attend court when his claim was struck  
out was because he was dealing with issues relating  to his son. He thought  it would have 
made a difference if alternative  solicitors had been appointed earlier.  And he said hed never  
been given the opportunity to challenge  the medical evidence  in the case  either with the 
initial panel  solicitors  or with the new firm. 
I issued a further provisional decision  on the complaint in January. I said:
I recognise this has been an exceptionally  difficult time for Mr S. Hes provided  us with 
information about the issues that affect his son and the impact of these. Its clear  that dealing  
with these issues has been incredibly hard for him. And I know his son had particularly 
serious problems and was hospitalised  around the time cover was withdrawn  for the claim.  
Its completely understandable that Mr S would have been  focused on these matters  and 
wasnt able to deal with issues relating to this claim. 
I also agree  Amtrust got something  wrong  here. There  was clearly a difficult relationship 
between Mr S and the previous panel solicitors and it does appear  that relations between  
them had broken down. But taking into account  Mr Ss circumstances at that time I think  it 
would have been reasonable for another firm to be instructed at that point (as Mr S 
requested) rather than withdrawing cover on the basis of non-cooperation.  
However, where we identify a business  has got something wrong the next step is to think 
about whether  the position  would have been  any different but for that failing. In this case 
Mr Ss policy  requires  that for a claim to be funded it must enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success (which  it defines as a 51% or better  chance  of making a successful recovery  from 
the third party). So, as a starting point, any alternative firm would need to have assessed 
whether that remained the case here.  
And a prospects assessment  has now been  carried out by an alternative panel firm. They  
concluded the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects  of success because  Mr S hadnt  
agreed to the expert medical  evidence. I understand Mr S believes the alternative firm had a 
conflict of interest because theyd acted for a company  hed previously had a dispute  with. 
But this is a large firm with close to 1000 legal advisors. And Ive not seen  anything  to 
suggest the lawyer  who advised on the prospects assessment had any direct involvement 
with the previous case that Mr S was involved with. So I dont  think  it was unreasonable  of 
Amtrust to ask her to carry out the prospects assessment. 
Ive looked at that assessment which I can see is from a lawyer with significant  experience  in 
relation to personal injury claims. And in reaching  her view on prospects the lawyer  took into 
account the medical evidence that had already  been provided along  with Mr Ss position on 
this. It doesnt appear she felt any further medical  evidence was required  and she concluded 
the case didnt  have reasonable prospects of success. I think  the opinion  is properly written 
and reasoned and I dont  think its unreasonable of Amtrust to rely on it. 
I know Mr S strongly believes there  is additional  evidence which supports  his position and 
which he says he hasnt  had the opportunity to present  to the medical  experts in this case.  
Mr S provided us with emails in support of his position and referenced  a medical report 
which he says supports his case.  
Ref: DRN80977273I can see Amtrust  agreed to pass these  emails on to the panel solicitor  along with a copy of 
the medical report. But Mr S then said he didnt want that to happen as he thought  the 
information should be passed  directly  to the medical  experts for their consideration. He also 
said he didnt have  the medical  report which he thought  had been  archived but suggested a 
legal professional could obtain  this. 
However, I dont think its unreasonable for panel solicitors to initially consider whether any 
new evidence is likely  to make a difference to their assessment  and to then seek  advice from 
the medical experts if necessary.  Amtrust  offered to provide any further information Mr S 
provided to the solicitors  which  I think was fair. Mr S has suggested  it should  also obtain the 
medical report hes referenced but from what hes said its not clear  that report still exists. In 
any case I think its for Mr S to provide this evidence  if he thinks  it will support his claim. 
And Mr S hasnt changed his position in relation  to the medical evidence  as it stands. Hes 
been consistent in saying  that he doesnt  agree with this. So I think  its likely that even if an 
alternative firm had been appointed in November 2017 its assessment of the claims 
prospects of success would have  been the same as that which has now been reached.  And 
cover would therefore have been  withdrawn for the claim  at that time.  As a result  while  I do 
think Amtrust  got something  wrong  here I dont think cover  would have been provided for the 
claim if that hadnt happened. 
But I do think that the decision to withdraw cover without appointing  an alternative panel  firm 
will have caused Mr S some avoidable distress  and inconvenience. Amtrust  didnt  withdraw 
cover for the correct reason. And appointing an alternative panel  firm at that time might  have 
provided him with reassurance that matters were  being handled correctly (even if the 
outcome was that cover would no longer be provided for his claim). Taking into account the 
significant additional stress  he was under as a result of his sons  hospitalisation  I think it 
would be reasonable for Amtrust  to pay him £350 in recognition of this, as initially 
recommended by our investigator. 
Mr S has also raised concerns about a costs order thats been made against him after his 
claim was struck out. I note his policy does provide cover for his insured liability  which 
includes third party costs.  And it appears his claim met the terms and conditions  of his policy 
until cover  was withdrawn in November 2017.  So I queried with Amtrust whether it would 
provide cover for third party costs incurred  up until that date. 
It said it wouldnt normally do so if there had been a breach of the policy terms by the 
policyholder. And it was also unclear  whether the order that had been  made  against Mr S 
was enforceable  in any case. However,  in the circumstances it felt it would be appropriate to 
review all of the relevant  information prior to reaching a final decision on this. It said it had 
asked Mr S for details  of the costs  order and other  relevant  documentation  but he hadnt 
been able to provide this to date.
If thats the case it doesnt appear  Amtrust is at present in a position to reach a view on 
whether these costs  are ones that Mr S will have to pay and what,  if any, contribution it 
should make  towards them. If Mr S is now able to provide  information  about the costs order  
and other  relevant documentation Amtrust should  review the position on this and let him 
know the outcome.  In doing so it should  take into account the other findings Ive reached in 
relation to his complaint. And if Mr S is unhappy with what  Amtrust decides  that could form 
part of a fresh complaint. 
Ref: DRN80977274responses to my provisional  decision
Mr S responded to my provisional decision.  He said, in summary:
The injuries hed sustained in the road traffic accident had exacerbated a previous injury 
(which he had medical evidence of). His previous panel solicitors  had ignored what he 
said about this and instead  applied  to come off record.  He thought  the solicitors should  
have acquired  this medical evidence and presented it to the medical experts. 
His case does have  reasonable  prospects of success as the defendant has admitted full 
liability. He argued it was his right under  UK law to be able to present the evidence he 
wanted to the medical experts involved with the case. And he said Amtrust  should have 
allowed him to instruct  new panel solicitors and then do that. 
If hed been  able to do so he would  then have accepted the opinion of the medical 
experts (if this was fact based), given permission for the medical reports to be disclosed  
to the defendant and the claim would  have been settled at that point.
He outlined the serious health  issues affecting  his son between  March and June 2018 
and the many professionals whod been  involved  with his care.  He said this made it 
impossible for him to provide further  evidence in relation to his case  at this time. Mr S 
said Amtrust  should have notified the court of his personal circumstances and asked it to 
extend the timescale for disclosure of medical information. 
Mr S also made reference  to discussions hed had with the investigator who looked  into 
the complaint.  He said if Amtrust had kept to the agreement that had been reached at 
that time hed have  been able to present  medical evidence to counsel and the case  
would have been reinstated by the courts.
Mr S said he wanted Amtrust  to reinstate his claim and allow  him to challenge the 
medical expert reports with the evidence he had. He said not doing  so would be a denial 
of his right to have  his claim  heard. He said a manager here had agreed this should  be 
done. And as hed now obtained  and provided  the medical  report on his previous  injuries  
he queried what action wed be taking in relation to it.
Amtrust also responded. It didnt agree compensation  should be paid. In summary it said:
It didnt have an alternative panel firm who could have taken on the case  and the 
previous firm had done all it could to progress  matters.  It said Mr S hadnt co-operated 
with his previous  solicitors and was in breach of the terms of his policy. 
It didnt accept it would be appropriate for it to appoint new solicitors  every time a 
consumer disagreed with the opinion of a solicitor and didnt agree it had withdrawn 
cover for the wrong reason. It said a judge had concluded the actions  of the panel 
solicitor were reasonable.
It didnt agree that appointing another panel  firm would have provided Mr S with 
reassurance his claim was being  dealt with correctly as when an alternative opinion was 
provided he wasnt happy with this.
Ref: DRN80977275my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked first at what Amtrust has said in response to my provisional  decision. Firstly  Ive 
not suggested an alternative  panel  firm should  be appointed every time a consumer 
disagrees with a legal opinion. What  Ive done  is to explain  what  I think should have 
happened in this case.
And while I appreciate  a judge did agree the previous panel solicitors  were  entitled to come  
off record I dont think that in itself demonstrates  Mr S was in breach of the policy terms. 
Taking into account his circumstances at the time I think  it would  have been  fair to try and 
instruct another firm rather than withdrawing  cover  on the basis of non-cooperation.  
Amtrust doesnt believe an alternative firm would have  taken the case  on. But even if thats 
right (and I note it was subsequently able to obtain further legal advice  from another  firm) it 
didnt try and do so. And I dont think the fact that when it did get further legal advice some 
months later Mr S wasnt reassured by it means  the position would have  been  the same  if it 
had acted as it should in November 2017. So I continue to feel it should make a payment to 
Mr S of £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience he was caused by this. 
Turning to the comments Mr S has made I appreciate he believes the injuries he suffered 
exacerbated a previous injury. And, as Ive already  acknowledged, I know this has been an 
exceptionally difficult time for him  hes been trying to deal with all of these matters  while  
also coping with the extremely serious health  issues affecting his son. But his concerns 
about the actions of his previous solicitor arent  ones  we can consider; I understand Mr S 
has already made a complaint to the Legal Ombudsman about  these matters. 
And while Mr S says his case  does  have reasonable prospects of success Amtrust has a 
legal opinion  which says it doesnt.  I recognise  Mr S disagrees with that opinion but neither 
we or the insurer are legal  experts and as a result  we think its reasonable for an insurer  to 
rely on a properly written  and reasoned  legal  opinion from a qualified  lawyer. I think the 
opinion in this case meets those criteria  and I think its reasonable for Amtrust to rely on it. 
Amtrust should have  obtained that opinion earlier but I dont  think  cover would have been 
provided for Mr Ss claim if it had done  so. Ive not seen anything to suggest  that an 
assessment of the claims prospects in November 2017 would have been any different to the 
one thats now been reached; Mr S hasnt changed  his position on the medical evidence or 
provided a contrary legal view. So, in my view, cover would still have been withdrawn for the 
claim at that time. 
Mr S wants  to be able to present the medical evidence he has to the medical  professionals 
involved himself. He says hed then accept the view of those professionals if it was fact 
based.  But the policy  doesnt say Mr S has the right to provide evidence  to the medical 
experts direct and I dont  think  it was unreasonable of Amtrust to say it would pass medical 
evidence to the panel solicitors for them to consider  in the first instance. If the solicitors  felt 
further medical advice  was required  they could then have obtained it. 
Ref: DRN80977276Mr S has drawn attention  to the very difficult situation he was in between March  and June 
2018 and the problems  this caused  him in providing further information in relation to this 
case. As Ive said I am aware  of the serious  problems affecting  his son during this period 
and I can understand  why his priorities were elsewhere. I appreciate why Mr S wasnt able to 
provide further  information in support of his claim at this time. 
Mr S feels  Amtrust should have  got in touch  with the court  during this time to tell it about his 
personal circumstances and asked it to extend  the time for disclosure  of medical information. 
But Amtrust was no longer providing cover for his legal expenses claim at that point. And as 
Ive already explained while I do feel that it withdrew cover  for the wrong reason, even if 
matters had progressed  as they should I dont think it would have continued to provide cover  
for his claim. As a result, and while  I do understand  the very difficult  situation Mr S was in, I 
dont think it would have  been reasonable to expect  Amtrust to take action on his behalf 
during this time. 
I know Mr S feels Amtrust should  now reinstate his claim but I dont agree. I note Mr Ss 
recollection of what a colleague  said about this. But I need to reach  my own decision on the 
complaint hes made against Amtrust. And in order for cover to be provided under his legal 
expenses insurance  policy  the claim needs to have reasonable  prospects of success. 
Amtrust has a legal opinion which says it doesnt.  I know Mr S feels  Amtrust  breached  an 
agreement to get an opinion from a barrister  but his concerns about  our action in relation to 
that have been considered separately  through our service complaints process. And as Ive 
already explained I think  Amtrust is entitled to rely on the opinion it does have. 
And based on that opinion  his claim isnt one that his policy covers.  Because of that I dont 
think Amtrust  acted unfairly  in deciding not to fund it. I dont agree this is a denial of Mr Ss 
right to have his claim heard; it doesnt  prevent  him taking his own legal action. The issue is 
whether Amtrust should provide cover for that claim under his legal expenses  insurance 
policy. For the reasons  Ive explained  I dont think it needs to do that. 
Mr S has now been able to provide us with a copy of the report on his previous injuries.  But 
he hasnt said we can provide this document  to Amtrust so we havent done  so to date. If he 
does want us to do that he should let the investigator  dealing  with the case know. Id then 
expect Amtrust to ask the panel solicitors  whether this makes a difference to their previous  
judgement on the prospects of success of his claim (seeking guidance  from medical experts 
as appropriate). 
Mr S has also said a claim  for out of pocket expenses arising from the accident could be 
pursued without the need for medical evidence on the extent of his injuries. But that doesnt  
appear to be something he asked  Amtrust  to consider as part of this complaint. So if he 
wants to pursue this issue hell need  to raise this with Amtrust in the first instance to see 
what its position on that is. 
Finally I appreciate Mr S wanted me to issue a further provisional decision on his complaint 
and also requested an oral hearing. Ive explained to him separately why I dont feel a 
hearing is required and for the same reasons Ive already explained my position on that 
hasnt changed.  And while Ive considered whether to issue a further provisional decision the 
responses from Mr S and Amtrust havent,  for example, caused me to change  the outcome 
of the complaint or provide materially different reasoning. Taking  into account the 
requirement in our rules  to resolve  cases quickly and with the minimum of formality Im 
satisfied this is a complaint I can fairly  determine  without  the need  for a further provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN80977277my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Amtrust Europe Limited will need to put things 
right by paying Mr S £350. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8097727