K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss S are unhappy that Santander UK Plc did not immediately  process a 
transaction Mr M attempted to make using online banking, and blocked  their account, while it 
verified that the transaction  was genuine. Theyre also unhappy with how long it took, and 
the number of phone calls Mr M had to make,  for this to be resolved.
background
Mr M tried to make  a payment of £20,000 from the joint account  he holds with Miss S on 
31 August 2018.  The payment was to be converted into Euros.
Santanders fraud prevention systems  flagged  the transaction as one that needed further  
verification. Santander  says it didnt have a contact  number for Mr M and Miss S so didnt 
call them immediately.
Mr M called Santander a few minutes  after the transaction to discuss  why it had been  
stopped. And he made several  further calls on 1 September  2018.
Santander completed its review on the morning of 1 September  2018. The block on the 
account was lifted and the payment released at 10:58am.
Mr M and Miss S complained to Santander but it did not think it had done  anything wrong. 
They then brought their complaint to our service and said that the transaction should not 
have been stopped as theyd made  several  payments from their account to the same  
recipient in the previous  few weeks. As a result of Santanders actions they said theyd 
incurred a loss as the exchange rate had moved  between when Mr M originally attempted  to 
make the payment and when it went through. Mr M also says this caused him 
embarrassment as the payment didnt reach the intended recipient on time. Mr M was also 
unhappy with the information provided  by Santander  about how long it would take to resolve 
the issues and that when  the block was lifted, the bank didnt contact him to confirm this.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  Santander was 
entitled to carry  out checks on the transaction and that it had dealt with the matter within a 
reasonable timeframe. 
Mr M and Miss S did not agree. They said Santander shouldve  contacted them  straight 
away and theyd incurred  costs having to call the bank instead. They also reiterated  that they 
thought Santander had given Mr M mis-leading information at the time over how long it 
would take for the payment to be released.  As Mr M and Miss S did not agree  with our 
adjudicators opinion the complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr M and Miss Ss account allow  Santander to refuse or delay 
transactions and suspend  use of the account  if it has concerns that the account may be 
being used fraudulently or without the account holders permission. So I dont think 
Santander has acted  unreasonably by carrying out further checks  on this transaction.
Ref: DRN89886592Mr M and Miss S have  said that they made  a number of similar  transactions to this one in the 
weeks and months before  this transaction was investigated, so dont  see why this one was 
flagged for additional checking.  But a business fraud prevention procedures are by 
necessity confidential.  And what may trigger an alert might  be different at different times. 
Santander has also said that each transaction is looked at individually,  which I dont think is 
unreasonable. And taking all of this into account  I cant say that Santander has made  an 
error by deciding to review this transaction before allowing it to proceed.
Mr M and Miss S said that in addition to being unhappy with the transaction being  reviewed, 
it also caused embarrassment as the money was delayed.  But in the calls Mr M had with 
Santander on 1 September, which Ive listened  to, while he did say the money was needed 
urgently he also said the money needed to be released on that day, as he needed it for use 
on 3 September  (the following Monday). And the money was released  on 1 September.  
The transaction was attempted at 5:43pm on 31 August  2018,  which  was a Friday. 
Santanders review  meant  that the payment was not processed  immediately but did go 
through at 10:58am on 1 September  2018, which Mr M and Miss Ss account statements 
confirm.
While I appreciate that Mr M and Miss S were  frustrated with Santanders actions and how 
long this took, when it considers a transaction needs to be reviewed, this wont be an instant 
process. And its not unreasonable  that this may be affected by the operating  hours of the 
relevant department. Here I think the review  was done in a reasonable time. Because of this, 
and because I dont  think Santander was wrong  to undertake the review  in the first place, I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Santander  to compensate  Mr M and Miss S for any 
embarrassment they suffered or the difference in exchange rate between  when  they first 
tried to process the transaction  and when it was completed. 
In terms of the customer service Mr M and Miss S received, theyve pointed out that 
although Santander has said it didnt have a valid phone number for them  Mr M was sent a 
passcode to authorise the transaction just before it was stopped. And I agree that this seems  
to contradict what Santander  has said about not having a number on which  to contact them.  
But in any event the terms and conditions of their account say that if Santander does decline 
a transaction it will tell them by the end of the following working  day that it has done so and 
the reasons for this. Mr M contacted Santander straight after the transaction was stopped, 
removing the need for Santander to get in touch  with him. But even if he hadnt done so, 
under the terms  of the account Santander wasnt required  to get in touch immediately.
Mr M has said he was told when he first called that the account  would be reinstated by 8am 
the following  day. And then that hed receive  a call when this was done  but neither of these 
things happened.
Ref: DRN89886593Santander has provided recordings of some of the discussions  Mr M had with it. I can see 
Mr M spoke  to Santander a number  of times.  And some of calls are unavailable. As Ive 
already mentioned Ive listened  to the calls that were  available and its clear Mr M was 
unhappy with Santanders decision to review  the transaction and its explanation of what was 
happening. Ive also taken into account what he has said about what  was discussed and I do 
understand his frustration  that Santander  wasnt  able to release the payment when he first 
called. But from the calls I have  listened  to I think Santander did what  they could to help 
Mr M. It was explained to him that the transaction needed to be reviewed by a specialist 
department. It is evident from the calls that Mr M was unhappy with this explanation. But I 
dont think that means  it was wrong of Santander to explain this. There was some 
uncertainty over how fast this would happen   but as the representatives Mr M was speaking 
to werent directly responsible for the review, its understandable that they couldnt be certain 
when the block  would  be lifted.  And I dont think that Santander has tried to intentionally 
mislead Mr M. And as Ive already explained,  I think the review was completed  in a 
reasonable time frame.
I think it wouldve been helpful, based  on the calls that Ive heard, if Santander had 
contacted Mr M and Miss S as soon  as the review  was complete. But while  its unfortunate 
that this didnt happen, I dont think it would be fair to recommend that Santander make an 
award for this, as overall I dont  think it has acted unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8988659