K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Beadles Group Limited mis-sold her a policy  providing critical illness 
and life cover with a hire purchase loan.
background
In 2006, Miss M took out a two year hire purchase  loan for a car. At the same time she was 
sold a policy  which protected the repayments  on her loan if she was to be diagnosed with a 
critical illness. The policy would also have paid off her loan in the event of her death.
Our adjudicator thought that the policy had been  mis-sold to Miss M by Beadles. Beadles 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Both Miss M and Beadles say that this was an advised sale, so Ive taken this to be the 
case. This means  that Beadles needed  to ensure  that the policy was suitable for Miss M. 
Beadles hasnt been  able to provide full details of the policy it recommended to her. But from 
what I know of Miss Ms circumstances at the time of this sale, I dont think  the policy  was 
likely to have been a suitable  one for her. I say this because Miss M has confirmed that she 
didnt have any dependents at that time. In these circumstances, I dont think  that she had a 
strong need for a policy which only provided  her with critical illness and life cover on a car 
hire purchase agreement lasting twenty  four months. So I dont think  Beadles should have 
recommended such  a policy to her. 
Beadles also needed to give Miss M enough information for her to decide whether she 
wanted to take the policy. I dont know what Miss M was told about the policy by the Beadles 
representative she spoke  to. And Beadles  hasnt provided copies  of all the written 
information about the policy shed  have been given  to read at the time of the sale. So I dont 
think I can be sure that Beadles did provide enough information for her to decide  if the policy 
was right for her. And I think this would have mattered to Miss M. I say this because, if shed 
been more fully informed about the policy, I dont think she would have wanted to pay its 
monthly cost of £26.92, given the relatively  limited benefit it gave her in the circumstances 
she was in at the time.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  which  Beadles  has made in disagreeing with our 
adjudicators decision.  This includes what it has said about the demand and needs 
statement which Miss M signed at the time demonstrating that the policy was suitable for 
her. But having looked  at this statement, I dont agree  that this does demonstrate that the 
policy recommended  to her was suitable.  I still think that, given her circumstances at the 
time, this isnt likely  to have been  a policy which offered her good  value for the money she 
needed to pay for it. And although  Beadles  says that Miss M would have received all the 
information required by her to make  an informed choice about taking the policy, I still dont 
think it has been able to demonstrate adequately  that this was the case.
It follows from what Ive said that I think the policy was mis-sold by Beadles.
Ref: DRN85944082putting things right
Beadles should put Miss M in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out the policy. 
So Beadles should:
Pay Miss M the amount she paid each month for the policy.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Beadles  to take off tax from this interest. Beadles must  
give Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Beadles Group Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8594408