K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS)  have  unfairly declined  a claim he 
made on his home insurance policy.  
background
In March 2019 Mr P contacted CIS to register a claim for storm damage to a flat roof on his 
property. CIS declined to cover the claim as it said there  werent any storm conditions on the 
date Mr P had said the damage had occurred. It also said Mr P had confirmed  no repairs  
had been carried  out to the roof for a number of years,  so the internal water damage to his 
bathroom had likely  happened over time. 
Mr P complained to CIS. He said fences  had been blown down as well as a gazebo canopy  
due to the high winds at the time. CIS didnt agree to change  its mind, so he brought his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator said he thought there  were  storm conditions  around  the time Mr P reported  
the damage. But he thought CIS had acted fairly in declining the claim for other  reasons. He 
said based on the report and the photos  CIS were reasonable in saying the damage caused 
wasnt consistent with what  would typically be caused by a storm. So he didnt think  the 
damage should be covered. He also thought CIS had acted reasonably  in declining to cover  
the internal repairs  to the property. 
Mr P didnt accept what our investigator  said. He said the flat roof had been replaced every 
10 years  and his own contractor has said the damage was caused by a storm. He also said 
on reading the terms and conditions  of his policy he couldnt understand why the internal 
damage wasnt covered.  So he asked for an ombudsman to review  the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three  questions:
has it been proven,  on balance, there were storm conditions on or around the 
date the damage  occurred?
is the nature of the damage consistent  with that typically caused by a storm?
were the storm conditions the main or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we say the claim should succeed.  But, if 
the answer to any is no  the claim wont succeed  under this section.
Ive considered the weather conditions  from around  the time Mr P reported the damage. 
Having done so, I agree with our investigator  that the wind speeds on the day Mr P reported  
the damage were  sufficiently strong  to be considered  as a storm. So I think  CIS were  
incorrect to say it wouldnt cover  the damage  as it hadnt been shown there was a storm.
But even though the answer to the first question is yes, the further two questions also need 
to be considered for me to say CIS should cover the claim. And having looked  at everything,  
I dont think its likely  that the damage is consistent  with that typically caused by a storm. So 
CIS has acted reasonably  in declining the claim.  Ive explained why below.
Ref: DRN87858332From the photos provided in the report, there doesnt appear to be much damage to the flat 
roof. There  is a large pool of water  sitting on the roof, which CIS loss adjuster says is 
causing the issue. It says whenever there  is rainfall  the water  is overflowing over the lead 
flashing, which has allowed the water to get into the bathroom below.  I think  thats a 
reasonable explanation  and not one that is consistent with damage that is typically  caused 
by a storm. Ive checked the weather records for the day CIS loss adjuster attended, and 
there was very little rainfall on that day. So the pool of water on the roof must have been 
there for some time which suggests the rainwater wasnt draining  from the roof.
The loss adjuster further says the area of damage seems to be where the flat roof section 
meets a tiled section.  I cant see any damage from the pictures;  there is no section of the 
roof that has been lifted by the wind or tiles that are displaced, which would typically  be 
consistent with damage  caused by high winds. But it seems  reasonable that this is where the 
water was getting into Mr Ps property  as it matches where the damage appeared internally. 
But because there doesnt appear to be any damage to the tiles or to the flat roof itself,  its 
reasonable for CIS to say that any damage  is unlikely to have been caused as a result of a 
storm. If water is overflowing the lead flashing  and getting into the property, it seems the 
lead flashing would  have to be allowing water  in. I dont think its likely the storm conditions 
affected the lead flashing  as I cant see any section has been  lifted  or displaced  by the storm 
winds. 
Mr P has said his own contractor has confirmed there was storm damage and has replaced 
various tiles. But he hasnt provided  anything  from his contractor that persuades  me the 
damage was caused by high winds. 
There are circumstances  where the internal  damage  to Mr Ps property would  be covered 
even when the external damage isnt. If it was shown that the rainfall alone was at a strong 
enough intensity  to be considered as a storm, then wed generally  say the internal works 
should be covered  under  storm damage, even if the external damage isnt.  But I dont think 
that applies in this case. Ive checked the weather reports on the day the claim was reported 
to see if the rainfall  experienced  was of a severe enough intensity to be considered  a storm 
on its own. But the records show that rainfall on that day was relatively low. And in the days 
prior to that whilst there  was more rainfall,  Im satisfied it wasnt  at an intensity that would be 
enough to say it was a storm. 
I dont doubt Mr Ps area suffered  a lot of rainfall  in the weeks leading  up to the claim; the 
weather records support  this. But I think this shows its more likely  that the rain was getting 
into the property  over a period of time, and that is what  caused the damage rather  than a 
one-off storm event. So CIS doesnt have to cover the internal damage.
I understand Mr P has had to fund the repairs himself, and that has caused a strain on his 
finances. But I can only ask CIS to cover this amount  if its shown, on balance; the damage 
was caused by a storm.  And for the reasons given above I dont think it was. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Ref: DRN87858333Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8785833