K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains Woodstock Insurance Brokers  Limited mis-sold his buildings  insurance 
policy, leading to his insurer declining a claim under his policy.  
background
Mr H rented out his property in 2016  whilst he was away. When  he returned in 2017, he 
discovered the tenants had used the property as a cannabis farm and had caused serious 
damage to the property.
Mr H made  a claim against his insurer for the damage. Some of the damage was covered by 
the insurer but most of it wasnt as the insurer said it had been caused  deliberately  by 
persons lawfully on the property.  It said this damage was excluded  under the policy. Our 
service has considered a complaint against the insurer separately,  so I wont  revisit this in 
this decision.
Mr H complained against the broker,  Woodstock.  He said when  hed taken out the policy, 
hed specifically asked  if he was covered for malicious damage caused by tenants  and was 
assured he had this cover. So he said Woodstock had mis-sold the policy  to him.
Our investigator said Woodstock hadnt given Mr H correct information about the policy when 
he took it out. And as a result  he said Mr H had lost out. He was satisfied if Woodstock had 
told Mr H about what the policy  didnt cover him for, hed have looked for a more  suitable 
insurance policy. So he thought Woodstock should  pay what  Mr H had paid to have his 
property repaired,  which was around  £6,800. 
Mr H accepted what our investigator  said but Woodstock didnt. It said it hadnt provided 
incorrect information to Mr H. Hed asked  if malicious damage was covered and it was under 
the policy, so its response was correct. It said it wasnt  giving  advice about  the insurance,  so 
it didnt need to advise him that deliberate damage wasnt  covered. So it didnt think it had 
mis-sold the policy. 
As Woodstock didnt agree, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why below.
Woodstock has provided its terms of business to us. In this it says Woodstock will not give 
advice or recommend a product. It says its customers  will need  to make their own choice 
about how to proceed.  I accept Woodstocks sale of Mr Hs insurance may not have been an 
advised one but under the regulations  it still needed to provide  Mr H with information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order for him to be able to decide if the policy would suit 
his needs.
Mr H told Woodstock he was moving  abroad so his needs had changed about the home  
insurance he needed. He told them the property was to be rented out but having  looked at 
the policy Mr H was provided, this isnt a landlord policy. It seems  to me its a standard 
Ref: DRN81229512residential buildings insurance policy. And based  on what Ive seen Im not satisfied this met 
his needs. And I dont  think  Woodstock gave him all of the information it should have done.
Before agreeing to the policy, Mr H asked a number of specific  questions to Woodstock  
about the policy. He asked for additional accidental  damage cover  to be added to his policy.  
And he also asked whether hed be covered for malicious damage caused  by tenants.
In its response,  Woodstock said he was covered for malicious damage by tenants, but theft 
of landlords contents  by tenants wasnt. Ive checked Mr Hs policy, and whilst I can see 
damage caused by malicious acts is covered, tenants are not mentioned in the policy. And 
there is no term in the policy which references  theft of a landlords contents  by a tenant  
being excluded.  So I dont think what they told him in response to his question was correct.
I also think, in order  to give him information  that was clear, fair and not misleading, 
Woodstock should  have told Mr H that deliberate damage caused by people  lawfully  in the 
property would be excluded. I think its clear from Mr Hs queries that he was concerned  
about the cover hed have whilst  renting out his home. And I think  Woodstock should have 
known that this was an exclusion that would have had implications for Mr H if there was to 
be any issues with his tenants. So I dont think Woodstock gave all of the information  it 
should have in response to Mr Hs questions.
Im satisfied based on what Ive seen  that had Mr H had all of the information he should  
have, he could have  taken steps to increase the level of cover he had. And given he was 
clearly concerned about having sufficient cover, I think  its most  likely hed have looked for a 
policy to give him a higher level of cover against  potential damage by tenants. And there are 
policies he could have  got that would have allowed him to make a successful claim for the 
damage his property had incurred.
 
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Woodstock to pay 
compensation equivalent to the amount Mr H would have received from his insurer  had he 
been able to make a successful claim.  After  taking off the policy  excess  of £250, the amount 
Mr H said he paid for the repairs was £6,875.07. I note the insurer held a reserve  for the 
repairs at £8,000, but some of this damage  was covered under a separate part of the policy.  
Given Mr Hs repairs seem to be in line with the reserve set by the insurer  for what it would 
have cost it; I think £6,875.07 is the amount Woodstock  should pay Mr H in compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Woodstock Insurance Brokers  
Limited to pay Mr H £6,875.07. It should add 8% interest on this figure  from the date Mr H 
paid for the repairs, until the date of settlement.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
1 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Woodstock Insurance  Brokers  Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Woodstock Insurance Brokers  Limited must  give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN81229513
Ref: DRN8122951