K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  about errors  and delays by Barclays Bank UK PLC when she re-mortgaged. 
She says she was misled  about whether her unsecured debts  would be repaid from an 
interest refund.   
background
Ms B previously  brought a complaint  to our service about her mortgage  with Barclays. An 
ombudsman issued a final decision  in September 2015 which Ms B accepted.  The 2015 final 
decision required Barclays to:
Fairly assess consolidating Ms Bs mortgage  account and mortgage current account 
(MCA) into a single mortgage  account.
Extend the term of her mortgage if this was suitable and affordable.
The application process started in November 2015.  Initially, it was intended that Ms Bs 
mortgage account, MCA and credit  card debt would be consolidated  into one account. The 
application needed to be referred to a specialist team  within Barclays.
There were delays and this application, and subsequent applications, expired. In September 
2016 Barclays declined  the application due to concerns about affordability.  Ms B says 
Barclays told her it would refund some  of the interest  applied  to her MCA. 
In September  2016 Barclays issued a mortgage offer to consolidate the MCA and mortgage  
account. This was on condition that Ms B repaid her credit card debts  (about £6,000)  within  
30 days of completion. Ms B said she was unable to do this and would  have to repay  her 
credit card debts on a monthly basis. Barclays said this wasnt affordable.
The mortgage application was then processed on the basis that the interest refund would be 
used to repay the credit card debts.  A new mortgage offer was issued in January 2017.  This 
included a condition  that Ms B repay commitments of about  £9,650  in full, within  30 days of 
completion. The mortgage completed  in February  2017. In March 2017  Ms B received an 
interest rebate of £1,425,  which wasnt enough  to repay her credit card debts.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties, setting out what  I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said while Barclays had made  errors, the compensation it offered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I said while the interest  refund  was less than Ms B had 
expected, she wasnt worse off as a result of the re-mortgage. 
Ms B provided further information about  what had happened, which Ive read and taken into 
account when  writing this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN83930152There were delays in Barclays processing Ms Bs application for a new mortgage. Barclays  
says this was because Ms B wasnt in regular work, and she didnt have two years accounts  
to support her projected self-employed income. It was also concerned about her levels of 
unsecured debts. Ms B says her work  position  hadnt changed since she took out the 
mortgage in 2001.
However, theres no dispute that the time taken   from November 2015 to February  2017   
to process Ms Bs application for a mortgage  was unacceptable.  And there was a delay in 
Barclays refunding  interest after completion,  as it had said it would do. Barclays  agreed its 
service was poor and paid £500  to Ms B for the distress and inconvenience this caused. It 
also paid £1,425 for the difference in the interest rate between the MCA and new mortgage  
between September  2015  and completion of the new mortgage. 
Barclays offered Ms B a further  £500 for the distress  its delays had caused.
was Ms B misled about the interest  refund?
Ms B says it was agreed that Barclays would refund interest on the MCA from the start of the 
mortgage in 2001. Barclays says it offered to refund  interest on the MCA from November 
2015, due to the delays  in processing the re-mortgage after November 2015.
Ive listened to the call in September  2016 between Ms B and the person at Barclays  
responsible for calculating  the refund. Ms B asked how much  the refund  would  be and for 
the dates to be confirmed. Barclays told Ms B interest was calculated  on a daily basis, and 
so it wasnt possible to calculate the interest refund until after the new mortgage  completed.  
Barclays said the refund would  then be used to reduce  the balance.  Ms B said she didnt 
understand and asked  for an email confirming  this and giving the dates.  Barclays  provided a 
copy of the email, which unfortunately Ms B says she didnt receive. The email  repeated  
what had been  said on the call  that Barclays couldnt provide  a calculation until the 
mortgage completed. No dates were mentioned. 
I think Barclays could have been more helpful  here,  perhaps by giving an example  
calculation to give Ms B an idea of the amount of the refund she could  expect. This might  
also have helped clear  up any misunderstanding  about the date when the refund would start. 
However, Barclays didnt  say on the call that the refund  would start in 2001 and I havent 
seen other  evidence to support what Ms B has said  that Barclays offered to refund interest 
from 2001, or even  from 2013 when she made her first complaint. On balance,  it seems 
more likely Barclays offered to refund interest  from November 2015 because  of the delays 
with the re-mortgage.  
did Barclays make  an error with the mortgage  offer?
It seems  Barclays mortgage adviser believed  the interest refund would be enough to repay 
Ms Bs credit  card debts. Its not clear why he thought this as no calculations  were provided 
before completion.  The poor communication within Barclays likely contributed to the error. 
Barclays knew Ms B was unable to clear her credit  card debts from her own resources. 
Theres a note in its records  saying we have received the call from applicant they say they 
wont be able to pay of the credit  card commitment of £6000  and will be paying it off on a 
monthly basis. Barclays had also reviewed Ms Bs income and expenditure and financial 
commitments as part of its affordability assessment. 
Ref: DRN83930153Barclays issued a mortgage offer in January 2017.  It was a condition that Ms B repaid credit  
card and store card debts of about  £9,650 within  30 days. Ms B accepted the offer. She says 
she wouldnt  have gone ahead if shed known the interest refund wouldnt be enough to 
repay the unsecured debts. 
is Ms B worse  off as a result  of the re-mortgage?
Barclays had assessed the mortgage  as unaffordable unless the credit card debts were 
cleared. It says there was no guarantee that the interest refund would cover these debts. But 
its not clear how Barclays thought Ms B would repay the debts.
Barclays made errors here. But this doesnt  mean Ms B is worse off as a result. 
Ms B told Barclays she wanted a 15-year term and to reduce her monthly  outgoings. The 
mortgage balance  (about £47,000) didnt  increase  as a result of the re-mortgage.  Ms B paid 
fees and costs of about £250 for the re-mortgage. The interest  rate on the new mortgage is 
0.74%. Before Ms B re-mortgaged, the interest rate on her mortgage was 0.99% and 
Barclays standard variable rate (4.99%) applied to the MCA. The re-mortgage meant Ms B 
had a better interest rate. 
If the re-mortgage hadnt gone ahead, Ms B would still have the unsecured  debts, and a 
mortgage and MCA with a higher interest  rate and higher monthly payments. So I dont  think 
shes worse off as a result. Theres no early repayment charge, so Ms B can still re-finance 
with another provider if she wants  to do so.
Ms Bs other complaints  about Barclays service
Ms B says she was asked  for documents a number of times.  This seems likely, given the 
time taken  for the re-mortgage. I must  also take into account that Ms Bs circumstances 
changed during this time and Barclays would  have needed to ask for further documents. 
Ms B says she was told at the last minute that she had to repay the credit card debts  within 
30 days. I dont  think  thats right. Initially it was intended the credit  card debts would be 
consolidated. But from September 2016  Barclays said consolidating her credit card debts 
wasnt affordable. As Ive said above,  I agree Barclays made mistakes here  in particular 
its unclear how Barclays  thought Ms B would be able to repay her credit  card debts. And I 
think its likely Ms B was expecting the interest refund to be enough to repay some or all of 
her credit card debts.  But Ive also said why I dont think  these  errors  caused financial loss.
what happens now?
Barclays refunded the additional interest  Ms B paid between  November 2015 and the re-
mortgage. So she wasnt out of pocket due to the delays in processing the re-mortgage. It 
paid compensation of £500 and offered another £500 for the upset caused and Ms B having 
to provide updated documents  and information as a result of the delays. Overall, I think this 
is fair and reasonable. 
In her response to my provisional  decision,  Ms B raised some  new issues  which  hadnt been  
part of her complaint,  including:
Barclays added mortgage protection when she took out the mortgage  in 2001 and at the 
re-mortgage in 2017. She says it made errors  which left her out of pocket. 
Ref: DRN83930154her overall indebtedness  hasnt  reduced  as her mortgage balance  and unsecured  debts 
add up to about £53,000. She says her monthly payments are higher. She says this is 
due to errors by Barclays. 
Barclays required her to use the interest refund  to reduce her mortgage balance  some 
months after she received the cheque in March  2017. She made  the payment in January 
2019 and had to borrow on credit cards  and use a tax fund to do so.
It wouldnt be fair for me to deal with these issues here, in a final decision, when the parties 
havent had an opportunity to provide evidence and comments. If Ms B remains concerned, 
she should raise  these issues with Barclays.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. This is because I think the interest  refund 
and £500 compensation  paid to Ms B, and the offer of a further £500 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8393015