K820x#14complaint
Mr T is complaining that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) emailed him to say that he 
could review his credit  card account  online, but it had sold the debt to another company. 
background
In 2012 Mr T took out a credit  card through Tesco. He subsequently got into arrears  on the 
account. And in July 2016 Tesco sold the debt to another company.  But Tesco subsequently 
emailed Mr T to say that he could  review his statement online. Mr T then complained  to 
Tesco that it had done so, as he says the account should have a zero balance.
Tesco reviewed Mr T's account  and found  that a system error had caused it to incorrectly  
send him the email.  It apologised and said it had removed Mr Ts email address from its 
database so that he didnt  get another email. It also offered  him £25 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter had caused  him. 
Our investigator thought Tescos compensation was fair. So she didnt think  it needed to do 
anything further.  Mr T didnt agree with the investigator. He says he has a protected 
characteristic and he says Tesco and the investigator havent taken into account the impact 
Tescos actions have had on that.
As Mr T didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Tesco shouldnt have sent the email  it sent to Mr T as it had sold the 
debt to another company.  So Mr T didnt owe it any further money. Ive taken Mr Ts 
comments into account  including what hes said about the impact this has had on his 
protected characteristic.  
Tesco has offered Mr T £25 in compensation and I think thats fair in the circumstances. I 
acknowledge that Mr T has said that Tesco didnt take into account his protected 
characteristics. But it seems to me that Tesco made  a small administrative error. And I 
havent seen enough to say that Mr T suffered any significant distress and inconvenience as 
a result of this. 
I acknowledge that Mr T is unhappy that Tesco did this. But my role isnt to fine and punish a 
business, but to look to put things right where things have gone wrong. And I think  £25 is fair 
compensation for whats happened. Tesco  has also said its removed Mr Ts email address 
from its database. So I think its also taken  fair steps to ensure  this error doesnt happen 
again. 
Ref: DRN85403702my final decision
Tesco Personal Finance PLC has already  made an offer to pay Mr T £25 to settle the 
complaint. For the reasons Ive set out above,  its my final decision that this is a fair offer to 
put things right. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should pay this to Mr T directly  if he now 
wishes to accept this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8540370