K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent him 
money that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr A wants  Satsuma  to pay him compensation.
background
Mr A took out three instalment loans with Satsuma.  The first in December 2015 was for 
£600. Satsuma  expected  Mr A to repay the loan over 26 weeks at about £44 each month.  
Mr A repaid  loan one in June 2016.
Mr A took out the second loan for £300  in April 2017. Mr A was due to repay the second  loan 
by six monthly instalments of about £95. Mr A repaid loan two in November 2017.
Mr A took out loan three  for £200  in January  2018. Satsuma expected him to repay the loan 
over six months by instalments of £63. Mr A still owes money on loan three.
Mr A says that he was borrowing from a number of different lenders all at the same time.   
Mr A says that all of his salary is going  to pay off lenders. Mr A says that he had to take out 
new loans to repay old ones. Mr A wants Lending Stream  to freeze the interest and charges 
on his account  and let him pay a small amount each month.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr As complaint be upheld.  She thought that 
Satsuma carried out adequate checks before agreeing  the three loans. And based on the 
income and expenditure figures  Mr A gave Satsuma, it was reasonable to have  agreed  to 
lend.
Mr A doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr A points out that Lending 
Stream hasnt shared its credit report.  Mr A says that he can clearly  show that he was in 
financial difficulties and was relying on family members to help support him. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr A 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr A was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and his borrowing  history.  But there wasnt a set list of checks that Satsuma had to do.
Even if I find that Satsuma didnt  carry out adequate checks, it wont  necessarily mean  that I 
must uphold  Mr As complaint. I would need  to be persuaded  that with proportionate checks,  
Satsuma wouldve discovered that some  or all of the loans werent  affordable for Mr A.
loan one
Satsuma expected Mr A to repay  a relatively  modest proportion  of his declared  income  of 
over £3,240 each  month. From the information  Mr A gave about his income  and expenses  it 
Ref: DRN83375812looked as though he could afford  the repayments  on loan one. Satsuma also carried  out 
checks to include any undeclared credit commitments as part of its affordability  assessment. 
I cant reasonably say that Satsuma was wrong to agree loan one based  on what  Mr A told it 
about his circumstances and the expenditure buffer  that it added to his declared expenses.
loan two
Mr A applied for loan two more than ten months  after hed repaid loan one and the loan was 
half the amount  that hed borrowed first time around.
Satsuma has given  us evidence that it asked  Mr A about his income and expenditure. Again, 
Satsuma increased the amount of Mr As expenses to take account of any undeclared 
expenditure that it could see on his credit file.
Satsuma says that Mr A declared his monthly income to be £3,675.  Satsuma recorded his 
expenses to be around £3,280, leaving him with just under £400 of disposable income.  
I consider Satsumas checks went far enough. It looked as though  Mr A could afford the 
repayments on loan two.
loan three
Satsumas records show that Mr A declared  a monthly income  of £3,243  with monthly 
expenses of £1,977.
Satsuma increased Mr As expenses to take account of any undeclared credit commitments 
it could see on his credit file. This left Mr A with around £610 of disposable  income. 
Overall, I consider that Satsumas checks were proportionate and the loan repayments 
appeared affordable.
Although Satsuma hasnt  given  us copies of the credit searches that it carried  out, it appears 
to have taken  account of any undeclared  credit expenses that it could see in them. I also 
cant see any defaults or County Court  Judgments on the credit report  that Mr A has given to 
us. So I cant say that Satsuma was aware  of any information that shouldve  prompted it to 
ask more questions  than it did.
I appreciate that Mr As financial situation  was worse  than he told Satsuma but I dont 
consider that Satsuma  needed to go as far as trying  to independently verify the information 
that he gave. This means Satsuma couldnt have known that Mr A was borrowing from family 
to help support  himself  unless hed made it aware of this at the time.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr A but I dont uphold his complaint. Satsuma has explained  that it 
doesnt add any further interest or charges to loan three over and above the total amount 
agreed in the loan.  
If Mr A hasnt  done so already, I urge him to contact Satsuma to try and agree  an affordable 
repayment plan.  If Mr A does this, I remind Satsuma of its duty to treat Mr A reasonably and 
sympathetically. 
Ref: DRN83375813my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8337581