K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about how Lloyds  Bank  PLC have treated her since  her interest only 
mortgage term came to an end.
background
Mrs R has a mortgage with Lloyds that is made up of different sub accounts. Some  of these 
sub accounts were originally on an interest  only basis, the terms of which  ended  in 2015. 
The other sub accounts were on a repayment  basis, and these were redeemed  in 2018 
when the terms  ended.
In earlier  years, an arrears balance  had built up on the mortgage, which Mrs R was gradually 
reducing through payment  arrangements. These arrangements continued  until 2018 when 
Lloyds stopped collecting the additional agreed  amount  via direct debit. Mrs R complained  
about this at the time, and Lloyds  resumed the arrangement theyd previously agreed until 
March 2019 when they explained theyd need an up to date review  of Mrs Rs circumstances 
before agreeing anything further. They sent Mrs R an income and expenditure form in the 
post for her to complete.  Mrs R referred that complaint to our service and we dealt with it at 
the time.
In the meantime, Mrs R had contacted Lloyds to ask about the end of the mortgage term on 
the interest only sub accounts  in early 2018.  During  these conversations  Mrs R was told that 
Lloyds couldnt  discuss any options  about  her end of term whilst there were still arrears  on 
the account. 
Mrs R complained about the way Lloyds had treated her and the fact they werent giving her 
any options in how she could repay  her mortgage  balance. Lloyds issued their final response  
letter in April 2019. In this letter they said that it was their policy that the end of term team  
couldnt deal with Mrs R whilst there were arrears  on the account. But they said Mrs R 
should have been referred to their financial assistance team who could have assessed her 
circumstances, and agreed an arrangement to clear the arrears. They  said once the arrears 
were cleared, the end of term team would be able to review things. 
Lloyds noted that Mrs R hadnt returned the income  and expenditure form theyd sent and 
asked her to complete this so they could review her circumstances.  Lloyds  offered  Mrs R 
£50 to apologise for the customer service shed  received.
Mrs R asked us to look into this complaint. Since  the complaint came  to our service,  Mrs R 
discussed her circumstances with Lloyds again, and they agreed to look at capitalising  her 
arrears if she was able to maintain her contractual monthly payment for six months. They 
said that once  that is done, they could switch  her mortgage to repayment and extend the 
term for 10 years. Mrs R was happy  with this outcome, but she was still unhappy this option 
hadnt been given to her earlier. She felt that if shed been  given  this option when the term 
ended in 2015, or at the latest when she asked about her options in branch in 2017, then 
she would  have been better  off and the mortgage  would have been  repaid sooner than it 
now will be.
Our investigator looked into things, and agreed Lloyds could have reviewed Mrs Rs 
circumstances earlier than they had done. She said if theyd done  this, Mrs R may have 
been able to reduce the arrears more quickly and then she could have explored her options. 
Ref: DRN83372562As a result, she recommended Lloyds pay Mrs R £250  to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Lloyds accepted this view,  but Mrs R didnt. In order to put things right Mrs R wanted  Lloyds 
to reduce the term of the mortgage so that it ends when it would have done had they 
switched it to repayment sooner. She wanted  her contractual  monthly payment to stay the 
same, and Lloyds  to make up the difference  to reflect the time that shes lost the opportunity 
of having the mortgage  on a repayment basis.
Our investigator considered everything again,  and said that as she was satisfied Lloyds 
should have helped Mrs R earlier than they had done,  Lloyds should  re-work the mortgage  
as if it had been switched to a repayment  mortgage  in March 2019  when Lloyds  recognised 
they needed to agree a new arrangement with Mrs R, and could have done something  
differently. She said Lloyds should  adjust the overall mortgage balance to reflect  the 
payments Mrs R has paid since March 2019.  She still thought Lloyds  should  pay Mrs R £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Lloyds agreed  to adjust Mrs Rs mortgage  account  as the investigator had proposed.  They 
calculated that this would mean crediting Mrs Rs mortgage balance  with an amount of just 
under £5,000, and the mortgage term would be changed to nine years and six months 
starting from 1 March 2019.  Lloyds said if Mrs R agreed to this, her monthly payment would 
increase by £34.
Mrs R didnt accept this as a resolution  to her complaint. She still felt it was unfair that these 
changes were only being backdated  to March 2019,  when shed been asking about  her 
options much earlier  than this. Mrs R also provided information about other problems shes 
had with Lloyds  since they agreed  to switch the mortgage to repayment and extend the term, 
as well as problems with her contact details. Lloyds  dealt with these new issues as separate  
complaints.
As Mrs R still disagreed with the outcome, and the investigator wasnt persuaded to change  
her opinion, the case has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2021. This is what I said.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I firstly want to acknowledge  all of the information Mrs R has shared with us about her 
experience with Lloyds in relation to her mortgage.  I appreciate shes been  having difficulties 
with them  for a considerable period of time, and I want to assure her that Ive considered 
everything shes told us and the impact she says these dealings  have had on her. 
I also want to note that Mrs R has raised other complaints about how Lloyds have treated 
her, and whilst  Im aware  of these, and they provide context for this complaint  in particular, in 
this decision I am only considering Mrs Rs complaint  that Lloyds didnt do enough to help 
her when her mortgage term ended, and didnt  provide her with information about  her 
options, which shes since been able to take advantage of.
Ref: DRN83372563Im pleased to hear that Mrs Rs primary concern about how she would repay the mortgage  
balance without losing her home, has now been  resolved. So the matter thats left for me to 
decide is whether  Lloyds  needs to do anything more  to put things right, by adjusting the 
mortgage further back than theyve offered to do so far.
Mrs R has said that Lloyds didnt  do enough  to make her aware that the interest  only parts  of 
her mortgage term were ending in 2015. Lloyds have provided information that shows  they 
sent Mrs R letters in the lead up to her term ending to make sure she was aware of the 
position, and check whether she had a plan to repay the balance.  Ive also seen  the 
statements Lloyds sent to Mrs R which contained details of the remaining terms, and I note 
that Mrs R has made a complaint to Lloyds in the past, which resulted in Lloyds clarifying the 
terms of her mortgage sub-accounts. So, considering all the evidence, Im satisfied Lloyds 
took sufficient steps to ensure Mrs R was aware  that her interest  only sub accounts  on her 
mortgage were ending in 2015.
As a starting point,  its Mrs Rs responsibility to ensure  she has a plan to repay her mortgage 
at the end of the term, as agreed  when she took it out. Im satisfied Lloyds had given Mrs R 
enough information about the position  of the mortgage, so it was for Mrs R to act on this 
information and tell Lloyds about  her plans, or ask for help if she was unable  to repay the 
balance.
However, I do appreciate  things were not straightforward here as when the interest  only sub 
accounts expired,  the rest of the mortgage  still continued until 2018. Mrs R had an existing 
arrangement with Lloyds to make additional  payments  each month towards her arrears 
balance, which pre-dated  the term expiry of the interest only sub accounts. But from what I 
can see from the information provided,  after the terms  had expired  in 2015, this arrangement 
just continued  with no further requests made by Lloyds to repay the outstanding balance. It 
seems it was only when the repayment part of the mortgage came close  to ending  in 2018, 
that Lloyds stopped the arrangement and changed  the amount it was collecting from Mrs R 
by direct debit. But after Mrs R complained about this, the arrangement was put back  in 
place and continued to reduce the arrears.
Lloyds have said that whilst the interest  only sub accounts of Mrs Rs mortgage ended  in 
2015, because  there  was still a repayment  balance that hadnt yet expired, and arrears on 
the account that were being  reduced  through an arrangement, they didnt pursue Mrs R for 
the outstanding interest  only balance. Ive looked at the contact notes and I cant  see Mrs R 
asked Lloyds about any other  options,  or put forward any proposals  for her mortgage in 
2015, so I think  the steps Lloyds took here were reasonable at the time.
Mrs R says that in 2017 she went into a Lloyds  branch and asked about the possibility of her 
son taking over the mortgage.  She says she was told that wouldnt be an option if Mrs R 
wanted to remain  living in the property  so that didnt  go any further.  Lloyds dont have any 
notes to show that this conversation did take place, but I think on balance  its likely a 
conversation did happen.  However,  Mrs R hasnt told us about any other  options  she asked 
Lloyds to consider  at that time other  than her son taking over the mortgage, and Lloyds 
continued to allow Mrs R to maintain  her arrangement whilst the rest of the mortgage was 
still running. Based on what  both parties have told us, Im not persuaded Lloyds should have 
taken further action in 2017.
However, I think in 2018 more could have been  done to help Mrs R. When  Mrs R asked  
about her options  in March 2018, I can see from the notes Lloyds have provided there was 
confusion internally about which department Mrs R would need to speak to about her 
Ref: DRN83372564mortgage. She was initially told she needed  to speak to the end of term team, but then later 
told she would have  to speak to collections because the end of term team  wouldnt be able 
to help whilst  the mortgage was in arrears. Lloyds have told us that was their policy  at the 
time, so theyre satisfied  there was nothing further  they could have done to help Mrs R until 
their policy changed  towards the end of 2018.  
I appreciate it was Lloyds  policy in early  2018  that they couldnt review the mortgage whilst  it 
was in arrears, but Im not persuaded that resulted in fair treatment in Mrs Rs particular  
case. She had called Lloyds to ask about her options of how she was going  to repay the 
balance, so I would have expected Lloyds to engage with that and carry out a review  of 
Mrs Rs overall  position  to see what may have been  available. Instead, they maintained  the 
arrangement previously agreed, which would have  helped  to reduce the arrears gradually, 
but the full mortgage term was due to end later that year and its unclear what Lloyds was 
expecting to happen at that stage. So I consider that Lloyds actions were just delaying  the 
inevitable problem of what Mrs R would  do when the mortgage fully expired.
As it happened Lloyds were able to help later down the line by making  changes  to Mrs Rs 
mortgage, allowing  her to stay in her home.  Other than Lloyds internal policy changing, I 
dont see any other  reason why these changes couldnt have been made  earlier when Mrs R 
asked about it in March 2018. As far as Im aware  there havent been  any changes  to her 
circumstances since then that would have affected her ability to make  the monthly payments 
that have since  been agreed. And she continued to pay her monthly payments, as well as 
the additional amount towards  the arrangement during this period. 
As a result, I think March 2018 is when Lloyds should have considered Mrs Rs overall 
circumstances and potential options,  and the changes to the mortgage should have been 
arranged for her. This would have meant  capitalising the arrears, switching the mortgage to 
repayment and extending the term.
I understand Mrs R will be disappointed  that Im not asking Lloyds to make further changes 
as shes requested. But as I havent  seen any evidence that she asked Lloyds  about  this 
earlier, Im not persuaded Lloyds should have acted differently before 2018.
Putting things right
Lloyds have already agreed to re-work Mrs Rs mortgage account  to reflect  what  the balance 
and term should  have been  had they made the changes to the mortgage in March 2019. 
Should Mrs R accept  my decision, Lloyds  will need to take this calculation  back  further to re-
construct the mortgage as if the changes  were made in March 2018.
Any underfunding that would have resulted from the change should be credited to Mrs Rs 
mortgage account to reduce the outstanding  balance. And the contractual monthly payment 
that Mrs R has now agreed  to based on her current affordability should remain the same.
Im also persuaded  that Mrs R has been  caused  distress and inconvenience as a result of 
Lloyds not taking steps to help her earlier than they did. Im satisfied the £250 recommended  
by the investigator  is a fair amount to reflect that.
responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds accepted the outcome of my provisional decision and agreed to backdate the 
changes to the mortgage to March 2018. They said that after the adjustments  would be 
Ref: DRN83372565made to the account, the CMP would  be £596  moving forwards. This would be an increase 
of around £37.
Mrs R didnt accept the outcome  Id reached. She said it was Lloyds responsibility to do 
more to contact her in 2015 when the terms of the sub accounts had ended. She felt theyd 
not acted in line with the regulators  guidance.  She said she was trying to engage with them, 
but they just kept telling her to seek independent  financial advice.
Mrs R says the bank should have made the changes  to the mortgage in 2015,  and as a 
result she should only have five years  left on the term. She said she cant  afford an increase 
in the CMP and so she needs this to remain the same. She also said that Lloyds didnt need 
to complete an income and expenditure assessment, as the changes were eventually  made 
on the phone without this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the latest submissions from both 
parties.
I appreciate Mrs Rs strength of feeling about whats happened, and the position shes  now 
in. But Im afraid what shes told me has not changed my decision about how Lloyds should 
put things right for her.
Ive already explained in my provisional  decision that I think Lloyds did enough to make 
Mrs R aware of the situation  in 2015,  and it was for Mrs R to act on this and put forward  
proposals of how she wanted the mortgage to be repaid. In the absence of any proposals, 
Lloyds allowed Mrs R more time to redeem the interest only sub accounts on the mortgage,  
and Im satisfied this was fair. As a result, Im still not persuaded Lloyds should backdate the 
changes made to the mortgage as far back as 2015.
Mrs R has also said that Lloyds did not need  to carry  out an income and expenditure 
assessment in order to make the changes to the mortgage. Ive said that Lloyds should back  
date the changes to the mortgage  as if they took place in March  2018 despite no 
assessment having  taken  place. Lloyds have agreed to that approach.
Its not clear from Lloyds calculations why the changes Ive asked them to make will result  in 
an increase to Mrs Rs CMP. The changes were agreed in 2020  based on what  Mrs R could 
afford at the time. So I dont think its reasonable to now put Mrs R in a position where shes  
expected to make higher monthly payments than she says she can afford. As a result, 
Lloyds will need to remediate the account  in such a way that results in Mrs Rs CMP 
remaining as agreed. Ive explained that any underfunding of the mortgage thats resulted 
from Lloyds actions should be paid by Lloyds.  So Im satisfied the retrospective changes 
should be made without affecting  the amount of CMP moving forwards.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint and instruct  
Lloyds Bank  PLC to:
Re-structure Mrs Rs mortgage account as if the changes they made in 2020 were  
made in March 2018.
Ref: DRN83372566Credit any underfunding  amounts that result from the re-structure  to Mrs Rs 
mortgage account, without changing the current contractual monthly payment.
Pay Mrs R £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337256