K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Advantage  Insurance Company Limited unfairly charge people not 
born in the UK higher car insurance premiums.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In 2016, Mr B got an online  quote for a car insurance policy  with Advantage. He then called 
and completed the application and took out the policy. Soon after, Mr B noticed that some of 
the details Advantage had for him were  incorrect. The policy documents  wrongly said that 
Mr B had been resident in the UK since birth. Mr B asked Advantage to correct  that as he 
had been resident in the UK not from birth but from when he was a child.
When Advantage made the amendment Mr B was asked to pay an additional premium of 
approximately £130. Mr B complained. He said Advantages pricing policy  was racist and 
that he was discriminated  against because he wasnt born in the UK. 
Advantage looked into his complaint but didnt uphold it. Mr B didn't think that was fair so he 
brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. But he didnt 
think that Advantage had done  anything wrong.  As Mr B didnt agree with our adjudicator, 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
In his complaint,  Mr B has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Advantage have dealt with Mr B in a fair and reasonable way.
I should say that Mr B made a complaint  in 2016 against the broker involved  in his policy.  As 
a result of that complaint,  Mr B was allowed to cancel the policy without penalty and he was 
awarded compensation. This decision therefore  only deals with Mr Bs complaint about  
Advantages pricing on the residency of policyholders being discriminatory.
Mr B believes the increase to his premium was discriminatory given it was based on the 
place of his birth. It might help if I explain that we're not the industry regulator. That means  
it's not my role to tell an insurer how much  they can charge for their policies.  And our service  
generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat customers 
with similar  circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what  they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  In doing so insurers  take 
into consideration many different factors. And its not down to me to tell insurers what factors  
they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments. 
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. 
Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against  the need  to 
Ref: DRN84516462compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to 
interfere with. 
I can understand why Mr B thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium  
because he hadnt  lived in the UK since birth. But each  insurer will have their own methods 
of calculating risk. Im aware that many  insurers think an individual  who hasnt lived in the 
UK since birth presents a higher risk than people  who have. But other  insurers  might not 
think the same. As insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk, I dont think theres 
anything wrong  with insurers considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher 
risk groupings. That is, as long as they have  data to support their assessments. In this case 
Advantage have  data that shows that policyholders  who haven't  lived in the UK since  birth 
are more likely  to make a claim than those  who have and that the amount of time theyve 
spent in the UK is also a factor. And Im aware that Advantage  don't calculate premiums 
based on where the policyholder was born,  only on how long theyve lived in the UK. So they 
dont consider a customers nationality or race. So I think a British  citizen born and raised 
abroad who becomes  resident in the UK later on in life would be treated in the same  way as 
Mr B, so I cant  say Mr B has been  singled out or treated differently to others in similar 
circumstances. 
Finally, Im aware  that Mr B has complained to the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  about  
this matter. They are the industry regulator  and are separate to our service. Its therefore not 
appropriate for me to comment on Mr Bs dealings with the FCA.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.  
  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8451646