K822xComplaint
Mr C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) wont  refund him the money  he lost 
when he was the victim of a scam. 
Background
What Mr C says
Mr C says that in October 2018 he moved  to a new house. At the end of October 2018, he 
received a call from someone saying  they were from a different banks fraud department.  
Mr C was asked if he recognised three payments  from his account with that other bank. 
He didnt recognise the payments and the caller said hed cancel them.  
Over the next few days Mr C received further calls from the person saying they were from 
another bank  and calls from someone  saying they were  from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Mr C says calls from the bank and the FCA were from the correct numbers. 
The caller  from the bank told Mr C his accounts  at the bank he was calling from and 
Barclays, as well as his investments, were  under  threat and that Barclays bank staff were  
involved. The caller  from the FCA told Mr C they were investigating individuals in Barclays  
who had gained access to his personal  information.  At the time Mr C was persuaded he was 
talking to two different  people, but he now thinks its likely the same  person called him saying 
he was from different organisations. 
Mr C was told by the caller that all his funds were at risk and needed to be moved to a safe 
account that had been  set up for him. He was asked to name the account and as hed 
recently had some electrical  work  completed at the flat hed just bought,  he gave the name  
of an electrical company.  
Initially Mr C was asked by the caller to apply for a loan with Barclays for £25,000.  He was 
told that somebody had applied  for a loan on his account so he needed to apply for one, and 
when this was rejected  the other loan would be cancelled automatically. Mr Cs recollection 
of the conversation is hazy, and he now recognises  that what  he was told doesnt make  
sense, but at the time Mr C says he was persuaded to act based  on what  the caller  told him. 
He was told he should retain  all paperwork for a future court case.  Mr C received the loan on 
31 October 2018 and transferred it to the new safe account the same day. It is shown as the 
first payment  to the electrical  company  in the table of payments below. 
Mr C says he was told that if bank staff had access  to his bank account,  they might  also 
have access to his investments.  So he was persuaded  to cash in his investments and 
transfer the cash proceeds to his Barclays account  and then move  them  on to the new 
account. He was advised that his financial advisor may ask him questions about  why he was 
doing this, and he should say that he was having  renovation work done  at his new home. 
Mr C says he was told not to give his financial advisor or Barclays the real reason for the 
transfers, as this would jeopardise the investigation.  Mr C made the following transfers  from 
his investment portfolio to his Barclays account: 
Date Amount
06/11/18 £25,000
08/11/18 £60,000
28/11/18 £39,360.89
Total £124,360.89
Ref: DRN86391822Mr C then made the following payments to the electrical company account he was advised to 
transfer to:
Date Amount
31/10/18 £25,000
06/11/18 £25,000
08/11/18 £25,000
09/11/18 £25,000
10/11/18 £10,000
28/11/18 £25,000
28/11/18 £5,000
29/11/18 £4,000
Total £144,000
He says that each  time he made  an online transfer the caller was on the telephone providing 
instructions and guidance. Mr C explains he wasnt good with technology, but the caller  
talked him through each step. The caller sounded knowledgeable, persuasive and plausible.     
Mr C says he received calls most  days in which he was given an update  on the ongoing  
investigation or asked  to transfer funds.
Mr C says he didnt become fully aware  of the situation with the loan until he saw the direct 
debit payment for the first loan repayment leaving his account  on 28 November  2018.  By the 
time Mr C saw this he had already made  the transfers Ive set out in the table above. On the 
afternoon 29 November 2018  Mr C says he became very uncomfortable and contacted  the 
FCA and Barclays. He was told hed been the victim of a scam. 
Mr C said the transactions  he made in 2018 were unique and different to his previous 
financial behaviour,  which should  have alerted Barclays to the possibility of fraud. He applied  
for a significant loan for the first time when Barclays was aware he had savings,  but Barclays 
didnt question why he did this. Mr C also said he transferred £144,000 in eight transactions,  
five of which were for five figure sums, which was unprecedented for him and should have 
raised concerns  with Barclays.  In relation to warnings he received, Mr C says they werent  
adequate or appropriate  given the nature of the scam. He said each time he made  a transfer  
the fraudster was on the line and pressure was exerted on him to give the responses  he 
gave to Barclays when  the bank questioned him about some of the payments.
What Barclays say
Barclays said Mr C had made  the transactions using online banking  with the use of PIN 
Sentry, which was required  to set up a new payee. It suspended Mr Cs online banking 
service on 31 October 2018  after he attempted to transfer the £25,000  hed received from 
his Barclayloan application. Following this, Barclays spoke to Mr C and he explained  he was 
having building work completed at his property.  When Mr C was putting  through  subsequent 
payments he had to answer automated questions and on 9 November 2018 Mr C was also 
asked to confirm  the payment in a telephone  conversation. Barclays  has provided all the 
questions Mr C was asked each  time he made a payment. Ill quote and comment  on them 
later in my decision. 
As a gesture  of goodwill Barclays agreed to write  off the £25,000 loan. Barclays also 
recognised it hadnt dealt  with Mr Cs complaint as quickly  or as well as it could have and 
offered Mr C £200 compensation. It also said it had followed the correct process to try and 
recover the money Mr C had transferred out of his account and had returned the £7.46 that 
Ref: DRN86391823remained in the receiving bank account (which was with another  bank)  when it was notified 
of the scam.
Our investigation so far
The investigator upheld  the complaint. He said Mr C authorised  the payments, but Barclays 
should have done more.  In respect of the first payment the investigator noted that Barclays 
spotted it was out of character and blocked it. But when Barclays spoke to Mr C about the 
transaction it could  have  asked more questions covering the type of work Mr C was having 
done. Although  Mr C said the £25,000  payment was for renovation it was actually made to 
an electrical company.  The investigator considered this to be a large sum to pay for electrical 
work and concluded that Mr C would have struggled to answer  further questions if the bank 
had pressed him. The investigator also said Mr C wasnt warned that Barclays  would never 
ask him to transfer  funds to another account.  Had further questions been  asked  and an 
appropriate warning  given, the investigator  thought Mr C would have re-considered  the 
payment.
Turning to subsequent transfers, the investigator said they were  out of character in terms of 
amount, frequency and activity (as Mr C paid investments in to his account and then 
transferred them out straight away). So there was enough for Barclays to be concerned Mr C 
was at risk of financial harm and it should  have taken steps to look in to things further. The 
investigator said the automated texts Barclays had sent were insufficient and Barclays  
should have called Mr C or asked him to call and pressed  him on what  was happening. Had 
Barclays have done so, the scam would have been uncovered.
Mr C accepted the investigators opinion, but Barclays didnt so the complaint was passed  to 
me. I informally approached Barclays and asked if it would refund Mr Cs payments together 
with interest and an additional  £150  for the upset its actions caused. I said this because  I felt 
the payments  were  unusual and out of character for Mr C and Barclays hadnt done enough 
to protect  him. 
I said Mr C should have  been questioned about why he was paying  £144,000 to an electrical  
company. I also referred to the call when the first £25,000 payment was made and noted 
there was no discussion  about why a substantial payment was being  made  to the same 
electrician hed recently paid £652  to  but this time the account  details were different. In the 
call, Mr C wasnt asked an open question about the reason for the payment and if he had 
been, hed have struggled to give a plausible answer. I felt Mr C would have  had more  
difficulty explaining  the reason for the subsequent payments. I also noted that the warning 
given to Mr C about not being able to get his money back  and the online questions  didnt go 
far enough  particularly  given the sophisticated  nature of the scam Mr C had fallen  victim to. 
Barclays didnt agree and has asked me to consider the following:
-The first payment Mr C made  was challenged in a lengthy phone call in which Mr C 
was asked if he was 100%  confident  about who he was paying and advised Barclays 
wouldnt be able to get the money back.  If Mr C had heeded what Barclays  said he 
should have been  alerted to the fact he was being scammed.
-Mr C gave plausible answers  and would have been primed  on the answers to further 
questions so there was nothing Barclays could  have  done to break the spell and a 
different set of questions wouldnt have made  a difference. As Mr C had just moved  
to a new house, hed have been  knowledgeable  about the work required,  for example 
from the survey, so could have answered  further  questions. The fact that he gave a 
Ref: DRN86391824vague answer to a question doesnt  mean he couldnt have provided more detailed  
responses. 
-Mr C was a professional and competent individual with no vulnerabilities.
-Each subsequent  payment was challenged  by text message and the questions Mr C 
was asked were relevant  to the type of scam Mr C was the victim of. Barclays  
provided the wording  for each warning and said that had Mr C heeded the warnings 
he could have been prevented from making the payments. 
-The scam was highly sophisticated and took place over the course of a month so 
does not fit the normal  pattern of a safe account  scam. In these circumstances 
Barclays dont think the activity  should  have  prompted further discussion, particularly 
as Mr C had responded to text messages. 
-It is plausible that someone who has just bought a new house  would  want to invest 
significantly in it.
-Bank staff wouldnt have in-depth knowledge of the cost of electrical work.
-Despite the numerous warnings given  to him about the exact type of scam, Mr C 
didnt complete any checks himself. 
-The Banking Protocol  principles dont currently apply to telephone and online 
transactions.   
-SMS  text messages are a recognised form of communication across the industry  and 
Mr C received numerous warnings via this method. 
-Although the Contingent Reimbursement  Model (CRM)  doesnt apply to this 
complaint it represents an enhancement of past guidance. The CRMs  Overarching  
Principle is to, minimise disruption  to legitimate Payment Journeys. On this basis 
this services expectation that Barclays should have stopped the payment is 
excessive and inappropriate. 
-Overall, given the extent of the warnings and the discussion around  scams there was 
nothing more Barclays could have done  to prevent the scam. 
After considering Barclays response  I issued my provisional decision on 4 February  2021.  In 
my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
Ref: DRN86391825practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to consider whether Barclays  acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings 
with Mr C when he authorised the payments  from his account or whether it could and should  
have done more before processing them. That is a question of fact and degree  depending 
on the circumstances of each individual case.
Did Barclays act fairly and reasonably in Mr Cs case?
The first payment for £25,000
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays should  have 
been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. Having reviewed Mr Cs 
bank statements from December 2017 onwards its clear  the payment was unusual. Most 
payments from the account were for less than £100 and Mr C had only made one previous 
online transfer for £652 on 26 October 2018. This was the payment  to the genuine  
electrician. Mr C had issued cheques for up to £3,100  so for much  smaller amounts.  
In July 2018 Mr C received a giro credit for nearly  £50,000 from an investment company. 
This sum was then paid out to a firm of solicitors in October 2018  when Mr C bought his new 
flat. This is the only significant historic payment from Mr Cs account and was a one-off 
payment. Mr C says that before the payment he went in to branch  and informed staff of the 
imminent transaction, and Barclays notes confirm  this, and that Mr C asked that it be double  
checked. In the circumstances  I dont consider it would be fair to say this payment reflects  
Mr Cs normal  account history. I also consider Barclays had more reason to question the 
£25,000 payment  to the fraudster, given  that Mr C went in to branch to discuss  the only other  
large payment he had made before that.  
At the time Mr C attempted to make the payment online, he answered  all the following 
questions with an N for no:
Is this a usual payment  for you? 
Have you used your PINsentry device while on an unexpected call with anyone? 
Have you been asked  to protect your funds by sending your money  to a safe account?  
Barclays accepts this was an unusual payment for Mr C and this is why it was flagged by its 
fraud detection system, the payment  blocked,  Mr Cs online banking  facility suspended and 
there was a conversation with Mr C. Ive listened  to the call with Mr C who said hed recently 
moved, and the payment was for work done  at his new property. He was asked if he was 
Ref: DRN86391826100% confident about the company he was paying and 100% sure the company was going  
to complete the work to a high standard. The adviser went  on to say the reason she asked 
was because once  the payment had been  made  Barclays couldnt get it back  if it was 
because of a scam  or anything similar. 
The adviser told Mr C the fact the payment  was large, to a new payee and involved a 
different IP address  made the payment high  risk. The different IP address was explained 
by the fact Mr C had recently  moved.  The adviser  noted Mr C had paid £652  to an electrician 
on 26 October 2018 and asked  Mr C what hed done differently in terms of how he made the 
payment. Mr C said hed made  both payments  online and the previous  payment was for a bit 
of separate work. But there was no discussion about  the fact that although the payments 
were said to be to the same electrician the account details were different. 
Barclays has told me a company (like Mr Cs electricians)  may change its banking details 
and that its unreasonable  to expect it to cross-reference new payments with historic ones. 
But in this case Mr C was transferring a large sum of money  to a new payee,  which  the 
adviser said (combined with the different IP address)  made  it high risk. Barclays was also 
aware of the previous payment Mr C had made to his electrician as this was mentioned 
specifically during the call, so the bank could easily see that payment went  to a different 
account. 
 
Although the call lasted nearly half an hour Mr C was asked for very little information  about 
the blocked payment. He wasnt asked an open  question about what  the payment was for. 
Instead the adviser said, What is it youre having  done? Are you getting a new kitchen and 
bathroom? Mr C replied, Umm hum, you name it. And the focus of the call seemed to be 
on whether Mr C was making  the payment himself, which he was.
Having carefully considered what was discussed  in the call I dont agree with Barclays  
conclusion that had Mr C heeded what he was told in the call hed have  realised he was 
being scammed. The only discussion that took place related to the quality of the work  and 
the only warning  he was given was that his funds wouldnt be returned. Given the 
circumstances Mr C was at risk of being  the victim of several  different types of scam  
including email intercept  and safe account   common  scams which  I think  Barclays 
shouldve been  aware of  but relevant questions werent asked, or warnings given to protect 
Mr C. The adviser simply  considered whether a rogue trader was involved and didnt ask 
relevant questions about the work at Mr Cs home.  Barclays is aware that victims of scams  
are often given a cover story by the fraudster and should have recognised this was a 
possibility in Mr Cs case.
I also dont consider a warning that says if this is a scam you wont  get your money  back  is 
sufficient. Scam victims generally  dont  know they are being scammed and are not aware  
more widely  of the type, variety or sophistication of how scams unfold. Industry guidance 
and best practice  all points towards banks needing to be inquisitive and taking  steps to 
satisfy themselves that their customer isnt at risk of financial harm. As Ive pointed out, I 
dont think the conversation  with Mr C went  far enough. Mr C wasnt made aware of the 
types of scams or the steps he could take to protect himself and equally Im not persuaded 
that Barclays did enough to satisfy itself he wasnt at risk. 
Im aware of the fact Mr C was told by the scammer not to disclose the investigation  to 
Barclays, but he wasnt given a detailed cover story and his response to the closed question 
about the purpose of the payment wasnt detailed or particularly  persuasive.  Mr Cs answer 
was vague and gave no information about  the work  he said he was having  (Umm hum,  you 
Ref: DRN86391827name it). Barclays  has said this doesnt  mean Mr C wouldnt have been able to provide 
more detailed responses and that I should base my decision  on facts  not assumptions.  But 
as I dont consider  relevant questions were  asked, I have to consider whats  most likely to 
have happened  if such questions had been  asked.  
In any event, its well known that scammers  will convince consumers to have a cover  story 
with various degrees  of detail and good  industry  practice encourages banks to be on the 
look-out for this. And its one of the reasons why asking detailed questions and listening to 
the responses to see if they are plausible is suggested as a way to combat  this. So I 
disagree when  Barclays say it couldnt  have  reasonably prevented  the scam in this particular 
case.
I believe that had Mr C been asked further questions, such  as what the payment was for, 
why it was such a significant figure for electrical  work and why he was paying the same 
electrician but to a different account  hed have struggled to give plausible  answers. Whilst 
Mr C may have  been able to account  for having some work done  on his new flat the 
payment is significantly  larger than normal for him and for this type of work. Mr C had 
recently paid £652 for the electrical work hed had done when he moved in to his flat so 
could have provided evidence to justify  this figure if the bank had pressed him. But I think he 
would have had a lot more difficulty explaining  the detail of further electrical work costing 
£25,000. Given the fact Mr C wasnt given a detailed  cover  story he would have to have 
made something up on the spot.  I dont consider his answers  would have been  persuasive.
Barclays described Mr C as a professional and competent individual, which I think adds 
weight to my belief hed have  taken on board any warnings  he was given about  a possible 
scam and made further checks before making the payment. 
Subsequent payments
Even if Im wrong in saying Barclays could have prevented  the first payment from being 
made, I consider the next payment, and all further payments, could have been prevented. I 
say this because  after the first transaction, in five days, over four separate transactions, 
Mr C transferred £85,000 to the same account and made further  payments  a few weeks  
later. Barclays has said that as the transactions took place over the course of a month,  they 
dont fit the pattern of a safe account  scam, and I agree that safe account scams dont often 
carry on for that length of time. But I think  an unusual pattern of spending  had clearly  
emerged that warranted further investigation by Barclays to reassure it that Mr C wasnt  at 
risk of financial  harm. 
Im also mindful of the fact that Barclays accepted  Mr Cs assertion that he was paying an 
electrical company.  He initially  paid £25,000  and his subsequent four payments took the 
running total hed paid to the electrical  company to £50,000, £75,000, £100,000 and then 
£110,000 respectively. Research I have  done  suggests that in 2020 re-wiring a three-
bedroom house costs between £2,500 and £4,500, so even the first payment was well above 
this. Whilst I accept Barclays point  that its staff wouldnt have in-depth knowledge of the cost 
of electrical work, I consider the amounts to be clearly above  what would usually be 
expected for domestic electrical work.  This I think,  combined with the other  factors  Ive 
mentioned previously, should have indicated to Barclays that Mr C could have been  at risk of 
financial harm. 
Ill move  on to whether  I think the automated contextualised questions  were sufficient in the 
circumstances of this case.  Barclays says the following questions were  asked when Mr C 
made the payments on 6, 8 and 9 November 2018.
Ref: DRN86391828Have you been told that your account is under attack and that you need to transfer  your 
money? This is a common trick used by fraudsters. 
Have you received  any emails you weren't expecting containing links or attachments? 
Have you been told you're due a refund from somewhere you didn't expect, such  as your 
internet provider?  
Mr C gave a negative answer to each question.  
I accept that the first question relates to Mr Cs circumstances but am mindful of the 
sophisticated nature of this scam  and that Mr C says the scammer was on the phone with 
him every time he was making  a payment, the scammer said this type of warning would  
come up but he should ignore them because they were sent by Barclays and Barclays staff 
were involved  in the threat on his money, he was told not to reveal the reasons for the 
transfer to Barclays and the scammer  talked him through how to respond.  Unlike Mr C, 
Barclays was aware  of the prevalence  of safe account scams. Barclays was also aware of 
the pressure placed on scam victims not to discuss the payments they are making with the 
bank. So, whilst I accept that questions such as the ones quoted above are used by banks  
and have value  in some  cases, I dont consider that in the circumstances of Mr Cs case the 
questions posed  were sufficiently impactful  given everything that was going on, including 
that he thought  he was speaking with another bank and/or the FCA. 
I consider a further call was needed  and that had this happened  Mr C would have been even 
less likely to have been able to give a plausible account of why he was paying such  
significant additional sums  to an electrical company, and to a different account to the one 
hed first used. I also think a clear verbal warning would have had a much greater impact 
than a simple yes/no response  to an online question at the time of payment. Barclays is 
aware scammers are often on the phone at the time of the transfer telling the customer what  
to do which, as Ive said, is what Mr C says happened. 
I havent gone on to discuss the later payments because if the spell had been broken and 
the payments  discussed above  not been  made then it follows  the other transfers wouldnt 
have happened  either.
Barclays has referred to the CRM  and to one of the overarching principles of it  to minimise 
disruption to legitimate payment journeys  and said that this services expectation that it 
should have stopped the payments is excessive and inappropriate.  The CRM doesnt apply 
to this case because  the scam took place  before  the CRM came in to effect and I dont think  
its helpful to quote it out of context. The other overarching  principles  of the CRM are to 
reduce the occurrence of automated push payment (APP) scams and to increase the 
proportion of customers protected  from the impact of APP scams through  reimbursement 
and the reduction  of APP scams. Given these principles I dont agree this services 
expectations of Barclays in this particular case are excessive or inappropriate. 
Finally, Ive thought  about Barclays comment that Mr C didnt do anything  to protect himself, 
such as complete any checks himself. Mr C has explained he checked that the numbers he 
was called from matched  those for his bank  and the FCA.  He was persuaded that his life 
savings were at risk and that he needed  to take action to protect  them. And the scammer  
was persuasive, knowledgeable  and built a relationship with Mr C so that Mr C trusted him. 
Mr C genuinely thought he was talking to his bank and the FCA and that if he didnt follow 
the instructions  he was given he would lose all of his savings. In the circumstances, and 
Ref: DRN86391829given Mr C was over 70 at the time and had just moved to a new house  which  he 
described as a traumatic event, I can understand why he didnt do anything  more. But I think 
that had the prevalence of safe account  scams been discussed with Mr C, he would  have 
been prompted to look in to what hed been told by the scammer  and satisfy himself the 
callers claims  were  genuine. 
Putting things  right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint against Barclays.  I dont think  it was 
fair and reasonable for Barclays not to refund the amount Mr C lost through becoming the 
victim of a scam. 
To put him back in the position he was in before the scam I currently  think  Barclays  should 
take into account the following.  Mr C transferred £124,360.89 from his investment portfolio. 
Were it not for the scam, its likely he wouldnt have cashed in his investments. In the 
circumstances I consider Barclays should assess what the investments would have been  
worth at the date of settlement  if the funds had remained invested  and it may need to gather 
further information about the investment from Mr C and/or his adviser to enable  it to perform 
this calculation. If at the date of calculation the value  would now be greater than 
£124,360.89 Barclays should pay Mr C that amount, plus interest at 8% per year simple to 
the date of settlement. But if the value  would have been the same or less than £124,360.89  
Mr C hasnt suffered a loss so Barclays should  just return £119,000  as although he withdrew 
£124,360.89 from his investment, he only paid away £119,000 of that to the fraudster. 
The remaining  funds came from the £25,000  loan Mr C was persuaded to take out and the 
proceeds of which  he received on 31 October  2018.  Mr C then made three loan repayments  
on 29 November, 27 December 2018  and 28 January 2019. On 21 February 2019 Barclays  
refunded the £25,000 loan and the three  loan repayments Mr C made. In the circumstances I 
think the only thing  that remains for Barclays to do to put this part of things right is to pay 
interest of 8% per year simple, on each of the loan repayments calculated from the date 
each one was paid to the date they were  refunded.
Ive also considered whether Barclays should  pay Mr C further  compensation to recognise 
the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced as a result of its actions. I appreciate that 
the scammers are the ones responsible for the majority of the upset Mr C has suffered but I 
believe Barclays has unnecessarily added to it. Mr C has explained,  
The impact of the fraud has been,  and continues to be, traumatic  and the response from 
Barclays, both in terms of decisions and attitude,  has increased my feelings of stress,  
depression, anger, guilt and frustration. It occurred when I was vulnerable - over 70, living  
alone and under the stress of a property move.
Barclays has accepted  it didnt handle Mr Cs complaint as well as it could  have and has 
paid him £200,  which  I think  is reasonable. Im persuaded that Barclays could have 
significantly reduced the overall  impact on Mr C had it acted appropriately to prevent the 
fraud taking  place. It should  pay Mr C a further £150 to reflect  the significant distress its 
actions have caused. 
Mr C accepted what I said in my provisional  decision. Barclays accepted my overall findings 
but put forward an alternative  way of calculating interest. 
My findings
Ref: DRN863918210Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and taken in to account  the same  
considerations as I set out in my provisional decision. 
Both parties  accepted the overall findings I set out in my provisional decision and 
reproduced above. But Barclays put forward an alternative way of calculating the interest on 
Mr Cs losses  which weve  shared  with Mr C and hes accepted.  So I have awarded the 
interest agreed by the parties  and set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
-Refund Mr C the £119,000  he lost, less any sums recovered;
-Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple  per annum from the date 
of the transfer  to the date of settlement. If Barclays deducts  tax from the interest 
element of this award, it should provide Mr C with an appropriate tax deduction  
certificate; 
-Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per annum on each loan repayment calculated 
from the date each one was paid to the date they were  refunded;
-Remove all records  of the £25,000  loan from Mr Cs credit file;
-Pay Mr C an additional £150 compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8639182