K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Quilter  Financial Services Ltd failed to ensure that his instructions to 
change the investment of his pension savings into a cash fund were correctly implemented.
background
Mr P received advice  and servicing on his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) from an 
appointed representative of Quilter. Although Mr P had no direct contact with Quilter  itself, 
that firm is responsible for the work undertaken by its appointed  representative.  And for 
simplicity I will generally refer to Quilter as the advising business throughout this decision.
Mr P first dealt with Quilter in October  2017  when it assisted him with the transfer  of some 
pension savings into his SIPP.  And following that transaction he agreed to pay for an 
ongoing servicing arrangement from Quilter.
Mr P met with Quilter  in August 2018.  At that time he told Quilter  that he was concerned 
about the impact  of Brexit on his investments, and requested  that all his pension savings 
were moved into a cash fund until further  notice. Quilter got in touch with the provider of 
Mr Ps SIPP  to make that change.
But the following  month, following the provider  undertaking  a scheduled rebalancing 
exercise, Mr Ps pension savings were  returned  to the previous equity based  investments. 
This change  wasnt noticed  until November 2018 at which point the value  of Mr Ps pension 
savings had fallen  by approximately £12,000.
Mr P made complaints to both Quilter  and his SIPP provider as he wasnt clear  which  party 
was responsible for his pension savings being moved out of the cash  fund. In this complaint 
I am only looking at whether Quilter should be held responsible for the change.  Mr Ps 
complaint against  his SIPP provider  has been considered separately.
This complaint has been assessed  by one of our investigators. She concluded that Quilter 
was responsible for failing  to provide the correct  instructions to the SIPP  provider. So she 
asked Quilter to pay Mr P some  compensation.
Quilter didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr P accepts  my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr P, the SIPP provider, and by Quilter.  Where  the evidence is unclear, or there  are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based  on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked  at what evidence we do have,  and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely  to have happened.
Ref: DRN82417282There seems  to be no disagreement that Mr P gave a clear instruction to Quilter for his 
pension savings to be moved to a cash investment. Quilter  accepted  that request and 
implemented it. And it also seems clear that Mr P didnt give any instruction for that change 
to be reversed the following month.  So it seems  to me that it is entirely right that he should 
be compensated for the loss he suffered until the change was corrected in November 2018.
But the matter  I need  to decide, is where the responsibility for that mistake lies. Quilter says 
that it gave the correct  instruction to the SIPP provider and so it doesnt consider it should be 
held responsible for Mr Ps loss. And of course,  the SIPP provider says the opposite  that 
Quilters instructions failed to alter the rebalancing instruction that was in place on Mr Ps 
SIPP.
Quilter has told us that, following her meeting with Mr P, its advisor made  contact with the 
SIPP provider by telephone. And on that telephone call Quilter  says she asked the SIPP 
provider to;
Transfer Mr Ps pension  savings  to a cash fund
Turn off the ongoing advisor charge
Turn off the rebalancing of the account
Switch the default investment strategy to 100% cash 
We have asked Quilter if it is able to provide us with a recording of that call. Quilter says that 
it hasnt been  able to locate the call, or any file note relating  to the conversation.
Mr Ps SIPP  provider has said that it has no record of a call being  made  to request these 
changes. Instead it says that it received on online request from Quilter for the first two 
changes to be made. But it says that the last two changes would need  a separate application 
to be made,  and it has no record of that request being made by Quilter.
It seems  to me that it is more likely than not that Quilter is mistaken  about  how the request 
was made  to the SIPP provider. And given  that mistake I cannot  have any degree of 
confidence that it requested the rebalancing be turned  off and the investment strategy be 
changed. So ultimately that is the reason why Mr Ps pension investments were  incorrectly 
moved out of the cash fund by the scheduled rebalancing activity in September 2018.
Mr Ps SIPP  provider has told us that it was facing an IT problem at that time, and so 
statements it sent on SIPP accounts in November 2018 incorrectly  recorded that rebalancing 
was not selected on the account. I can see that error  on the statement Mr P was sent. But it 
seems to me that statement was sent around the same time that the investment mistake was 
discovered  and didnt lead to the mistake  remaining on Mr Ps SIPP for any length  of time. 
So in this instance I cannot conclude  that those IT problems  caused any of the loss that Mr P 
has suffered.
Ultimately Mr P had placed  his trust in the professional expertise of Quilter. I think it was 
reasonable for him to expect Quilter to carry out his instructions  correctly  and to be in a 
position to identify what steps it needed  to take in line with the SIPP  providers systems to 
ensure that investment strategy  remained in place. I have little confidence in Quilters  
assertion that the instructions were given by telephone. And given I think  they were  most 
likely submitted online I think it likely that Quilter failed to make  the separate instruction to 
turn off the rebalancing  and change the investment strategy.  It follows that I think Quilter  is 
responsible for the loss Mr P has suffered  and needs to put things  right.
Ref: DRN82417283putting things right
I think that Quilter failed to ensure that Mr Ps investment instructions  were correctly 
implemented. So to put things right, Quilter should;
Calculate the loss in capital value Mr P suffered between  the point at which  his 
pension savings were  switched out of cash in September 2018, and the point at 
which they were returned to cash in November 2018.
Mr P has told us that he has since moved his pension savings to a new provider, but they 
remain in a cash fund.  So Im not going to ask Quilter to make  a further payment to reflect 
any investment loss Mr P has suffered  I dont think he has made a loss in this regard.
The loss should  be paid into Mr P's SIPP. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If Quilter  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr P's SIPP,  it should  pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income  
tax that would otherwise have been  paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr P's expected marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. 
Quilter should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision  
to the date of settlement (if compensation is not paid within  28 days  of the business  being 
notified of acceptance).
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr P how much has been taken off. Quilter should  give Mr P a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and direct  Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8241728