K820x#14complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the work  carried out by Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) in 
respect of her home  insurance  claim for water damage.
background
In March 2018 Mrs W made a claim to RSA following a leak which  affected  a bedroom and 
kitchen. RSA appointed loss adjusters who in turn appointed  contractors to repair  the 
damage. The work took some time to complete and Mrs W was dissatisfied  with the length of 
time the repairs took, the poor communication and the way the contractors left her home. 
RSA agreed that the builders service had been  poor, particularly the standard  of work and 
the delays. It paid Mrs S £100 in June for the initial  failings, and a further £250 plus £20 for 
phone calls in October 2018. It also paid the costs of an emergency  plumber  of £100.
Mrs W told us that she wasnt concerned about  the compensation  paid. She was unhappy 
with the finished standard  of work  in the bedroom. In particular she was unhappy that the 
wallpaper didnt  match in the corner and that there were marks on the ceiling where it was 
completed poorly. RSA referred the matter to its surveyor who said the work had been 
completed to a satisfactory  standard. In respect of the wallpaper it was impossible to carry 
out a complete match all around the room  - there was always  going to be one corner where 
the pattern  didnt  match up completely. It also said the room wasnt completely  square so the 
paper had to be slightly  angled  at the ceiling level. In its final response on the issue  RSA 
said the work had been completed to a good standard and returned to its pre-loss condition.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the compensation paid was appropriate  
to reflect  the amount of inconvenience  and distress  suffered, and the work appeared to have 
been completed to a satisfactory standard so he couldnt  expect  RSA to do anything more.
Mrs W advised that she had consulted two decorators who had said that the work had been 
done poorly. They werent willing  to put their opinions  in writing. She pointed out that she 
was also unhappy  with the finish of the ceiling. Our investigator said that if she wanted  to 
challenge the standard of work she would need to get a surveyors  report, but she couldnt 
guarantee that RSA would pay for it. Mrs W said she couldnt afford the cost.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
issues arising during  the claim
Mrs W complained  initially  that she was told by RSA that it couldnt send a plumber  out to 
her to fix the leak. She had to pay for an emergency  plumber herself. RSA said that although  
it wouldnt have sent a plumber out, Mrs W did have home emergency cover  and it should  
have advised  her to make  a claim.
Mrs W was also upset with RSAs surveyor who came out initially, particularly at the way he 
spoke to her and that he took photos  with her in the picture. RSA apologised if she was 
upset by this. It paid the emergency plumbers invoice and £100 compensation.
Ref: DRN87609132Mrs W suffered  further delays during the claim  and had to chase up contractors who left the 
job without advising when  they would be returning. I understand that there were hold ups 
over the delivery  of materials,  and Mrs W had to do a lot of chasing up.
Mrs W was further  unhappy with the state that the plumber left her sanitary ware in after 
completing work.
The work was completed in July 2018.  Mrs W was dissatisfied with the standard of work. 
RSA agreed that it was poor in places  and arranged remedial repairs which took place in 
early October 2018. For these issues, the delay and the poor communication  RSA paid a 
further £250 compensation and £20 for phone calls.
I think that the total payment of £370  is fair compensation  and is in line with the sort of award 
we have made in similar  cases.
wallpaper matching/ceiling finish
Mrs W remains unhappy with the standard of finish to the bedroom, particularly that the 
wallpaper doesnt match in one corner and that the ceiling has a decorating line where the 
repairs have been  painted over.
RSAs surveyor, although not coming out again to the property, said that the wallpaper had 
been hung correctly. It was impossible to match the pattern in all four corners, so the 
decorators made the mismatch over the door,  where  there  was the least  amount of paper. 
As for the paper meeting  the ceiling, this couldnt  be cut completely square  as the ceiling 
wasnt square. The decorators followed the correct procedure, which was to follow the line of 
the skirting board.
I can only go from the photos and Mrs Ws and the surveyors comments. The pattern, which 
is quite a detailed  one, appears to match except for the corner  over the door. Whilst Mrs W 
says she has got decorators opinions, the only specific one she relayed to us was that he 
agreed that the pattern  had to mismatch at one point.  Mrs W says she could have  been  
consulted and the mismatch hidden behind  furniture. As the decorators appear  to have 
followed standard procedure, I dont think it would  be appropriate  to ask them to do any 
more.
As for the ceiling, I cant see anything wrong with this from the photos. Mrs W says there is a 
clear line of paint which  doesnt match. As RSA says the work has been completed to a 
satisfactory standard and there was a final inspection, I cant  say that it should do anything 
further. I should point out that RSAs  liability  was to return  the property to its pre-loss 
condition. In older properties, ceilings and walls are often off square. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Ref: DRN87609133Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8760913