K821x#15Complaint
Ms W, who is represented by Mr B, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) 
Limited (VFS) failed to collect  a car at the agreed time and later imposed charges for 
damage to the car.
Background
In August  2015  Ms W acquired  a new car funded by a hire purchase agreement  with VFS. In 
July 2018 she voluntarily terminated  the agreement and VFS instructed  its agent to collect  
the car. The agent failed to turn up on several  occasions which  Ms W says caused her 
distress and inconvenience. She says she had to park her car on a neighbours drive. 
The agent  said it did turn up to collect the car, within the agreed time window, but Ms W 
wasnt there. VFS has also said that under the terms and conditions  of the agreement it was 
Ms Ws responsibility  to return the car. It explained that the use of the agent  to collect  the car 
was a value added service which Ms W had chosen  to use.
Ms W says the agent collecting the car told her it was in good  condition, but VFS sent her an 
invoice for £129.60.  VFS passed  Ms Ws initial  complaint about  the delay in collecting the 
car to the agent which offered her £150  compensation. After the matter was referred  to this 
service VFS said that it would write  off the £129.60  as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Ms Ws complaint as considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. 
He didnt think it was right for VFS to pass responsibility for the complaint about the 
collection to its agent. He believed VFS was responsible for the collection of the car once Ms 
W had opted for that service. He thought Ms W had been caused unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience over a 2 month period whilst  trying  to arrange for the collection of the car. He 
concluded that VFS should pay Ms W £100 on top of the £150 offered by the agent for the 
distress and inconvenience she had encountered by the delayed  collection.
He also reviewed the agents report of damage to the car and inspected the photographs.  He 
explained that the standard  for what is fair wear and tear used by the industry is set out in 
British Vehicle Rental  and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines. He set out in some 
detail his view on the damage to the wheels and he concluded that for one the scuffs fell 
within fair wear and tear. He concluded  it was reasonable for VFS to have charged Ms W 
£72 plus VAT for the remaining damage which he believed went  beyond fair wear  and tear.
VFS agreed  with his conclusions, but Ms W didnt. She said she wanted  to be paid for 
storage fees and asked why she hadnt  been allowed to leave the car at the dealer who had 
sold it to her? Our adjudicator sought  clarification from VFS which  said that some  dealers 
didnt have insurance cover for returned cars. Ms W also asked why she had been advised 
to keep the car on her drive rather than the road.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
Ref: DRN84912532the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them. Nor is it my role to comment on hypothetical situations.
I note that Ms W has asked that she meet or speak with me, but I dont  consider  that 
necessary or appropriate in the circumstances of this complaint. I trust she wont see this as 
discourteous, but I am satisfied I have sufficient  information to allow  me to discharge my 
responsibility of reaching a conclusion which is fair to both parties.
I can understand that Ms W was frustrated at the delay in collecting the car. Clearly  the 
collecting agent and Ms W have their own views of why this happened, but I would expect 
collection to be settled  without such a delay. I agree that Ms W has encountered  some 
distress and inconvenience and I think the sum of £150 offered  by the agent was 
reasonable. 
However, our adjudicator  has suggested this be increased and VFS has agreed.  I believe 
this takes the figure to the high end of what I consider  reasonable, but I have concluded that 
I need not change that recommendation. Ms W was able to store the car as she wished  and 
it was open to her to have taken any advice as she so desired. As for the matter  of storage I 
can see no basis for VFS paying  for that. There is no requirement for it to do so under the 
terms and conditions of the agreement and I believe the payment  of £250 is sufficient 
redress.
I am aware  that Ms W did fewer miles in the car than she signed up to when she took out the 
agreement, but there are no grounds for any refund for doing so. She agreed  to the mileage 
and it was open to her to make more use of the car than she did.
Turning to the damage I have noted  that our adjudicator set out his thoughts in some  detail 
and I am in agreement with his conclusions. The BVRLA guidelines give clear guidance on 
what is deemed to be acceptable  wear  and tear and the damage on two of the wheels falls 
outside what is held to be acceptable.  VFS was entitled to charge  for that damage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Ms W £100 compensation and to reduce the charge for damage  to 
£86.40 inclusive of VAT.  It can net off the two if it wishes. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or reject  my decision before 
3 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8491253