K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complained that Gefion Insurance A/S has unfairly refused to pay his private hire 
insurance claim. 
background
Mr N claimed  on his policy in October 2018 after his car was written-off  in an accident. Mr N 
complained to our service  about the value Gefion had placed  on his car. Once  that complaint 
was resolved, Gefion  said it asked  Mr N for information about the ownership of the vehicle 
so it could look into paying the claim.
Mr N became frustrated by the amount  of information Gefion asked for and complained. He 
said the claim was taking too long and Gefion kept asking  for additional information  each 
time he responded. He said he didnt think he should provide any further information. Gefion 
said it had to ask for more  because the information hed provided was incomplete or 
contradicted previous information hed given.  It said it had concerns over whether Mr N 
owned the car because it had been bought  by his stepfather  and was registered as a private 
hire vehicle by his mother.
Mr N said the car was his. He said hed shown he used it for work and paid the tax and 
insurance. He said he made payments to his mother and stepfather through his wifes bank 
account. However, Gefion  said these  payments  didnt correlate with the monthly finance 
payments. Gefion also asked Mr N to provide his own bank statements and his wifes bank 
statements to show she hadnt  made  similar  payments to his mother and stepfather before 
they bought the car. 
As Mr N refused to provide any further  information Gefion reviewed the information  it had 
and turned down  Mr Ns claim. It said the information it had didnt show  that Mr N had an 
insurable interest in the car, so he wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr N didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to us. He thought  Gefion had taken 
too long to look into things and kept asking for irrelevant  information. He was also unhappy it 
had turned down  his claim. While we were looking into things Mr N provided  his own bank 
statements. Gefion reviewed these  but didnt think they showed Mr N had made any 
payments to his wife to transfer  to his mother and stepfather. 
Our investigator didnt  think Gefion  had caused delays and he thought the information  it had 
asked Mr N for was reasonable. He thought Gefion had acted reasonably  in turning down 
Mr Ns claim as he hadnt shown hed got an insurable interest the car. 
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ns policy say that Gefion can ask for any relevant 
information it needs in order for Mr N to prove  his loss. Insurable interest is a general  
principle of insurance so I think  its reasonable that Gefion would establish whether Mr N had 
Ref: DRN88579302an insurance interest in the car. Ive also looked to see if Gefions decision to turn down the 
claim is fair and reasonable, based  on the information it has. 
I can see Mr Ns raised  concerns about  the information from his broker  when  he bought his 
policy, but that would need to be raised  separately with the broker.  In this decision I can only 
consider what Gefion might, or might not, have  done  wrong. 
I can see that Mr N seems to be the main  user of the car and its him that taxes and insures  
it. However, thats not enough to show that hes financially responsible for it. 
The sales  invoice shows Mr Ns stepfather acquired the car. I understand he acquired it 
using a hire purchase  agreement and the finance is in his name. Mr Ns mother  was named 
as the registered keeper and Gefions  provided  documents to show  Mr Ns mother  registered 
the car as a private  hire vehicle. Gefions also provided information  from the licensing 
authority that says only the true owner  of the car can licence it. Gefion said the car was still 
registered in Mr Ns mothers name when he took out the policy. And changed into Mr Ns 
name afterwards.
Gefion said Mr N hasnt been able to show any correlating payments from his own account  
to his wifes. But I dont find it unusual for a husband and wife to share finances. So, I dont 
think thats enough to persuade me him and his wife arent making  payments  for the car.    
Mr Ns provided  bank  statements from his wifes  account showing payments to his mothers 
account. But, these  arent for the same  amount as the monthly  finance  payments. Gefion 
said Mr Ns wifes bank  statements were also redacted  and incomplete.  
So, I think its reasonable for Gefion to say these  were unlikely to have been payments  for 
the car, particularly as Mr N hasnt  provided previous bank statements to show these 
payments werent  already being made  before the car was acquired.
Gefion said it started  asking Mr N for documents  to support his claim in January 2019,  once 
the previous complaint hed brought to our service was resolved.  
From the emails Ive seen  between Mr N and Gefion I dont think that any of the requests for 
information Gefion  made  were unreasonable. And I think it explained to Mr N why it needed 
the information it asked for. Having considered the information Gefion  had available  and that 
Mr N refused to provide  further information, I think Gefions  decision to turn down his claim 
on the basis that he didnt have an insurable  interest in the car was reasonable. 
I appreciate the process took longer than Mr N would have liked.  But I dont think Gefion  
caused any unreasonable delays,  as there were a number of issues  that needed 
investigating before it was able to make a decision.  I can also see that there  were  times 
when Mr N didnt provide all the information  Gefion asked for which  meant it needed to send 
further requests.  
In summary,  Im satisfied  Gefion made  a reasonable decision to turn down Mr Ns claim on 
the basis of the information it had and that information it asked for wasnt  provided. I think 
the information Gefion asked for was reasonable and I dont think  it caused any 
unreasonable delays. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN88579303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8857930