K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that One Call Insurance Services Limited (One Call) continued to pursue 
him for a debt he says he did not owe. 
background
In 2019 Mr C took out a motorbike insurance policy. The policy is administered by One Call. 
Shortly after taking out the policy, Mr C received multiple emails  from One Call asking him to 
contact it. The emails  related to an outstanding  debt One Call said Mr C owed  despite 
Mr C having paid for his policy in full. The emails threatened debt recovery  action which  
could affect Mr Cs credit file. 
Mr C has said he was told to ignore the emails, but he still continued to receive them.  And 
when he tried to speak to One Call he couldnt pass its caller verification questions, so was 
unable to resolve the matter.
One Call has explained an internal  error led to Mr Cs details  being  attributed to a debt he 
didnt owe. However,  it did say that once it was aware of the problem  it rectified things. It 
apologised and offered him £20 in compensation. 
An investigator here has already looked  into the case, and said One Call should pay Mr C 
£200 in compensation, given the level of distress and inconvenience  it caused him to 
experience. Mr C accepted the findings, but One Call didnt respond   so the case has been 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In this case it doesnt appear  to be in 
dispute that One Call did something  wrong   its acknowledged an internal error caused 
Mr C to be contacted  about  a debt which he did not owe.  
Im satisfied One Call rectified  things  once it was aware an error had occurred. But as our 
investigator explained, this doesnt  negate  the distress and inconvenience  Mr C experienced 
because of One Calls error. One Call has apologised  and said it offered Mr C compensation 
of £20. But our investigator  thought Mr C should be awarded £200 to reflect the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Mr C was sent multiple emails threatening debt recovery action which could  affect his credit 
file. The issue went on for several  weeks and Mr C had to make a number of calls to 
different parties;  spending time speaking to his insurer, the DVLA and the Police to obtain  
enough information to show he wasnt related to the debt. This was all instructed by 
One Call, but Mr C shouldnt have had to go through these steps   so Im satisfied he was 
caused a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
 
So considering the impact  One Calls mistakes had on Mr C, I think £200 is a fair and 
reasonable award in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN82245822my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint, and require One Call Insurance  Services  
Limited to pay him £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
One Call Insurance  Services Limited  should do this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Cs 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this they should add 
interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the 
date they make payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
1 If One Call Insurance Services Limited considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr C how much its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr C a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8224582