K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains about the time it has taken Nationwide  Building  Society  to send her a call 
recording relating  to a complaint she made.
Ms T is helped in her complaint by a representative   but any reference I make  to Ms T in 
this decision refers to the consumer rather than the representative.
background
Ms T complained to Nationwide about  a disputed transaction made in 2014.  The  value of 
the transaction was just over £67,000.
Nationwide did not uphold that complaint.  As part of its findings, it relied upon a telephone 
call with Ms T in June 2014  where  it says she had told a Nationwide  representative that she 
had authorised the payment  but was disputing  the amount.
In November 2015, Nationwide said Ms T requested a copy  of this call and was advised to 
fill in a form and to make a payment  of £10  which was Nationwides process  at the time.  
Nationwide then said it heard nothing more  from Ms T until November 2018.  At this time,  it 
was able to send the call and confirm  that Ms T had listened to it.
Ms T complained about the time it had taken  to be sent the call  so when Nationwide did 
not uphold her complaint, she brought her complaint to this service.
She told us  specifically   that she was complaining  about  the length  of time it had taken for 
Nationwide to send  this call to her.  As  compensation  for this, she wanted  the amount of the 
disputed transaction  to be returned to her.
Our investigator did not think he could ask Nationwide to do anymore so Ms T asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it clear that this decision relates solely  to the complaint raised in Ms Ts 
complaint form to us  where she says she is complaining about the length of time taken to 
have this call sent to her. It is not a decision on the merits  of the disputed transaction  
complaint  that has been considered by this service  and a decision has already  been 
issued on that. I will not be revisiting that complaint.
Having considered the evidence, I arrive  at the same conclusion  as the investigator  and for 
very much the same reasons.
Nationwide acknowledges that Ms T first made a request for the call in November 2015 and 
that it was not sent until November 2018.   But in 2015, the process for requesting a call from 
Nationwide required the payment of £10 and a form to be filled in.  Ms T did not do that  
and cannot evidence that she did.  Our investigator  allowed her some time in order to check  
 but received nothing back.
Ref: DRN88188732Having not received the correct form, I can understand why Nationwide did nothing more 
until Ms T contacted it again in November 2018.
In the circumstances, I cant see that Nationwide has done anything wrong in how it has 
dealt with Ms Ts complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8818873