K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that as a result of TSB Bank plcs system wide issues in April 2018,  he was 
left without access to internet banking in December 2018 and January 2019 while he was 
abroad. This caused him to incur further  costs to return to the UK and aggravation while  
trying to resolve the issue. 
background
In April 2018 TSB upgraded its systems. It encountered significant  difficulties during this 
process, and a number  of customers  were affected  by the problems it experienced at this 
time. 
Mr H had a current account  with TSB, and was affected by these issues.  TSB looked into 
matters for him and acknowledged that between April 2018 and May 2018 he had been 
significantly inconvenienced.  It offered  him compensation of £500,  plus £55 for expenses  
and £12 for bank  charges he incurred. However, it didnt agree that it should compensate 
him for his flights back to the UK in January 2019 as it considered he hadnt  provided 
sufficient evidence of those costs or the issues he experienced at the time. 
Mr H didnt agree and referred his complaint to this service. In short, he said that in 
December 2018  he had difficulties accessing  his internet banking  and had no access  to 
money while he was in a foreign country.  He said he tried to sort the issue out but was 
unable to on the phone.  He said the only way was to fly back to the UK to visit a TSB branch 
in person. He explained  that as he was locked out of banking he had to buy a ticket using 
airmiles, and he had no access to cash.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint, but didnt consider TSB needed to do 
anymore. She thought  the evidence available indicated that transfers were being made to 
and from the account  and cash  was being withdrawn by him abroad   this showed  the 
account was being used  and maintained.  And she considered there was insufficient 
evidence to demonstrate that he had no access to his money and was forced to return to the 
UK.  
Before the matter was passed to me Mr H provided evidence of when he booked  the flights  
back to the UK, demonstrating that these  were booked on 17 January 2019. The investigator 
considered that whilst this showed when he booked his ticket  back  to the UK, she wasnt 
persuaded that it was necessary for him to return to the UK given that it appeared he had 
access to his account and his funds.  
Mr H didnt agree. He said he only came back because of the issues  he was experiencing 
with TSB, and thought it unfair  that he wouldnt be reimbursed the airfare. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, as I can see 
he feels very strongly he should  be reimbursed his flights back to the UK, but Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to ask TSB to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN82366582The key issue here is whether  it was reasonable for Mr H to decide, in January 2019,  to 
purchase a ticket back to the UK in order to sort out the issues he was experiencing with his 
online banking. 
I should say from the outset I dont dispute  that Mr H felt he needed  to come back  to the UK. 
But my role is to independently  look at the evidence available  taking  into account both his 
recollections of events, as well as the documentary evidence. 
The evidence shows that he raised  some of the issues  he was experiencing with his online 
banking in December  2018 prior to flying abroad. At this time his internet banking was 
working, but he was receiving certain error messages when trying to make payments. 
Once abroad, on 10 January 2019,  I can see he contacted TSB and complained  about  the 
same issue   but now explained  that he had been  locked  out of his account and had no 
access to his money. He also complained that his security information had been erased. In 
his emails to the investigator Mr H has outlined in great detail the inconvenience  he was put 
through and the fact that he had no access to his bank for approximately four weeks  over 
this period, from before Christmas until he visited his bank on 20 January 2019. 
But in looking through Mr Hs current account statement, its clear to me that he had some 
access to his account  whether that was through online banking or telephone banking.  
Before Christmas, I can see there were regular  transfers between his accounts, or faster 
payments. There were payments to hotels  he was staying at and cash withdrawals in the 
country he was in.  
And in January 2019 the statements  look very similar. He made a cash  withdrawal from the 
cash machine at the hotel he was staying at on 11 January 2019, and transferred money 
from one account  to another on 14 January 2019.  He also made a further debit card 
payment on the same  day to the hotel  he was staying at. In fact I can see that between 11 
January and 18 January 2019 when  he caught  his flight back  to the UK, he made  a number 
of transfers from his savings account  to his current account, made a number of payments  
(either to cards, or to the hotel he was saying at) and withdrew cash. 
Im not disputing Mr Hs suggestions  that he was unable to bank online as he normally 
would, or that in order to manage  his account he needed to repeatedly  call TSB  although 
Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence about  the number and length of these calls. 
Mr H has at times indicated that telephone banking wasnt working for him  but I think his 
account statements  from that period suggest  that he was at least able to manage his affairs  
and get access  to his account by banking in that way. 
So the key question is whether, in all the circumstances of Mr Hs case, it was reasonable for 
him to fly all the way back to the UK to sort out his internet banking,  when it was clear that 
he was able to carry out most of his banking  transactions despite the issues  he says he was 
experiencing. 
Having considered this issue carefully, and taken into account  Mr Hs recollections  as well as 
the documentary  evidence, Im not persuaded that was a reasonable step for him to take. In 
my view, the evidence  indicates that Mr H had sufficient access  to his account during this 
period to withdraw cash and make payments as required   and to transfer money  between  
his various accounts  to ensure he had sufficient funds to cover  any regular debits which  
Ref: DRN82366583were coming out of his account. Given he was already due back to the UK in April or May 
2019, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for him to fly back to the UK in order  to resolve 
an issue which was not impeding access to his current account  even if I did accept that 
internet banking wasnt working  as smoothly as he wouldve liked.
Given these circumstances, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
require TSB to reimburse his flights back to the UK. And whilst I appreciate  why Mr H may 
have thought it necessary to come back to the UK early, Im not satisfied this was due to 
something TSB did or didnt do. 
my final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank plc doesnt  need to do anything more  to put things right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 May 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8236658