K821x#15complaint
Mr J says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001 with a store  card that Mr J took out in store.  
The policy was added  to his account at the same time.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Js complaint because he thought  he wasnt eligible  to take out the PPI 
because he was a full-time student at the time.  FICL didnt  agree, it said the application form 
showed that Mr J ticked  the box to say he was in full-time employment and wanted PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I uphold Mr Js complaint largely for the same 
reasons as given  by our adjudicator.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case.
Ive looked at the credit agreement completed  in the store  to take out the card.  Mr J has selected 
the box to take PPI and signed to say he wants it. Under the section headed Employment details it 
asked whether the customer or their partner was in permanent  paid employment.  There  was a 
box to tick either yes or no; neither of these boxes were selected. Underneath that, it asks Your 
status the Full time box was selected.  There was a separate box to select  for student. This was 
left blank. The customer was then asked to give details of their employment; how long theyd  
worked for their employer  and their employers name and address. This was also left blank.
I cant see that FICL clarified  with Mr J that he was eligible for PPI when it processed his 
paperwork. I think this wouldve  been  reasonable to do given that a number of the boxes hadnt 
been properly  completed.  
Mr Js told us that he was in full-time education  at the time he took out the PPI and wasnt  working. 
Hes told us the course he was doing  and his place of study, but says he can no longer provide 
evidence that he was a student  as this was many  years ago. 
Given what Mr Js said about his circumstances,  I think it more  likely that he was ineligible  to take 
out the PPI because he was a full-time student. I think had FICL clarified Mr Js position he 
wouldnt have gone on to take out the PPI. I say this because  I think it more  likely he wouldnt have 
been able to claim for accident, sickness and unemployment. So, I think Mr J has lost out because  
of what FICL did wrong. I don think he wouldve bought the PPI if FICL had given him clearer 
information about the benefits and eligibility criteria.
what the business should  do to put things right
FICL should put Mr J in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr J would  have  owed  when he closed his store card account 
if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN84689672So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest  added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr J owed when he closed his account 
and what he would have  owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr J would have owed when 
he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr J would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr J paid 
more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the extra Mr J 
paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr J wouldve owed FICL 
something on his store  card.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr J what its done to work  out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr J that relates to this PPI sale, that 
sum can be deducted by FICL from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Financial  Insurance Company Limited to pay 
compensation to Mr J in line with the instructions set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject 
my decision  before 3 February 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8468967