K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial 
Services that he signed in October 2017.  He says that the heated  drivers seat keeps turning 
on and that hes returned the car to the dealer for repairs and contacted  the manufacturers 
UK representative about the fault but it continues to be an issue.  
He complained to BMW Financial Services which said that it was a minor fault and that the 
manufacturers warranty had served  its purpose  by covering any repairs  so it wouldnt be in 
a position to offer any goodwill payment. Mr R wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. He says that he now wants to reject the car.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Mr R 
had been supplied with a car of unsatisfactory quality and that the fairest  resolution was for 
him to be allowed to reject it. So he recommended that BMW Financial Services  should end 
the agreement, arrange  to collect the car, refund Mr Rs deposit (with  interest),  refund 5% of 
all his payments for his impaired use, pay him £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused and ensure that no adverse information about the agreement is recorded  on his 
credit file.
BMW Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It 
disagrees that there are grounds to reject the car for a heated seat issue and it says that 
Mr R contacted it just over a year into ownership  with this issue. It says that its a minor fault 
and, although  it hasnt been able to resolve the issue yet, a heated  seat intermittently turning 
on isnt grounds for rejection. And it disputes  the 5% rental refund for impaired usage  as its 
an intermittent issue and doesnt impact his usage of the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible  for ensuring  that it was 
of satisfactory quality. Whether  or not it was will depend  on a number of factors, including  
the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied 
to Mr R was a new car with a price of £52,023  and I consider that it was reasonable for him 
to expect that it would  be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory quality also covers 
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr R in October  2017 and he says that hes had issues  with the 
electric heated drivers  seat turning on since then. He says that he returned the car to the 
dealer in December 2017  but the fault couldnt be replicated. But Mr R has provided videos 
and photos showing  the fault happening. He then contacted the manufacturers UK 
representative in March 2018 but didnt receive any response from it so he contacted  it again  
in October 2018  and he complained the BMW Financial  Services  in November 2018.  
Ref: DRN88852202A further  attempt to repair the fault was then made  but Mr R says that the fault continues  
and he wants to reject the car.
I consider that Mr R has provided enough evidence to show that theres a fault with the car. 
Attempts to repair  the fault have been made  but havent been successful. And Mr R has 
involved the dealer,  the manufacturers UK representative and BMW  Financial Services  but 
hasnt been offered a suitable solution to the fault.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that theres  a fault with the drivers electric heated seat 
and that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied  to Mr R because of that 
fault. I dont consider it to be acceptable  for a new car of this price  to be supplied with such 
an issue. The fault hasnt  been rectified and BMW Financial  Services has said that it doesnt 
consider that Mr R is entitled  to any compensation. So in these circumstances I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Mr R to be allowed to reject the car. 
I consider that BMW Financial Services should end the hire purchase agreement  and 
arrange to collect  the car from Mr R. It says that Mr R paid a £10,000  deposit  for the car 
which compromised  a part exchange of £4,000 and a customer  deposit of £6,000. I consider 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for BMW Financial Services  to refund the £10,000  
deposit to Mr R, with interest.  
BMW Financial Services says that Mr R has made  all of the payments for the car and that it 
hasnt recoded any adverse information about the agreement on his credit  file. But his use 
and enjoyment of the car will have been  affected  by the fault with the car. I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable for it to also refund to Mr R 5% of the monthly payments that 
hes made for the car for his loss of use and enjoyment of it. It can keep the balance of the 
monthly payments  that hes made for the car as payment for the use that hes had from it.
These events will have  caused distress and inconvenience to Mr R. And I find that it would 
be fair and reasonable for it to also pay him £200  to compensate him for that distress and 
inconvenience. I consider that it should  also remove any information about the agreement  
from Mr Rs credit file.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. And I order  BMW  Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mr R  
both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr R the deposit  of £10,000  that he paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Refund to Mr R 5% of the monthly  payments that hes made  under the agreement.
5.Pay £200 to Mr R to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
6.Remove any information about the agreement from Mr Rs credit file.
Ref: DRN88852203HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 2 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr R a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885220