K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that the renewal invitation  sent to him by Automobile  Association 
Insurance Services Limited  (AA) for the renewal of his membership and breakdown repair  
cover had misleading information  which  he believed  contravened the guidelines set down by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA).  
background
Mr K was dissatisfied that his renewal invitation  for 2019, showed he had paid £381.90,  
whereas he had actually only paid £288.30.  When he raised  this with the AA, it said it had 
given him a goodwill discount after Mr K had contacted it given he hadnt received his 
documents. It said its system doesnt  recognise  such goodwill gestures.
Mr K remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the view 
that the AA hadnt mislead Mr K and so she didnt recommend  the complaint should be 
upheld.
Mr K disagreed and then also raised  the issue that the AA kept sending  him documents to 
the wrong address. As that hadnt  been raised  by Mr K to the AA before he brought  his 
complaint to us and wasnt listed  in the complaint form Mr K completed, under our rules we 
must permit the AA to deal with that issue separately. Therefore I wont  be dealing with any 
issues concerning  any wrong address in this decision.
As Mr K didnt agree  with the investigators  view,  his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why. 
I understand Mr Ks cover renewed  automatically  as per his initial  instructions. The AA sent 
out this renewal invitation on 10 February 2018. And it then apparently  took the quoted 
amount of £381.90  from Mr Ks account  on the renewal date. Then Mr K contacted  it on 10 
April 2018 saying he hadnt received his new documents  and why had it taken this sum from 
his account.
Following discussions,  the AA refunded  Mr K the £381.90 and instead took the sum of 
£288.30 from his account. This sum having been  agreed between the adviser  and Mr K as 
Mr K was benefitting from some type of premium  freeze. The AA explained that since the 
first sum was initially  paid,  its system would only pick up that sum in the renewal documents 
for 2019 and quote that, as having been paid by Mr K for 2018.  It said its system didnt 
recognise such goodwill  discounts, which Mr K actually benefitted from, for that year. 
So from this I consider there was no intention of the AA trying  to mislead Mr K. This is a 
simple system issue, which was subsequently clarified adequately by the AA. Had it been 
the case that Mr K contacted the AA before his actual renewal date and obtained this 
discount then,  the system would have picked  it up as the higher figure wouldnt have then 
shown on the system  to have been be paid for the policy year.  It appears Mr K obtained 
similar discounts for previous years  too.
Ref: DRN89305372Its not in my remit or the remit of this service to tell any business how to manage  its internal 
systems. This service  doesnt tell businesses how to run their businesses.  All that is a matter 
for the regulator  the FCA. My role is simply to assess whether something went wrong  which 
caused a detriment to Mr K and whether the AA has put things right.  Here  the AA has 
explained what happened and there has been no detriment to Mr K.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8930537