K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Novaloans Ltd (trading as Cash4unow)  didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks and shouldnt have agreed to lend him 3 loans as he couldnt pay them  
back.
background
Mr V took out 6 loans between February  2017 and December 2017. A summary of his 
borrowing is as follows; 
Loan NumberBorrowing 
DateInstalments Loan Amount Date repaid
1 18/04/2017 3 300 13/06/2017
2 23/06/2017 3 480 05/07/2017
3 03/01/2018 4 360 outstanding
Novaloans says it took into consideration Mr Vs monthly income,  his expenditure and 
carried out credit searches when it assessed his loan applications. It says Mr V had enough 
disposable income and could afford the loans.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said Novaloans hadnt carried  out 
sufficient checks. He felt if Novaloans had carried out proportionate checks they would have 
shown Mr V wouldnt have been able to afford  them. Our adjudicator  also made  suggestions 
for Novaloans to put things right regarding these  3 loans.
Novaloans disagree  with our adjudicator. So as both parties  still dont agree, this complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  Novaloans  lent to 
Mr V. The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist  sourcebook for 
credit related  regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance  specific to consumer 
credit providers, such as Novaloans. Prior to that, the OFTs  Irresponsible  Lending  Guidance  
(ILG) set out the relevant guidance.
It is important  to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent  and scope and the types  and sources of 
information to use needed to be enough  to be able to reasonably  assess  the sustainability  
of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other  words the assessment  needs  to be consumer-focussed.  It is not an assessment of 
the risk to the lender  of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer of incurring 
Ref: DRN80659172financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequence  as a result of the 
decision to lend.
As set out in the guidance, the risk to the consumer  directly relates to the particulars of the 
lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders assessment of 
creditworthiness would  likely need to be flexible. That is to say, what is sufficient for one 
consumer might not be for another, or indeed  what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same  consumer in other circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment  of creditworthiness  to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect  a lender to require more  assurance, the greater the 
potential risk to the consumer of not being  able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Novaloans should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include, 
but are not limited  to:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Novaloans told us it asked for details of Mr Vs income and expenses. It also carried  out a 
credit search when it agreed to lend loan 1 in April 2017. Bearing  in mind this was Mr Vs 
first request  for credit  with Novaloans  and taking into account  the loan repayment  in relation 
to Mr Vs declared income; the checks - at first glance - might  have appeared proportionate.
However, the credit checks  Novaloans  carried out showed them that Mr V had 11 short  term 
loans in the previous six months. From  this 1 new short  term lending  account had opened in 
the previous month. But I think when it saw from the information it had in front of it, that Mr V 
had 10 active accounts, 11 short term accounts  in the previous six months  and had also 
defaulted on an account, I think this should have prompted it to ask Mr V for further 
information.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  for Novaloans to carry out further checks about 
Mr Vs short  term lending  at that time. Especially as it knew he had taken out 11 short term 
loans in the previous six months. This is, I think,  to make sure Mr V was in position  to make 
the repayment for loan 1 sustainably. So I need  to think  about what  it wouldve seen if it had 
carried out these  proportionate checks. 
Our service holds information  about Mr Vs short  term lending  at that time, and I can see that 
Novaloans wouldve found  out that Mr V was repaying a significant amount to four short term 
lenders at the time he applied for the loan. 
I think that Novaloans  wouldve  found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think it wouldve seen Mr V wouldnt have  been able repay  loan 1 in a 
Ref: DRN80659173sustainable way. So I think that Novaloans shouldnt have given loan 1 and all loans granted  
after this point to Mr V and I think he lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Vs 
complaint.
putting things right
I dont think Novaloans should have agreed to give Mr V loans 1-3. So Novaloans should;
Refund any interest and charges applied to the three loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Vs credit  file in relation to the three 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Novaloans to take off tax from this interest. Novaloans  
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
It is my understanding that Mr V still owes Novaloans some of the principal balance he 
borrowed on his final loan (loan 3). Novaloans may deduct this from the compensation that is 
due to him. But, to be clear, that outstanding balance should  be recalculated to remove any 
interest and charges, taking account of any repayments Mr V has made on that loan as 
though they were applied  against the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Vs complaint and direct Novaloans Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8065917