K822xcomplaint
Ms A complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background 
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
Ms A applied for the policy at a meeting with Lloyds. If Ms A had made  a successful claim on 
the policy, it would have covered her monthly mortgage payments and paid an additional £3 
for every £1,000  of Ms As initial mortgage  each  month. This would have continued for up to 
12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Among other  issues that shes  raised, Ms A believes the policy  was unsuitable for her, as 
she was self-employed.  Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Ms A 
disagreed with the adjudicators view,  so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms A 
and to Lloyds  on 1 February  2019. I summarise my findings:
Lloyds recommended the policy  to Ms A. This means that it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable  for her.
Ms As explained that she did freelance work on a self-employed  basis  when she took 
out the policy. She says she never  worked for just one client, and that her work was 
erratic. At the point  when she took out the mortgage and PPI, shed started to re-train  
with a view to taking  on self-employed  work  in a different field. I could  see from Lloyds 
notes that she mentioned  this to the adviser during the meeting. Ms A started  earning  
from her new area of business in 2003. But she continued to do some of her original  type 
of work until 2008 or 2009.
To make a successful  claim  for unemployment  under the PPI policy,  Ms A would have 
had to be unemployed for 60 consecutive days.  And part of the definition in the policy 
document of Unemployment or Unemployed  was that the policyholder  was not 
following any gainful occupation.
Ms As provided copies of her financial records which show that when she took out the 
policy, and for many  years  after,  she was carrying out work for a range of clients. She 
invoiced her clients  for the work. Her earnings  in many months were made up of several  
jobs for different clients. The amounts of the invoices varied considerably.  There were 
months in which Ms As income  dropped significantly. But I was satisfied, from the 
records that Ms As provided,  that her working pattern made it unlikely that shed ever 
have had no work at all. So I thought it was unlikely  that it could ever have  been  said that 
she wasnt following  any gainful  occupation.  I thought it was still less likely that shed  
have had no work from any of her numerous clients  for more than 60 consecutive  days. 
And the fact that she was already planning  to take on a new area of work in addition  to 
her existing business strengthened my view further.
Ref: DRN89863332When it sold her the PPI, Lloyds knew that Ms A was self-employed.  It knew what her 
line of work was. And it knew that she was planning to start work in another  field too. 
Taking everything into account,  I thought  that it should have been apparent to Lloyds that 
Ms As employment circumstances were likely to mean that it would be difficult  or 
impossible for her to make a successful claim for unemployment under the terms of the 
policy. 
So I didnt think the policy  was suitable for Ms A, and I didnt think  Lloyds should have 
recommended it to her. I acknowledged that Ms A might  still have been able to make  a 
successful claim  for accident  or sickness. But I wasnt convinced shed have taken the 
policy if shed realised  that it was unlikely that shed be able to benefit from one of the 
main elements of the cover.
So based on the information  Id seen so far, I thought it was fair and reasonable to 
uphold Ms As complaint. And that meant I didnt need to deal with the other issues  shes  
raised about the sale.
I noted that after the adjudicator issued her view, Lloyds had written  to Ms A, explaining 
that it had noticed  that her PPI cover  hadnt been reduced after she made a capital 
repayment to her mortgage. It calculated that if the premium had been  reduced as it 
should have been,  Ms A would have  paid £937.50 less in premiums than she did. It sent 
her a cheque for that amount plus interest  at 8%.
further submissions
Ms As told us that shes  happy  with my provisional decision, and has nothing  further to add. 
Lloyds has told us that its prepared to make  an offer to Ms A in line with what I said it should 
do. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms As case.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings  I reached in my 
provisional decision.
putting things right
Lloyds should  put Ms A in the position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt already been, and Lloyds should:
Pay Ms A the amount  she paid each  month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Ms A made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Lloyds  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Ref: DRN89863333 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Ms A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Lloyds may deduct  from the amount in the first bullet point, the total premiums  that it has 
already refunded to Ms A in respect of (i) commission and profit  share, and (ii) the over-
payment of premiums after Ms As capital  repayment, as referred to above.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should  put things right by doing 
what Ive set out above, as its agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8986333