K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr O say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs and Mr O say they bought the PPI in 1977.  However, this doesnt appear to be quite 
right; we now know they actually bought the PPI policy in 1993 at the same time as taking 
out a further advance on their existing joint-mortgage.  
They applied for the PPI policy in a branch and it provided cover for accident, sickness, and 
unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay up to £100 a 
month towards Mrs and Mr Os mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost £6.90 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs and Mr O were employed as a nurse and teacher respectively. As such, I 
agree they would have probably been entitled  to 6 months full sick-pay  with their jobs and 
Ive taken this into consideration. We asked about their health at the time of the PPI sale and 
one of them was said to have undergone a knee procedure in the early 1970s. Ive therefore 
also taken account  of this information.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account opened in 1977 and 
closed 2007. Mrs and Mr Os representative has made lengthy  and substantial  
representations on their behalf.  I will not restate  them all here, but I have  read and 
considered them all very carefully. In summary, Mrs and Mr Os representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs and Mr O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs and Mr 
Os representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy was said to exclude  or limit claims for back  pain and stress, which are 
some of the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced 
the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely one could make a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mrs and Mr O about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs and Mr O 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of ever making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN88167152The information Mrs and Mr O received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs and Mr O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint points, I have read and 
considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to 
decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Os. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
This PPI sale took place  in 1993  before the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.  The  ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
Ref: DRN88167153other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs and Mr Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs and Mr O with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for Mrs and Mr O, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mrs and Mr O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs and 
Mr O, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mrs and Mr O 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs and Mr O 
and Halifax, Ive decided  not to uphold  this complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs and Mr O know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional  and I think  theres clear enough 
evidence about  this. We know, for example,  that Mrs and Mr O operated  their joint-mortgage 
Ref: DRN88167154without PPI between  1977 and 1993. I think this therefore indicates that they would have 
known that having a mortgage didnt also require you to buy PPI with it.
When they came to borrow more money  in 1993, they made a specific  and separate  
application for PPI on a form entitled  Mortgage Payments Protector Application . In my 
view, this form clearly demonstrated what the cover was for and what  the main benefits  
were. It set out the monthly premium  cost and included a summary of the main limitations of 
the cover. Both Mrs and Mr O signed  this application  form and they would also have  needed 
to authorise the monthly premiums to leave their bank account.
Taking everything into account,  I think its clear that Mrs and Mr O knew  the policy  was 
optional and they each agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax concedes this was an advised  sale and this corresponds  with my experience  of these 
types of mortgage  PPI sales. This means Halifax had to advise Mrs and Mr O with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I think Halifax took reasonable steps  Halifax took to establish whether the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs and Mr O. It seems Mrs and Mr O cant  remember clearly 
what happened and there is no detailed record of what the adviser discussed in relation to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting. 
But from the paperwork Ive seen, the adviser probably had some limited  information about 
Mrs and Mr Os financial circumstances, although there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mrs and Mr O would have been caught by all the 
significant exclusions and limitations, which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  Nevertheless,  I see many  of the main limitations and exclusions were indeed 
outlined on the form they both signed.  But there  is nothing to confirm for sure that Halifax  
considered, in more  detail, whether  Mrs and Mr O had any pre-existing medical conditions 
as outlined in the full policy document / rules.
Overall, I can see Halifax did probably  highlight that the cover came with certain  limitations 
and exclusions,  but on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it could 
have done to fully determine whether the policy was completely suitable for Mrs and Mr O in 
every respect. 
However, while Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mrs and Mr O in every  respect,  I do think its much  more likely that the policy  
was ultimately suitable for them. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs and Mr O fully met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mrs and Mr O had a need  for the policy. Their mortgage, in my view, would have 
been a significant and long-term  outlay and secured  against their home. The 
evidence strongly points to them wanting to protect their additional  borrowing and 
doing so freely. And its likely that their ability to continue to meet  all their mortgage 
Ref: DRN88167155repayments would have been  put under some strain if they were not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even allowing for the job-related benefits they had.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs and Mr O;
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs and Mr O. 
There was nothing  about Mrs and Mr Os employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Any successful claim would have been in 
addition to other means they had  through their jobs for instance. As far as existing 
medical conditions  are concerned, the medical  procedure mentioned, from 1972, pre-
dates the PPI sale by some 21 years,  so isnt relevant, in my view as it wouldnt 
affect their ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of up to 24 months for each 
claim for disability (or 12 for unemployment),  it still provided useful  cover  given Mrs 
and Mr Os circumstances. This outlasted the cover  they had through their jobs.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mrs and Mr O be disabled or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  
for a maximum of 24 / 12 months  for each  claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: 
Mrs and Mr Os circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the mortgage 
repayments relating  to their home  and the potential consequences should Mrs and 
Mr O be unable to make  the repayments.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mrs and Mr O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs and Mr O were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs and Mr O were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mrs and Mr O 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. The monthly  premium was also clearly shown on the 
application they both signed.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  Im satisfied 
the policy was a suitable recommendation  for Mrs and Mr O. After such  a long time, I cannot 
be certain, of course, that Halifax told them everything about the policy.  However, the 
disclosure of information in this case  does  look to be quite good, in my experience. Im 
satisfied therefore  that Mrs and Mr O had enough  information to make  an informed decision 
about whether  to follow Halifaxs recommendation and take the cover out.
Ive considered with care whether / how my findings  interact with the FCAs list of significant 
failings in its guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. Mrs and Mr 
Os representative has raised a number of general points in regards to the requirements on a 
business when  providing information  in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI 
complaints, like Mrs and Mr Os. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN88167156-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs and Mr Os representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs and Mr O about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance to them.  
However, Im not persuaded by Mrs and Mr Os representatives  views on this. The duty of 
utmost good  faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract  to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mrs and Mr O have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
what effect, if any, did Halifaxs shortcomings have on Mrs and Mr O? To what extent 
did Mrs and Mr O suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  may not have  done all it should have done  when  it sold this policy to 
Mrs and Mr O. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mrs and Mr O suffered any loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mrs and Mr O would have  still taken out the policy,  had Halifax  done  
things any differently. 
While I cant be certain  Halifax  took all the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs and Mr O, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs and Mr O suffered any loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
differently, Mrs and Mr O would have acted differently: would they have  still taken out the 
policy?
Mrs and Mr O say they wouldnt  have.  And they believe, I think, that I should  presume  this to 
be the case given  the potential failings  identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this very carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return, and the potential  consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should  
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs and Mr O had a specific interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their additional mortgage payments in the 
event they were unable to work  because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. In my view,  that they wanted to be protected against 
something unforeseen occurring is very clear.  And as I explained  earlier,  Im satisfied from 
Ref: DRN88167157the evidence about Mrs and Mr Os circumstances at the time of the sale,  that the policy  was 
not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs and Mr O were given about  the cost was 
most probably clear  enough in my view. This is based on my reading of the application form 
they filled out and the details it contained  about  the policy they were both agreeing  to buy.
Nevertheless, its possible their decision was based  on somewhat incomplete information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. For example, 
possibly the most significant differences may have been the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury, for 
which the insured  received advice, treatment  or counselling from any doctor  during 
the thirty-six months preceding the commencement date  although this was 
signposted on the form they signed;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds  this too was mentioned on the form;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs and 
Mr O werent permanent  employees.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs and Mr O be 
unable to do their own jobs, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 (12 for unemployment) months, rather  
than the remaining term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the detailed limitations or exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs and Mr O pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided  not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different 
circumstances from Mrs and Mr O from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs and Mr Os circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable.  They were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mrs 
and Mr O wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs and Mr O didnt 
have any pre-existing medical conditions (as defined  by the policy rules) and were in 
permanent employment.  
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs and Mr 
O might  reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mrs and Mr O from taking out the policy, Mrs and Mr O, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mrs and Mr O had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
Ref: DRN88167158possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mrs and Mr O were unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able to 
take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited. The policy  also allowed 
for multiple  claims  to be made, it could help reduce  their outgoings  at a difficult  and uncertain 
time.
All these  issues were,  at a minimum, ether  mentioned or implied on the form they signed. 
So, having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not Mrs and Mr O would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help manage the consequences if Mrs and Mr O were  made redundant, 
or unable  to work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it very highly 
likely that Mrs and Mr O would have taken  out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mrs and Mr Os representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
potential flaws in the sales process. In some circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should  be 
presumed Mrs and Mr O would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is firmly 
rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs 
and Mr Os circumstances as detailed  above,  I consider it reasonable  to conclude the 
position Mrs and Mr O found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  
they would  have been in had any breach or significant (which I dont consider them to be) 
failings not occurred. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs and Mr O in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  That is because, while I accept it is possible that they would 
not have taken out the policy, I am completely  satisfied, given the strong evidence in this 
case, that of the two possibilities, its much more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given more information about the policy they applied  to buy. 
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mrs and Mr O compensation, as that would put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs and Mr O think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
Ref: DRN88167159failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mrs and Mr O, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet some of the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1993  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs and Mr Os representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs and Mr O and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs and Mr O in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8816715