K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society  Limited unfairly declined his 
claim for benefit under his life and critical illness policy. 
background
Mr M took out a life and critical illness policy through a broker, who Ill call B, in July 2013. 
The policy was provided by Scottish Friendly  and was designed  to provide a lump sum 
benefit in the event  Mr M died or was diagnosed  with a listed  critical illness  during the policy  
term.  
In September  2018 Mr M made a claim under the policy. Hed sadly been diagnosed with 
HIV in 2017.
The policy provided  cover  for HIV infection  in specific circumstances. The policy  terms and 
conditions set out what is and isnt covered: 
Infection by Human  Immunodeficiency Virus resulting  from:
A blood transfusion given as part of medical treatment;
A physical assault; or
An incident happening  during the course  of performing normal duties of employment 

For this definition, the following is not covered:
HIV infection resulting from any other means,  including sexual activity or drug 
abuse.
To assess the claim,  Scottish  Friendly requested information from Mr Ms treating specialist. 
Having considered this evidence it declined  the claim. It said the evidence didnt support that 
Mr M had contracted  the infection in circumstances covered by the terms and conditions  of 
the policy. 
Mr M complained about Scottish Friendlys decision. He referred to information  hed found  
on Bs website that suggested HIV would  be covered in all circumstances. He said he 
thought this was misleading and so his claim should  be reconsidered. He also explained  the 
impact Scottish Friendlys decision to decline the claim  had had on him. 
Scottish Friendly reconsidered the case but maintained that Mr Ms claim didnt meet  the 
policy definition, so it wouldnt  pay the claim.  In response to Mr Ms concerns about  the 
information on Bs website, Scottish  Friendly explained that this related to applying  for cover 
and wasnt guidance  on how to make a claim or the circumstances under which a claim 
would be accepted. 
Mr M complained to our service. Our investigator  considered the complaint but didnt uphold 
it. He considered Scottish Friendly was entitled to decline the claim as the evidence didnt 
show Mr M met the relevant policy definition. He acknowledged the difficult  situation Mr M 
was in but explained it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable to ask  Scottish Friendly  to accept a 
Ref: DRN83903942claim if it didnt  meet  the policy  definition. He explained that Mr Ms concerns  about  the 
information hed found online would have to be considered as a separate matter against  B. 
Mr M disagreed. He said hed been misled by information hed found online.  He said it didnt 
suggest that his claim would be subject to other terms  and conditions. He also said he was 
in a vulnerable  position,  both mentally and financially, and so felt his claim should be paid. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case has been passed to me to reach a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint for much the same reasons as the investigator.  I realise this will come as a serious 
disappointment to Mr M. So Id like to explain how Ive reached  my decision.  
As with all contracts of insurance, the policy terms and conditions  set out what  an insurer will 
and wont pay for. Scottish Friendly has provided us with evidence to show that it sent Mr M 
the policy terms and conditions when he took the policy out. 
Im satisfied the policy terms and conditions, as set out above, are clear  about the situations 
in which  a claim for HIV infection will and wont be accepted. 
From the available medical  evidence, Im persuaded Mr M didnt meet the policy  definition. 
His treating specialist has described  the circumstances that led to Mr Ms diagnosis.  This 
indicates that Mr M didnt  contract the infection in any of the circumstances covered by the 
policy  i.e. a blood  transfusion, a physical assault; or in the course  of his employment. HIV 
contracted in any other way is expressly excluded from benefit. 
In the circumstances, I consider Scottish Friendly  fairly  and reasonably declined the claim. 
I know Mr M has found it difficult to come to terms with the fact that the policy definition 
requires more than a definite diagnosis  of HIV for a claim to be paid. But Im satisfied 
Scottish Friendlys definition is consistent with the relevant industry guidance at the time (the 
ABI Statement of Best Practice for Critical Illness Cover 2006). So I cant say the definition  
was inherently unfair or more restrictive than other  cover available  on the market. 
I understand Mr M read some information  online that led him to believe his claim would be 
accepted. I can imagine it must have been  really  disappointing to later find out that his claim 
hadnt been accepted.  But as our investigator  has explained, Scottish Friendly is not 
responsible for the information published  on Bs website. So any complaint about  this will 
need to be directed to B. 
But even if the information online was misleading, that wouldnt mean that the claim would 
have to be accepted. Ultimately  Scottish  Friendly is entitled to assess  claims based on the 
terms and conditions. And in this case Im satisfied its done this.  
I appreciate Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision, but I cant  say Scottish Friendly  
has been unfair or unreasonable in refusing to pay his claim under the policy.  So, I wont  be 
asking it to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN83903943my final decision
For the reasons  outlines above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8390394