K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is unhappy DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) didnt agree to 
fund a claim she made on her legal  expenses policy in July 2018. 
background
Mrs H had legal expenses  cover  underwritten by DAS from August 1996  until the end of 
March 2006. Her employment ended around  December  2005 and she brought  claims of 
victimisation / discrimination and unfair  dismissal  against her employer. Its unclear what 
contact Mrs H had with DAS at that time;  it says she didnt tell it about the claim  but a 
previous decision  from our service indicated  it provided limited  legal assistance. Mrs H says 
it refused to accept her claim.  
Mrs H made  a subsequent claim for legal expenses funding under a policy she held with a 
different insurer. That related  to a decision by her regulatory body to strike her off its register 
in October 2009  and a new Employment Tribunal (ET) claim she made in 2010.  Another 
ombudsman considered whether this claim was part of an ongoing dispute which arose 
before that policy was taken out in 2006 or was separate from it. She decided it was a new 
event and should be considered by the new insurer.  
Since then matters have  progressed  and Mrs H has continued to pursue  legal action against  
her regulatory body along with ET claims against  her former employer. In July last year she 
sought funding  from DAS to make  an application to the High Court to set aside a decision to 
dismiss a stayed ET claim, the strike  off decision and a General Civil Restraining Order.  
DAS said the date of occurrence for this claim was prior to 2005 but it hadnt been notified of 
it until 2018. And the policy  terms said legal action shouldnt be taken without its agreement.  
In addition it hadnt had any opportunity to assess the prospects of success of the claim or 
had any control over the subsequent proceedings. So it considered  its position  had been 
prejudiced and it wouldnt provide funding.  It also said the claim Mrs H was now attempting 
to bring was equivalent to judicial  review  proceedings  which  the policy  didnt cover.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Mrs Hs claim would be equivalent to judicial review 
proceedings but did accept DASs position had been prejudiced. So he thought  it had fairly 
turned down her claim. 
I set out my initial thoughts to both parties earlier this month. I said based on what wed said 
in previous decisions it did appear  Mrs H had some  contact with DAS following the ending  of 
her employment in 2005. But given  she didnt appear to have been in touch with it since then 
I thought its position had been prejudiced given it had no control or input into what then 
happened for around ten years. 
In any case I didnt  feel the matters Mrs H was now seeking to claim for on her DAS policy 
had taken place  during  her time on cover  with it. Wed previously concluded the issues 
raised with us in past complaints didnt relate  back to her original dispute  with her employer 
but stemmed from the decision of her regulatory body to strike her off the register  in October  
2009 and her ongoing concerns about  victimisation  and harassment by her former employer 
following that. And it appeared to be events  arising from those issues  she was now seeking 
cover for in her most recent claim to DAS. 
Ref: DRN86848412DAS rechecked an old complaint database  and located a claim Mrs H had made to it in 
2010. It said this had been  turned down  because another insurer had taken  responsibility  for 
claims that were made after August 2006  which was the case  here.  
Mrs H provided  further background to what had happened. She said she contacted  DAS 
about the claims she made in 2004/5 but it never provided her with any assistance in relation 
to these. She said if it had done  so then her subsequent claim might  not have been  
necessary. 
She didnt  agree DASs position  had been  prejudiced. And she said the events  giving rise to 
her current  claim  were  the unlawful discrimination and victimisation that occurred during her 
employment (which was when she had cover  through DAS). Mrs H also raised concerns 
about the information that had been provided  in relation to previous complaints she made to 
us and suggested these should be revisited.  So I need to reach  a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs H is unhappy she wasnt provided  with assistance by DAS for claims she 
made in 2004/5. But the complaint shes made  to us isnt about  that; its about  the decision 
DAS reached on the claim she made in July 2018. If Mrs H wants  to pursue concerns about 
not being provided with assistance in 2005  that will need to form part of a separate  complaint 
to DAS (although  Im not clear what, if any, information will now be available in relation to 
that). 
Mrs H has also made  comments on the outcome of previous complaints and the decisions 
we reached on those. But a final decision brings our complaint handling  process to a close 
and we have no power to revisit a case once  a decision has been issued (and in one of 
these cases that took place  seven  years ago). So these arent matters we can now consider. 
As Ive explained what Im considering  in this decision is whether DAS was right to turn down 
the claim Mrs H made in July 2018.  
And I think the key issue here is whether the events  that gave rise to this claim occurred 
during the time she was insured with DAS.  I can see the general  terms of that policy  say we 
will provide  the insurance set out in the policy sections and endorsements specified as 
operative in the schedule  in respect of events occurring during the period of insurance 
shown in the schedule and any further  period for which  we may accept a renewal premium. 
Mrs Hs period of insurance  with DAS ended on 27 March 2006. 
So for the claim shes now making to be covered under that policy  the events giving rise to it 
must have  occurred during her period of insurance with DAS.  But I dont think they did. 
Another ombudsman  has already determined  that the issues raised  in past complaints  to us 
dont relate  to Mrs Hs original dispute  with her employer but stemmed from her unhappiness 
with her regulatory bodys decision to strike her off the register  in October  2009  and her 
ongoing concerns about  victimisation and harassment by her former employer following from 
that. 
Ref: DRN86848413Ive looked at the issues raised by Mrs H in her claim  form to DAS in July 2018. I appreciate 
that what happened in 2005 forms the backdrop to this but it seems to me that the claim Mrs 
H is now making stems from the regulatory  body hearing in October 2009 and whats 
happened since then.  I note in particular that the points shes  highlighted in the section 
headed Current position all relate  to these  matters and its assistance with them  that Mrs H 
is claiming for. Mrs H subsequently  clarified  to us that her claim is about the continuing 
refusal of her regulatory body to carry out a review of the strike  off decision and what she 
believes to be false representations  made  by that body to the courts.  It seems to me these 
matters are a continuation  of the chain  of events that commenced with the strike off decision 
in 2009. 
And Mrs H wasnt  insured with DAS at that point.  Because of that I dont need to think further 
about whether  DASs  position has been prejudiced or indeed whether the proceedings Mrs H 
is trying  to take are equivalent to judicial  review proceedings. Thats  because  Im already 
satisfied that, for the reasons Ive explained, the claim  shes  now making  isnt one thats 
covered by the policy she held with DAS.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8684841