K821x#15complaint
Mrs P has complained MoneyGram  International Limited, trading as MoneyGram,  wont  
refund €700 which  was released to someone who wasnt the proper recipient.
background
On 5 February 2018 Mrs P went to a bank in the country she lived in to use their 
MoneyGram services. She authorised  the sending of €700 to her sister, Mrs D, living  in 
another country. She was given an 8-digit  code  to give to Mrs D to allow her to pick up the 
money. When Mrs D went to collect the money  on 14 February,  itd already been picked up 
at an outlet in another  EU country.
Mrs P complained to MoneyGram. They werent  prepared to refund Mrs P as the person  
picking up the money  had given the right code and had used ID. Mrs P brought her 
complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence, including the ID MoneyGram accepted to pay 
out €700 to someone that wasnt the proper recipient. It seemed clear this was a fake driving 
licence from an EU country  and had very different  details to Mrs Ds actual UK driving 
licence. He didnt  think there was evidence  to show Mrs P (or Mrs D) had allowed access  to 
the 8-digit code  to anyone else. He saw nothing wrong  with Mrs P emailing her sister this 
code to enable  her to use it.
He asked MoneyGram to refund €700  to Mrs D along with 8% simple interest from 
14 February 2018 to the date of settlement.  
MoneyGram didnt agree  with this outcome and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  roughly the 
same conclusion as our adjudicator. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks and financial institutions  to 
refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply   about whether the customer had contributed to what had 
happened but nothing that Ive seen would have  an impact on how Im considering this case. 
So when we look at whether a business  has acted fairly in rejecting someones  fraud  
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence  and considered  the picture 
presented by our investigator in his view of 27 September 2019. The evidence here is clear:
Mrs P made an instruction to send money  at a bank overseas and received an 8-digit 
code;
Mrs P told us she emailed the code to her sister;
Mrs D didnt live or work anywhere  close to where the funds  were  collected;
Ref: DRN87749642Fake ID was used  to collect  the €700.  The driving licence details  including  the 
address  dont  match  Mrs D; and
MoneyGram doesnt require its agents to check the validity  of the ID so accepts that 
it may have accepted  fake ID.
Its impossible  to know the exact point of compromise of the 8-digit code. This could have 
been the result of Mrs Ps email being hacked  but it could just as easily  have been by other  
means. Weve notified MoneyGram previously of MoneyGram transactions  being  targeted  by 
fraudsters. Ive not seen  any breach of MoneyGrams terms and conditions  here by Mrs P.
Im satisfied MoneyGram allowed €700  to be paid out to a fraudster and therefore didnt fulfil 
Mrs Ps instruction. I appreciate theyre unable to check all different types  of ID they accept 
but having made the business  decision  to accept ID in this way, this can be the 
consequence.
Ive asked MoneyGram to refund money to Mrs P, rather  than Mrs D. I say this as it was her 
instruction they didnt  fulfil. She also paid a fee for the MoneyGram service which will need to 
be refunded to her as well.
I believe MoneyGram has been  given plenty of opportunity to sort things out and do the right 
thing. They havent  done so. This has added unnecessarily to the delays Mrs P has suffered. 
I feel MoneyGram should pay her €100  for the inconvenience shes had.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  MoneyGram International Limited, 
trading as MoneyGram, to:
Refund €721.90 (being the full amount  Mrs P paid) to Mrs P for the payment they 
paid out incorrectly;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 5 February 2018  to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay €100 to Mrs P for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8774964