K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) sold them 
unsuitable buildings and contents  insurance  and that it overcharged them for it for a number 
of years.  
background
Mr and Mrs H took out home  insurance  (building and contents) with Lloyds in January 2000.  
When the policy was sold the buildings cover  was unlimited cover, however the contents 
cover was £50,000. This was increased  to unlimited at the renewal  of 2008 and Lloyds told 
us this was a standard change throughout all policies of this type.
Mr and Mrs Hs main concern is that they were mis-sold the insurance policy. They say they 
didnt need unlimited cover. They feel they were  overcharged  because of this, and since 
cancelling the policy in 2016  have  been  offered much cheaper policies through  different  
insurers. They complained to Lloyds about this in 2016. Lloyds didnt think  the policy had 
been mis-sold or that it had overcharged them. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  response, Mr and Mrs H referred their complaint to this service. Since 
then, Lloyds made an offer to settle  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Following some further 
discussion it made a revised offer and overall our adjudicator thought that the latest offer 
was fair. Lloyds has also offered a further  £200 as compensation  for the trouble and upset 
Mr and Mrs H have been caused. In reaching their view our adjudicator didnt  think there 
was any evidence that the policy had been  mis-sold  and that the cover  provided was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs needs. 
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They thought the offer was inadequate considering  they were  mis-
sold the policy and given the price  they were  ultimately able to obtain cover for. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
mis-sale
Mr and Mrs H have complained that the policy was mis-sold. They say that Lloyds provided 
them with cover that they didnt need  specifically an unlimited sum assured. Lloyds 
explained that when offering an unlimited sum assured it makes its own assessment about 
the insurance risk and calculates the premium based on that risk. The information it uses  
relates specifically to the insured property,  so the price isnt based  on an unlimited sum. This 
means Mr and Mrs H will only have been  charged  for the amount  that Lloyds estimated it 
would cost to rebuild their home in the event of a total loss. 
The benefit  of this type of policy, compared  to one where the customer  chooses how much  
cover they think they need, is that there isnt a risk theyll be underinsured, should they need 
to make a claim. So I cant  agree that having  an unlimited sum assured meant the policy was 
unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN89158232Lloyds had an obligation to give Mr and Mrs H clear, fair and not misleading  information  
about the policy they were buying. Mr and Mrs H say they were never informed of the cost of 
the policy, and that it cost more than double a normal insurance policy. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to produce  any of the documents  related to the sale of their policy. 
So I dont  know exactly what Mr and Mrs H were told about the cost of their policy. I dont 
think this is unreasonable considering the length of time since  the sale. But I think  its 
unlikely they wouldve taken out the policy without having an idea of how much they were 
paying for it. And they would  have  been sent paperwork once the policy had started  that 
included information  about the cost. If this was different to what  theyd been told when the 
agreed to take out the insurance, its likely they would have questioned this at the time.
Im not persuaded, based on what Ive seen, that Lloyds failed to give information  to Mr and 
Mrs H regarding the cost of the insurance,  and this led them to take the policy  when they 
wouldnt otherwise  have done.  Mr and Mrs H think they shouldve been advised  of 
alternative policies  on the market. But Lloyds  didnt have to tell them  about  this. It only had to 
give suitable advice  about the policies it offered and clear information about what it was 
recommending. 
I appreciate the strength of feeling Mr and Mrs H have about this policy  being unsuitable. But 
based on what Ive seen I cannot conclude  that this policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H. 
policy premiums 
If I find that Lloyds hasnt treated Mr and Mrs H fairly, I will look to see what  compensation 
would be fair and in this case whether  I think what Lloyds has offered is fair.
When Mr and Mrs H took out their policy in 2000,  it cost £296.30 for the year.  Often new 
policies will have introductory discounts. This isnt uncommon and policies may well initially  
be priced lower to attract new customers.  I dont think its unfair for an insurer to seek to 
recoup that cost over the first few years. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs Hs premium  continued to increase  each year and they didnt 
engage with Lloyds about their premium until 2016.  
Mr and Mrs H say they trusted Lloyds so assumed  they were paying  competitively priced  
premiums for their home insurance. And it wasnt until 2016 that they contacted Lloyds 
discuss their premium  that the cost was challenged. Their policy  was cancelled shortly  after.   
If Lloyds increased the price just because Mr and Mrs H didnt engage at each renewal, that 
wouldnt be fair. Lloyds  has offered to refund some of the costs of the insurance premiums 
from 2009 onwards.   
Lloyds has offered to keep Mr and Mrs Hs premiums from 2009 at the same amount they 
were charged in 2008  so £564.59.  So it will refund the difference on the payments they 
made on their premiums from 2009 until 2016 when the policy  was cancelled.  For example, 
Mr and Mrs Hs premium in 2009 was £668.50.  Lloyds has offered to refund the difference 
between the 2009 and 2008 premiums, plus interest. And its done this for every yearly 
premium after 2008. Lloyds total offer is £2,566.70 plus interest of 8% for the time they were  
out of pocket. 
Ref: DRN89158233Mr and Mrs H say they were overcharged  for most of the time they held their policy,  and are 
therefore owed  a lot more  than this in compensation. In particular they have pointed to the 
cheaper quotes with alternative providers they were offered from 2016 onwards. Ive thought  
about this. But these policies would not have been identical  and so cant be compared like 
for like. Along  with a difference in premium, there also wouldve been differences  in cover 
and difference  excesses.  I must  also take into account that as these quotes  were for new 
policies being  set up in 2016  Mr and Mrs H possibly  received a new customer  discount on 
the premium cost as well. So it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to use this different policy  cost 
when working out its offer.  
Having considered Lloyds offer, I think its fair. It makes sure Mr and Mrs H havent  lost out if 
Lloyds did increase the price just because they didnt engage at each renewal
I also think Lloyds additional  compensation offer of £200, that it made  later on for the trouble 
caused to Mr and Mrs H, is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited offer to refund some of 
the costs of Mr and Mrs Hs policy from 2009  is fair.
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited additional  compensation offer of £200 for the trouble 
caused to Mr and Mrs H is also fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8915823