K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided  by Barclays Bank UK PLC when he called to 
check his balance.
background
Mr S called Barclays on 22 October 2018 to request an account balance.  The call was 
disconnected which caused him to call back.  
When he called back, Mr S believes he was connected to the same  advisor  hed been 
speaking to before the call was disconnected.  The advisor denied this was the case. Mr S 
was unhappy  with this as he feels the advisor was lying. He asked for a complaint  to be 
logged about this, as well as about the fact his first call had been  disconnected.
Mr S called Barclays on 6 November 2018  to discuss the complaint, as he hadnt received a 
call back as expected.  He was advised  a complaint hadnt been  logged. He was also told 
that hed been correct  in thinking hed spoken to the same advisor in both calls on 
22 October 2018. 
Mr S complained about the service hed been provided by Barclays overall. His complaint 
was investigated  and Barclays said they hadnt provided the service Mr S should expect or 
that theyd want  to provide. Barclays said they appreciated  Mr S had been inconvenienced 
by having his first call disconnected, and by not having his complaint logged when he first 
asked. 
But Barclays  also said that, having reviewed the audit  trail, it was clear Mr S had spoken to 
two separate individuals on 22 October 2018. They  apologised that hed been  given 
incorrect information about this on 6 November  2018. Barclays offered Mr S £50 in 
recognition of the inconvenience hed experienced. Mr S didnt accept  this and brought  his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case.  She thought Barclays  offer was fair, but Mr S 
disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes listening to the calls referred 
to above. Having considered everything, my decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why below. 
I understand Mr S is unhappy that his first call with Barclays on 22 October  2018 
disconnected. I understand a disconnected  call, and having to call back,  can be frustrating. 
But Mr S was able to call back  straight  away and be connected with an advisor who then 
assisted him with his balance  query.  And as the first call had been so short (less than 30 
seconds) Mr S didnt  need to repeat much information. So whilst I accept Mr S wouldve 
been inconvenienced, I dont think this wouldve  had a significant impact  on him.
At the end of the second call on 22 October 2018,  Mr S asked for a complaint to be logged.  
He was told this would  be done  and that hed receive a call back. This didnt happen, and as 
a result Mr S called Barclays back to follow this up. 
Ref: DRN89807772Having listened  to all the calls, I can hear Mr S made a complaint and was told he should  
expect a call back. So its fair that he was expecting this to happen,  and its not reasonable 
that he should have to follow up with Barclays when he hadnt received the call back. I also 
heard that he was told hed been  speaking to the same advisor in both calls on 
22 October 2018. But having  listened  to these calls and looking at the audit notes I can see 
this wasnt the case. So he shouldnt have  been told this on 6 November 2018. 
Barclays have acknowledged  they made an error.  They  shouldve  logged the complaint as 
promised, and they shouldnt have told Mr S hed spoken to the same  advisor  on 
22 October 2018. They offered £50 in recognition of these errors, and to acknowledge the 
inconvenience Mr S experienced in having to call them to follow up his complaint. 
I can appreciate it must be frustrating  for things  to go wrong,  and inconvenient to complain. 
But sometimes things do go wrong.  And just because someone has made a complaint, or 
referred their complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service,  doesnt mean they are due 
compensation. 
In Mr S case, Barclays said they felt they couldve provided a better service. Taking into 
account all the circumstances, I think the £50 compensation Barclays  has offered Mr S is fair 
and reasonable.  
Mr S feels  hes received poor service from Barclays due to racially motivated reasons. Its 
not our services role to decide  whether a Barclays advisor was racist.  But having reviewed 
everything, Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that any of Barclays actions were racially 
motivated.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8980777