K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained about the way in which Nationwide  Building Society  dealt 
with their mortgage application. They say they were given incorrect information and were  
discriminated against because of their age.
background
In February 2018  Mr and Mrs S wanted to apply  for a mortgage with Nationwide.  They  were  
applying through a scheme Nationwide had at the time called  Borrowing Into Retirement 
(BIR). This was designed  for older borrowers who are established  homeowners  with a stable  
income in retirement.  This included income derived from a business such  as dividends or 
profit-share. 
Initially Mr and Mrs Ss application was declined after their income and expenditure was 
entered into an online calculator during a telephone interview. The reason  for the refusal was 
because rental income on Mr and Mrs Ss buy-to-let (BTL)  properties was disallowed as 
being suitable income for a BIR mortgage.
After checking  online,  Mr and Mrs S found  information about Nationwides  lending  criteria 
which suggested there had been a mistake. This was followed up with Nationwide  which 
confirmed that the rental income was valid. 
Mr and Mrs S decided  to wait until July before reapplying. They had an interview on 17 July 
2018, but this didnt  proceed to a full application.  Thats because, again, Nationwide  said it 
wouldnt accept BTL rental income  as a source of income for a BIR mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S complained. They said they had been discriminated against because  of their 
age. Nationwide  didnt  uphold the complaint, so it was brought to us where an investigator 
looked at it.
The investigator initially didnt think Nationwide had done anything  wrong.  But after reviewing  
further points  made by Mr and Mrs S, and obtaining  more information from Nationwide,  he 
changed his mind. He didnt  think Nationwide  had discriminated  against Mr and Mrs S on the 
basis of age, so he didnt uphold that part of the complaint.  But he did think Nationwides  
communication had been poor and this had led Mr and Mrs S to believe that they had been 
discriminated against. He asked Nationwide to pay compensation of £300, which it agreed to 
do. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept this, and maintain they have been discriminated against on 
the basis of age.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Ive noted the points  Mr and Mrs S have made about  age discrimination. I can see they feel 
strongly that their application for a BIR mortgage  was declined due to Nationwide taking into 
account criteria which discriminated against  them due to their age.
Ref: DRN80072802Age discrimination was outlawed when the relevant  parts of the Equality Act 2010 came  into 
force in 2012.  An exception was made for providers of financial services. They are allowed 
to make decisions based on age  this is known as the financial services  exemption.  But 
where Nationwide has made a risk assessment for the purpose of providing a financial 
service, insofar as the assessment  concerns  age, the assessment must be carried  out using 
information relevant  to the risk from a source  upon  which it is reasonable to rely. If 
Nationwide makes a risk assessment that isnt based on relevant information from a reliable  
source, it cant rely on the exemption. 
I note that Nationwide has now withdrawn the BIR mortgage, as it is offering  other  products 
to the market for retired customers. Having reviewed  everything Nationwide  has provided 
about its lending  criteria, Im satisfied Nationwide did make mistakes in what  it told Mr and 
Mrs S, but I dont think Nationwide discriminated against Mr and Mrs S due to their age. 
Nationwide allows income from a lettings business for a BIR mortgage. So it should have 
taken this into account when calculating affordability  of the new mortgage Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to take out. Nationwide has acknowledged  that telling Mr and Mrs S it couldnt  take 
this into account  was an error.
For a mortgaged property,  Nationwides criteria was that the properties would be treated as 
self-financing if the rental income is at least 145% of the mortgage payment. (for example, if 
the mortgage payment is £600  per month,  then the rental income  must  be at least £870 per 
month)  If it is less than this, then the difference will be applied  as an outgoing within  the 
affordability criteria. 
From what  Mr and Mrs S have told us, their BTL properties were  mortgaged.  They did not 
have a lettings  business, such as a partnership or limited company. According to 
Nationwides criteria,  any profit from their rentals would be treated as investment income by 
Nationwide, rather than earned income. Thats  because of the risk of income fluctuation,  
which means that a steady income is not guaranteed. Hence there is an increased risk to 
Nationwide.
Mr and Mrs S have  acknowledged that their rental  properties could  become  vacant,  leaving 
them with four mortgages to pay. But as borrowers  in retirement, relying  on this investment 
income to fund their Nationwide  mortgage, Im satisfied that the risk to Nationwide is greater 
than with borrowers who are not retired. In the event of rental voids  on the BTL or even 
default on the BTL mortgages, there  are fewer opportunities  for retired  borrowers to be able 
to mitigate their position, for example by taking  on another job. In the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that there is an increased risk to Nationwide  of lending to retired borrowers who are 
using the rent from mortgaged properties.as a source of income.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs Ss investment  income  would have been  sufficient  to satisfy 
Nationwides affordability criteria for the mortgage; the application never  reached that stage 
because Nationwide, in error, told Mr and Mrs S that it couldnt be included when calculating 
affordability.
Nationwides acknowledged it gave  Mr and Mrs S incorrect information,  and its agreed to 
pay compensation of £300 for this. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S wanted. I hope my explanation clarifies why 
I think Nationwide is entitled to apply different criteria to rental income  when assessing  
Ref: DRN80072803affordability for retired borrowers.  But ultimately, claims of discrimination under the Equality 
Act 2010 are for the court to decide. If Mr and Mrs S reject my decision,  they are still free to 
pursue their grievances  against Nationwide through the courts,  if they want  to do so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I partly  uphold this complaint.  In full and final settlement, I direct 
Nationwide Building  Society to pay Mr and Mrs S compensation of £300 for poor customer 
service. I make  no other  order  or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8007280