K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
personal loan in 2009. Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S says that he was led to believe that he needed  to take out the PPI. It looks  like the loan 
and PPI were originally sold on the phone by Lloyds. They  dont have the call recording or 
any call scripts to show what was most  likely discussed  which  I dont think  is surprising  or 
unusual as businesses  are not required to keep records indefinitely.  But Lloyds have given 
me a copy  of the loan agreement which wouldve been sent to Mr S to complete and return  
after the phone discussion.
I can see theres a section relating to PPI. It describes the PPI as optional  and I can see that 
Mr S has signed for it separately from his signature  for the credit. 
So on balance, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this as the sale 
was a long time ago. 
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr S says he would  have some sick pay. But this policy could have paid out for the 
remaining term of the loan Mr S had been unable to work due to illness or injury so 
potentially for a lot longer than he would  have been receiving an income. It also would have 
paid out for up to 12 months if he had lost his job unexpectedly. And while I dont doubt that 
Mr Ss family would have  wanted to help, this depended on them being able to when  he 
needed it, which wasnt guaranteed. So I think he could  have found  the policy useful if 
something went wrong. 
The loan agreement  showed the monthly  and potential total cost of the policy. So I think 
Mr S wouldve  understood how much  he would need  to pay for it.
Its possible the other information  Lloyds provided about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  Mr S chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And as above,  I think  the policy was right for him. It also looks  it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
Ref: DRN88419342But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because In 2017,  following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds said that the level of commission and profit  share it received  did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr S paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr S for the time they were out of pocket.  
Mr S says if he knew Lloyds were getting  commission for selling PPI he wouldnt have 
agreed to it. But as I have  set out in my findings above I think  he chose to take the cover out 
as the protection it provided would  have been useful  to him.  I also think  he was aware of 
how much  the policy was going to cost him. Im not persuaded that better information about 
the commission element  of the policy would have stopped  him taking  the insurance at all. 
And Lloyds  has offered  to do what the rules  it must  follow  tell it to do.  
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ss particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling them about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. But I 
dont think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
So I wont  be telling Lloyds to do anything differently.  
I also note that Lloyds made Mr S an offer for the amount included in this loan because of a 
previous PPI policy. This offer was paid to Mr S some time ago so I dont think  they need to 
do anything more in respect of this offer. 
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr S 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN88419343Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Hannah Eykel 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8841934