K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about how Post Office Management Services  Limited administered his 
motor insurance policy.  This was cancelled from the start (voided). He wants the cancellation  
marker removed and compensation. 
background
Mr W said Post Office  told him it would email  him his proof of No Claims Discount  (NCD) for 
his policy  previously held with it. But the agent  didnt do this until five days later.  Mr W also 
complained that he had two letters from Post Office dated the same day with conflicting 
information about his policys cancellation by the insurer. 
Post Office  apologised  for the errors and offered Mr W £50 compensation. But it said it 
couldnt comment on the insurers decision. Mr W was unhappy as he had a voidance  on his 
record and his premiums  had increased. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Post 
Office had apologised for its errors and that its offer of compensation for them was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr W replied that he would  like his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman,  so its come  
to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ws complaint  concerns the actions of his insurer and his broker,  Post Office. I can only 
look at his concerns  about Post Office here as the two are separate businesses.  I can see 
that Mr W has also complained to the insurer about  its decisions  and he has also brought  his 
complaint about  it to our service. 
From what  I can see, the sequence of events was that Mr Ws insurer  instructed Post Office 
to cancel Mr Ws policy from the start (void it). Post Office sent Mr W an incorrect  letter 
saying that the policy  would cancel  with seven days notice. But it sent him another  letter on 
the same  day saying that the policy would be declared void, and his premiums would be 
refunded. 
I agree  that this would  be confusing for Mr W and I can see he had to email Post Office to 
understand what had happened. He was then sent a notification that his policy was voided, 
but his premiums were  retained. This caused  more confusion.
Post Office  wasnt responsible for the insurers decision to void his policy  and retain the 
premiums. So I cant  require it to remove the marker from his record or reimburse him for his 
increased premiums with his new insurer. 
Mr W then asked Post Office for proof  of his NCD. This wasnt  emailed to him when he 
expected and he had to ask for it again. I havent  seen that this delay caused Mr W any loss 
apart from his inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN89672002I think these errors did cause Mr W some inconvenience and confusion.  But I can see that 
Post Office  has acknowledged  this and apologised. Its also offered Mr W £50 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  this caused.  I think thats  fair and reasonable as its what  Id require 
in similar  circumstances. So I dont require Post Office to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8967200