K820x#14complaint
Mr C says that after withdrawing money from a branch of Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) he was 
robbed. He believes a member of Lloydss staff was involved in this. 
background
On 3 November 2017, Mr C went into a branch of Lloyds and withdrew  £5000 from his 
account. 
Mr C says the cashier encouraged him to withdraw  more cash  than he intended, was acting 
suspiciously and didnt count the money before placing  it in two envelopes.  The cashier 
handed Mr C the envelopes, which he placed in his pocket before leaving the branch. 
Shortly after leaving, the money Mr C had withdrawn was stolen from him. Mr C returned  to 
the branch following the incident and the robbery was reported to the police. 
At the time Mr C didnt raise any concerns with the branch but made  a complaint  to Lloyds 
over a year later on 27 November 2018.  
Lloyds looked  into Mr Cs concerns and said that it was satisfied the cash  withdrawal was 
completed correctly and that it would fully co-operate with any investigation that the police 
may undertake on Mr Cs behalf.
Unhappy with Lloyds  response Mr C brought his complaint  to this service  and one of our 
investigators looked into things. The investigator  didnt  think that Mr Cs complaint  should be 
upheld. She sympathised  with Mr Cs circumstances,  but said she couldnt fairly ask Lloyds 
to refund the money.  
Mr C was not satisfied  and asked for an ombudsman  decision as he believes he has been 
wronged by Lloyds, so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr C was robbed of £5,000 after leaving the branch. I can see how distressing this event  has 
been for him, and not just because of the loss of the money. I dont underestimate the impact 
this mustve had and I have great sympathy  for Mr C - but in order for me to ask Lloyds to 
refund him the money  Id have to find that it was responsible in some  way for what  had 
happened. 
Ive considered the matter carefully and I cant agree  that Lloyds was responsible for a crime 
that was committed outside the branch. I realise  that this will come  as a disappointment to 
Mr C, so Id like to explain  how Ive reached this conclusion.
There are three elements to Mr Cs complaint, for ease Ill address each one separately;
was the cashier  complicit in the theft that took place after Mr C left the branch;
did the cashier give Mr C the correct  amount  of money; and 
should Lloyds  have done  more  to protect Mr C? 
Ref: DRN83731902theft
Mr C says he told the cashier hed like to withdraw  £4000 but she told him to withdraw 
£5000. I dont doubt that Mr C is a truthful person  and he believes he has provided an 
honest recollection of events. But he did not complain about the incident until almost a year 
later. So, its possible  Mr C is mistaken  in his recollection of what  happened  on 
3 November 2017. 
Lloyds have also provided this service,  with a statement, of the branchs version of events 
but have said due to the passage of time, it cannot  confirm things with any certainty. So, in a 
situation like this, where its one persons word against another,  and a fair amount of time 
has passed since the event being complained  about - I have to reach a decision based on 
the evidence available  to me and what I think,  on balance, is most likely  to have happened.
I note that Mr C thinks that obtaining  CCTV  wouldve  made a difference  but due to the length 
of time that has passed this is not available. But even if it was still available,  what is disputed  
is what was said in the discussions that took place and I dont think CCTV would confirm 
what was actually discussed.
Ive considered the evidence available to me, which shows that Mr C placed  his card into the 
reader, checked  and confirmed £5000 as the correct amount and entered  his personal 
identification number  (PIN) to authorise  the withdrawal. If this wasnt  something Mr C 
wanted to do  he did have the opportunity  to cancel the transaction. 
I havent seen  anything to support why the cashier wouldve told Mr C to take £5000. 
I appreciate Mr C feels that the cashier was complicit in the theft,  which occurred outside the 
branch, which  is why he believes he was encouraged to withdraw a larger sum. But this is a 
serious assertion  and I hope Mr C understands that it wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
uphold his complaint based solely on what hes told us. Notwithstanding an allegation, of this 
nature is considered criminal and is a matter for the police. It isnt our services role to 
investigate crime.  
Mr C also claims the cashier was acting suspiciously and went into the back office  which is 
when he thinks the perpetrators were informed that he would  be leaving the branch with a 
large sum of money. I can see why in hindsight having been  a victim of a robbery  Mr C 
would think this. But there isnt evidence to support that is whats happened.  
Whilst Im unable  to confirm with certainty, I think its more likely than not that if the cashier 
did leave the till it was to go into the back office or safe to get the cash  as there  wasnt  
enough available on the till. I say this because Mr C visited the branch  early in the morning, 
not long after itd opened and generally  tills at this time do not hold large  amounts of cash.  
Ive also asked Lloyds  if there were  any other  complaints of a similar nature to Mr Cs raised  
 it confirmed there hasnt  been any. 
Im satisfied that in these  circumstances,  I cant fairly and reasonably find Lloyds at fault.  
Ref: DRN83731903withdrawal  incorrect amount given
Mr C has said the cash wasnt counted before being  given to him and so believes he wasnt 
given the correct amount of cash. 
Im not sure why Mr C didnt  raise  this with the branch at the time of the incident but I dont 
think it would  be reasonable for me to uphold his complaint without  there being at least some  
persuasive evidence  to support that he wasnt given  the correct  amount. 
Lloyds has provided  us with a statement from the branch, the cashier transaction  log, 
statements showing £5,000 debited Mr Cs account and evidence of the cashiers till 
balancing at the end of the day. Further Mr C didnt  himself count the money  before leaving 
the branch. 
So whilst I understand Mr Cs frustration,  I think taking  all the evidence  into consideration, on 
balance it seems unlikely  that he was given  the incorrect  amount of cash. 
should Lloyds  have done more?
Mr C has said Lloyds owed him a duty of care as a vulnerable consumer  the cashier 
shouldve done  more to warn him about the need to keep his money safe.
I have considered the industry guidance  and good practice on vulnerable consumers. There  
is a strong  expectation  within the industry that businesses take proactive steps to identify 
and assist vulnerable consumers.  
So, the crucial  question is could Lloyds have  done anything else to prevent Mr C from 
withdrawing the money? 
Some years  ago Mr C had fallen victim to a card scam  since  then he visits a branch to 
withdraw cash in large amounts and then uses this to pay for his day to day expenses.  Mr C 
has said on 3 November  2017 he withdrew  money for personal use. He took a larger  than 
usual amount out as he was planning to travel abroad and needed  to take cash  with him. 
I cant confirm whether Mr C was warned by the cashier but on balance  I think  even if the 
cashier had highlighted the risks of carrying large  sums of money, suggested other  payment 
methods and or bringing a relative  when taking away a large sum of money  given this was 
how Mr C usually transacts  I think its more likely  than not he wouldve still gone ahead  and 
withdrawn the funds.
I understand the situation Mr C finds himself in is upsetting  but its also possible that 
someone saw him make  the withdrawal,  followed  him out of the branch and robbed him. I 
think its more likely  that this was the case. 
I realise Mr C will be disappointed with my decision,  but Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
couldve done more,  nor have I seen evidence  to support that Mr C was given an incorrect  
amount of cash or that bank  staff were involved in the crime. I dont  believe   based on the 
evidence I have  that it would be fair to hold Lloyds responsible for what  happened  to Mr C. 
Ref: DRN83731904my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Sonal Matharu
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8373190