K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Equifax Limited refused  him online  access  unfairly. He also says it took 
payment from him three times but didnt provide a service.
background
Mr S signed  up for a one month free trial with Equifax in June 2017. After  the first month, 
Equifax took payment of £14.95 from Mr S. Mr S requested a chargeback seven days  later 
because hed cancelled  the direct debit  before  the payment was taken. So Equifax blocked  
his online  access.  When Mr S tried to access the service in 2018, he was told his account 
was permanently locked  down because hed made a chargeback. He says Equifax took 
three payments from him but didnt provide the service hed paid for or a refund.
Mr S complained to Equifax but it rejected his complaint. So he came  to this service.  Our 
adjudicator initially  thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld, but after considering Equifaxs 
terms and conditions, he decided Equifax  hadnt  treated Mr S fairly.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see the payment was taken at the 
end of the free trial month and was payment  in advance  for the following  month  so I dont  
think Equifax was wrong to take the payment when it did. But Mr S says hed already 
cancelled the direct debit before it went through and thats why he made the chargeback. He 
didnt use the service after the free trial period so this seems  to have been a legitimate use 
of the chargeback process. 
Equifaxs terms and conditions state at para 8.3:
If any payment that you owe us is declined, rejected or reversed for any reason, we will 
continue to provide  you with access  to your Product and will try to take monies owed for the 
Product for a total of 60 days. If after 60 days payment  is still owed then we will cancel your 
access to the Product and you will not be required to pay the outstanding subscription 
charges owed by you in respect of the Product.
A chargeback is a reason  for the reversal of a payment  and therefore  I find it reasonable to 
consider this provision  would apply to a chargeback in these circumstances. As Equifax 
didnt challenge  the chargeback or try to get monies owed in any other  way.in  this case, I 
dont think Equifax acted  in accordance  with its terms and conditions when it blocked Mr Ss 
access to the online  service. I think its unfair for Equifax  to block Mr S completely from 
accessing its online service purely  because he made a legitimate chargeback request. 
Therefore I find that Equifax should  remove the block  for online access from Mr Ss account 
so that he can use the online service if he pays for it or is eligible for a free trial period  in the 
future. Equifax should also pay him £100 as compensation for the inconvenience its caused  
him being unable to check his credit score online since  2017.
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is upheld. 
Equifax Limited  should remove the block from Mr Ss account and pay him £100  as 
compensation for the inconvenience its unfair  treatment has caused  him.
Ref: DRN89909502Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990950