K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) will not remove her name from a joint current 
account she had with a former partner. She would like her name  removing from the account 
or the balance transferring to a new account in her ex partners name
background 
Ms B had a Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) joint current account with her ex-partner from whom 
she has been separated for many years. She told this service that she hadnt used the bank 
account since 2011, but has asked  Lloyds numerous times  since then to remove her name. 
She said the last time she used the account was in November  2011, but that in 2017 Lloyds 
sent her a bank card which  she took back to them explaining the position.  She also said that 
in 2013 she went  into a branch and told Lloyds that she had nothing to do with the account  
and they provided  her with a form her and her ex partner to complete. She completed hers 
but assumes her ex partner didnt.
Lloyds said it was not made aware of Ms Bs separation until the 7 January 2019 and then it 
put the account into dispute  and froze all transactions.  Lloyds have also confirmed Ms B did 
visit a branch in August 2013 and their records indicated only a change  of address for her. At 
that time the account was overdrawn  by £3,600,  but after that it went into credit  with the last 
time it was in credit being the 18 October  2018.
But Lloyds also said that it couldnt  remove her name until her ex partner agreed to it, and 
that couldnt be done in any event until the account was brought back into credit or with a 
zero balance. And they confirmed that they had not received the correctly signed  forms and 
in their view both account holders were jointly and severally liable  for the debt on the 
account. 
Ms B was unhappy  with Lloyds response  and so an investigator from this service looked  into 
the complaint  and thought  that Lloyds should confirm  in writing that Ms B that she is no 
longer liable for any debt accrued on the account, and all data recorded on her credit  file 
relating to events  on the joint account  after 15 August  2013  be removed. As Lloyds didnt 
agree, the complaint has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Ms B. My aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable outcome has been achieved,  which  
means taking into account both Lloyds view and that of Ms B. I do not perform  the role of 
the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power to make rules  for financial businesses, 
punish them,  or direct that they change  their processes. That falls under the remit of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court  service.  My decisions are based on 
the evidence supplied to me, and I am bound to reach a decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more likely  to have happened in the light of 
that evidence  and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Ms B 
stopped using the account in 2011. Lloyds have not challenged  that assertion. It is accepted 
Ref: DRN80142022by Lloyds that Ms B went into a branch in August 2013, which is over 18 months  after she 
stopped using the account. The question is why. Lloyds accept Ms B notified them  of her 
change in address,  and so they would be alert to the fact that she was not living with her ex 
partner. On the face of it, that would  not indicate  Ms B wanted to close  the account. 
However, she says she told them that and the reason why - and of course she says was 
given forms by the bank for that very purpose. Ive thought  about  Ms Bs position at that 
time. On her account  she had been separated from a man she describes in unflattering 
terms and from who she wished to dissociate  herself. It seems more  likely than not that her 
visit to the branch was not simply to change her address  details, since  that could  have bene  
more easily  done  by letter or email,  but rather to obtain the very forms she says she was 
given. So I can accept  that that was what she did. Having accepted that, I also think it likely  
that she would then persevere  with Lloyds to try to have her name removed.
Lloyds said it had no record  of being told anything other than Ms B wanted  to change her 
address details. But, if one considers the evidence Ive mentioned above it seems more  
likely than not that she did tell the branch staff about  her separation  and wish to be removed 
from the account, because why else would  she be getting the forms. So I think a reasonable 
person would know precisely what it was she was trying to do, even if she didnt know  how 
to go about achieving that.
Lloyds have made the point that in August  2013 , Ms B would  have a joint and several debt to 
them since  the account was overdrawn.  The account subsequently went  into credit meaning, 
at that point, Ms Bs liability to the bank would have ended, if the account had been closed 
as she had asked.  But it wasnt,  and it went into debit again.  The reason for that is entirely 
due to Ms Bs ex partner since it is he who has solely used the account. Lloyds have 
candidly said that they cannot  close the account until it is either at a zero balance or in 
credit, and I can understand why. The difficulty with Lloyds  argument is that the account  did 
go into credit  at a time when it was, in my view, on notice that Ms B wanted the account to 
go into dispute. So, irrespective  of the whether Lloyds had received the forms it wanted, it 
should have placed the account into dispute then.
Whilst the account is still in existence  and she is still a party to it, Ms B remains  jointly  and 
severally liable for the debt that now exists. But, in the light of my findings,  that is not fair, 
because the bank knew of her intentions regarding the account and had within  its power the 
ability to freeze the account, despite not having the correct forms. That is borne  out from 
their own guidance  indicating that the bank may be put on enquiry that a party  seeks to 
cancel the mandate, by seeking  to remove the other partys name. 
So looking  at this from a fair and reasonable perspective, which I am obliged to do, I am left 
with this; Ms B made it clear to Lloyds in August 2013 that she wanted to be removed from 
the joint account. Lloyds werent able to do that when  the account  was in a debit positon, but 
they could when it wasnt. When the account  went into credit it ought to have been  put into 
dispute, because  this is what Ms B had clearly indicated, although I accept had not used that 
term. Any transactions after August 2013 are very clearly attributable  to Ms Bs ex partner 
and so the resultant debt belongs to him. So I agree with our investigators view and the 
fairest thing  to do is for Lloyds to confirm in writing to Ms B that she is no longer liable for 
any debt accrued on the joint account  she holds with her ex-partner, and to also remove  all 
data recorded  on her credit file relating  to events on the joint account after 15 August 2013.
Ref: DRN80142023my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold the complaint  against  Lloyds Bank  PLC and I require 
it to confirm in writing to Ms B that she is no longer liable  for any debt accrued on the joint 
account she holds  with her ex-partner, and to remove all data recorded  on her credit  file 
relating to events  on the joint account  after 15 August  2013.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8014202