K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms B took out with a store card in 2003. Its been  
agreed that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, 
Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Ms B that she had a choice about  it. But 
Ms B has said the PPI was added without her knowledge.
FICL has sent us a copy of Ms Bs application form for the store  card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a space for Ms B to sign if she wanted to take it out. And Ms B has 
signed in the space.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think FICL made it clear to Ms B that she had a choice 
about the PPI. And that Ms B chose to take it, knowing  she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Ms B any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Ms B. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay. So it looks like it couldve been useful to her.
Ms B has said she was working  part-time when the policy was sold,  and so couldnt  benefit 
from it. But the policy still provided cover for people working part-time. So I still think  it 
couldve been useful  to Ms B.
Ref: DRN85291342my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529134