K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  after he had to queue in 
branch to deposit cash into his account.  He says he tried to deposit  the money through  the 
machine several  times but it wouldnt  accept  his notes. 
background
Mr M tried to pay cash into his account  using  the Cash & Deposit machine in branch. He 
says he tried for 15 to 20 minutes to put the money in the machine but it kept rejecting his 
notes. So instead  he had to queue up to make the deposit over the counter. He says that it 
took him nearly  an hour in total to make  the payment  into his account.  
Mr M complained to Natwest as he was unhappy with the service.  NatWest  reviewed 
matters and apologised for the inconvenience  caused. It explained  that the Cash & Deposit 
machine in question was working normally. But it explained that the machine can only accept 
notes that are in good condition and it will automatically reject any damaged  notes, 
discoloured notes or any notes with any writing on them.
Mr M was unhappy with NatWests response  so he referred his complaint to our service  for 
review. He said NatWest had called him a liar as no other  customers  had any problems with 
the machine that day. And hed like financial redress for being hugely inconvenienced as a 
customer as its taken  a couple of hours out of his life. 
One of our investigators  reviewed matters but as NatWest had apologised and Mr M hadnt  
suffered any financial  loss she didnt think it needed  to do any more to put things  right. 
Mr M didnt  agree so the matter has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. 
Id firstly  like to say that I dont think the fact that NatWest said there werent  any reported 
problems with the machine means that it disbelieves what Mr M has said or that it thinks  hes 
lying; its simply stating a fact that the machine was in working order. 
In his initial call with the investigator Mr M mentioned that two of the notes he was trying to 
pay in were old £20 notes. So, given that the machine can only accept  notes that are in good 
condition, I think its likely  that this was why Mr M was unable to make  his deposit through 
the machine. 
I know Mr M feels hes been hugely  inconvenienced by having to spend an hour trying to 
deposit money into his account and I appreciate that this may have caused him some  
frustration. But Mr M told the investigator  that the lady in branch apologised at the time and I 
can see that NatWest apologised again  in its final response.  
Mr M has since spent  additional time following this complaint up. But NatWest had already 
apologised by this point and I don't think the inconvenience caused was significant enough 
for the business  to pay any compensation. 
Ref: DRN83966612NatWest has already apologised for the inconvenience caused. So Im not asking it to do 
any more than its already  done.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8396661