K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained that Tradex Insurance  Company Limited didnt deal with his claim 
reasonably under his trade  motor  policy following an accident.
background
On 3 July 2017 Mr F was involved in accident where  he reversed into a garage causing 
damage to the vehicle  he was driving, the garage wall and two cars, one inside the garage 
and one outside the garage. The garage was owned  by his brother and the other cars both 
inside and outside the garage, were owned by Mr F.
So he made a claim  to Tradex. It initially had concerns that Mr F didnt disclose that he had a 
criminal conviction, which delayed things as it decided to cancel his policy  as if it never  
existed. It later reinstated his policy.
Tradex paid Mr F a cash in lieu settlement for the damage to the car outside the garage. 
But Mr F then didnt  think the valuations Tradex put on both the vehicle he was driving  and 
the vehicle he owned in the garage (both being  a total loss) were fair. He also couldnt  
understand why it wasnt dealing  with the garage  wall claim, since he extensively damaged it 
in the accident.
So he brought his complaint to us. Ultimately, the investigator thought the valuations  to both 
the total loss vehicles  by Mr F should be increased.  Tradex didnt agree as it thought the 
valuations placed  on the vehicles by its engineer  were fair. Mr F didnt agree because he 
didnt think the increases  recommended by the investigator were  enough.
So as neither party agreed, Mr Fs complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, whilst Mr F damaged the garage with a vehicle he owned which was insured with 
Tradex, he cannot make a claim for the repair of that damage to the garage.  It has to be 
owner of the garage who makes the claim to Tradex and it is the owner of the garage that 
Tradex then negotiates  with, over the damage to the garage.  It doesnt  matter that the 
garage was owned by Mr Fs brother, it still must be Mr Fs brother who makes that claim, 
not Mr F. And I understand that is now being  dealt  with now.  So I dont consider Tradex did 
anything wrong  here as regards Mr F.
Secondly, Tradex had legitimate concerns as to whether or not Mr F had disclosed any 
criminal convictions. And had some concerns if he owned the vehicle he was driving.  This 
delayed the processing of his claim and Tradex paid Mr F £150 for the delay its 
investigations caused. I consider this reasonable.
So we are left with the valuations to the two vehicles which  were rendered  a total loss by the 
accident, the one Mr F was driving  and the one inside the garage.  This service  believes that 
the relevant industry trade guides  are the best tools to value vehicles because they show the 
actual selling prices,  rather  than the asking  prices and consequently  are more accurate. 
Ref: DRN83500332Therefore, I dont consider the various  online adverts that Mr F has produced  indicate  the 
valuations of the industry trade guides are wrong. And I think it was reasonable of Tradex  to 
rely on the industry trades  consequently to value the market value of both of these vehicles.
Turning first to the vehicle  Mr F was driving. This was a van, to which there  was some type 
of ramp fitted to it, which Mr F was very concerned about. However, I agree with Tradex that 
the ramp attachment doesnt affect  the market  value of the van as it can be removed.  Whats  
insured under Mr Fs policy is simply the market  value of his van regardless of such ramp  
attachments. Just like the fact that four new tyres could have been fitted just before the 
accident, despite the cost of that outlay, the fact the car, now a total loss, had new tyres 
fitted doesnt increase the market  value of the car, merely potentially the salvage value. 
Initially Mr F wanted to retain  the salvage  of this van, which  would have meant he could have 
retained this ramp too, but he changed  his mind in December 2017. Therefore, I dont 
consider the value of the ramp makes any difference to the market value of Mr Fs van.
Tradex thought  Mr Fs van wasnt in great condition so although the trade guides said its 
value was £3,860 it offered Mr F £3,250. Mr F didnt agree.  The investigator thought Tradex 
should increase  its offer to £3,500. I think thats reasonable. The valuation of vehicles isnt 
an exact science  given issues such as body condition and mileage may vary the value 
considerably. Therefore,  I consider a reduction  from the market value to be fair in Mr Fs 
case but I think the increase to £3,500 suggested  by the investigator  is more reasonable.
The car in the garage that was damaged  had a very high mileage and the industry  trade 
guides said its market  value was £3,270. Mr F thought it should be worth £4,000 but that 
doesnt take account of the high mileage.  The investigator thought Tradexs  valuation  of 
£2,500 was too much on the low side bearing in mind the make of this car and its 
desirability. I agree.  I consider increasing it to £3,000 is more  reasonable.
This matter has been ongoing for some  considerable time, given Tradexs legitimate 
enquiries. However thats also meant  Mr F has been without the market value for both of 
these vehicles for some considerable  time. Tradex quite rightly offered to pay Mr F by way of 
interim payments, which would have helped Mr F financially  but Mr F refused this. I note Mr 
F received  payment from Tradex on 7 February 2018.
Therefore, I think Tradex need  to pay Mr F a further  £750 being the total of the small 
increase on both vehicle valuations. I also consider it should  pay interest of 8% simple per 
year on this £750 from 7 February 2018 to the date it now pays him.
Ref: DRN83500333my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Tradex Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr F a total of £750  being the increased valuation on both vehicles.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from 7 February 2018 to the date it pays  Mr F.*
*If Tradex  Insurance  Company  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. 
It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350033