K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that he was given unsuitable  advice by Phoenix Life Limited to change  his 
pension. A previous decision  has been  issued on this complaint, but new evidence has 
identified that the redress was incorrect.
Background
Mr W took out a pension policy in 1987  and a further  one in 1989 with a company I will call 
X. He met with an adviser from Phoenix  in 1993 to discuss life insurance  and he says he 
was told he could get a better pension deal with Phoenix.  He took out a Phoenix  pension 
policy and cancelled his 1987 policy with X. It contacted him and he then cancelled his policy 
with Phoenix and took out a new one with X. At this time he also complained to Phoenix that 
he hadnt been properly informed about the charges he would incur  and it paid him 
compensation of £300.
The 1987  policy  with X had a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR), but the 1993 one didnt. In 
2017 when Mr W was reviewing his pensions he discovered the 1993 policy with X didnt 
have a GAR and as a result his expected pension was smaller than it would have been. He 
complained to Phoenix which  responded by saying the 1987 policy with X didnt have a GAR 
and so he hadnt lost out. It later corrected this error,  but rejected his complaint and said it 
hadnt advised him to end the old policy.
Mr W brought his complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended  it be upheld. She noted that on the fact find, in the section 
titled priorities, under  the heading  retirement , a note was recorded which stated: May wish 
to change. Check. Not happy with service of present  company. Would  there be any penalties 
for changing?
She concluded this indicated  that even though Mr W was unhappy with the service hed 
received from X, he was concerned  about any penalties that may apply if he changed his 
pension. She thought  the records suggested the adviser gave advice on this. On the fact find 
and policy  replacement questionnaire, the adviser  has made several  notes which indicate 
the potential consequences of changing  his pension company  were  highlighted and 
explained to Mr W.
She also considered  the notes made later in 1993 when Mr W complained in which Phoenix 
expressed the view that the adviser  hadnt  suggested Mr W stop his old policy with X. It 
suggested a transfer of another  pension was discussed, but when X explained  this wasnt  
possible Mr W was instead advised to take out an additional pension  plan.
Having considered all the documentation she believed the point of sale paperwork supported 
the view that Mr W was likely to have  been advised to stop his contributions  to the 1987  
pension with X. She referred to the fact find which included the following:
are any existing policies going  to be cancelled or allowed to lapse as a result  of the advice 
or comments made above? If yes, a replacement questionnaire must be completed.  The 
box next to Yes has been ticked.  She thought this suggested the adviser at the time would 
have been aware  that Mr Ws existing  policy  would  be allowed to lapse.
Ref: DRN87394492She noted the replacement policy questionnaire showed the adviser  had told Mr W about the 
costs involved and consequences of starting  a new policy. The record notes that despite the 
explanation provided Mr W still wanted to change.
The sale was made on an advised  basis and the documents also indicate the representative  
knew that Mr Ws previous policies would be allowed to lapse. So, as part of the sale,  in 
addition to ensuring that Mr W was given all the information he needed to make an informed 
choice, she thought the adviser should have made  a suitable recommendation and she 
couldnt see that he did.
Her view was that the adviser should have been  aware that the 1987  pension with X had a 
GAR attached to it and, unless Phoenix Life was able to match this benefit, she didnt think  it 
was suitable advice to take out the new pension policy knowing that his previous plan would 
be allowed to lapse.  If Mr W had been made  aware  of this potential  loss of the GAR she 
didnt believe he would  have  stopped  his contributions.
She concluded that he had been given unsuitable  advice. Phoenix  didnt agree and 
wondered why the complaint hadnt been  time barred due to Mr Ws previous complaint in 
1993. The investigator explained that Phoenix had accepted it was within  our jurisdiction  and 
in any event the 1993 complaint was about  fees and not about the loss of the GAR.
It also said Mr Ws letters of complaint  only referred  to the 1989 policy  with X and this 
showed the adviser was unaware  of the 1987  policy. The investigator referred to the 
application form in which both the policies  with X were recorded. She said it was clear that 
the adviser had been told about  both policies. Phoenix asked that the matter be referred  to 
an ombudsman without  adding any further  information or argument.
The investigator sought clarification from X as to the terms of Mr Ws pension.  It said that he 
was entitled to take the GAR from the age of 55 to 75. Mr W had told us that at one point he 
had been looking into taking his pension  in 2016  He turned 57 in June 2016. At the time 
she issued her opinion  Mr W was 59 and she took the view that the redress should  be 
calculated based  on that age.
I issued a decision which agreed with the investigators conclusions  and upheld the 
complaint. I also said the redress  should  be calculated  as if Mr W had taken his pension  at 
age 59. Subsequently X notified Mr W that although he could take his pension at age 59 the 
GAR didnt  come into effect  until he reached 60. He asked that I reconsider my decision.
Phoenix also identified  the issue when it tried to calculate the redress  and asked for our 
advice as to how to proceed.
A decision made by an ombudsman is normally  the final stage of our process.  The 
circumstances in which we can reconsider a complaint are extremely limited. We may,  
however, consider the matter afresh if material new evidence subsequently  becomes 
available which the ombudsman considers likely  to affect the outcome. I am satisfied that the 
new evidence is material and affects the outcome.
All parties,  me included, relied on the information  given  by X which turned out to be wrong. 
This error only came to light after the decision was issued and therefore I have concluded 
that it is right that I issue this new decision.  I have notified both parties and neither has 
objected. However,  I have  decided to issue this as a provisional decision to allow both 
parties final opportunity  to comment, before the matter is finalised.
Ref: DRN87394493I issued provisional  decision as follows:
I explained that the rationale for my original decision remained unchanged  and was as 
follows:
I could see from reading  the documentation  from the point of sale and the 1993 complaint 
that the adviser apparently hadnt heard of X which is a well know company. However, that 
shouldnt have prevented him from undertaking some research and establishing the terms of 
the policies held by Mr W before  providing  advice. It may be that Mr W was unhappy with X, 
but when giving advice the adviser should have explored the matter more  fully to see if his 
recommendation was to his clients benefit.
I said that if he had done  so he would  have identified that the policy with X had a GAR and 
the replacement  policy he sold was not as beneficial.  I note that Phoenix say that Mr W 
wasnt advised to stop the 1987 policy, but the paperwork indicated otherwise. The reference 
to the old policies being cancelled or lapsed  as set out above made it clear that the adviser 
was aware the Phoenix policy was taken out to replace the ones with X. As the Phoenix 
policy wouldnt be able to match the GAR  offered by X it was incumbent on him to advise Mr 
W accordingly.
I had taken into account the manuscript  note made by the adviser which  reads: I have  made 
the client aware of the costs involved and consequences of starting a new policy  but client 
still wishes to change.  This brief note doesnt make clear that Mr W was made fully aware of 
the consequences of losing the GAR and I wasnt persuaded  that he was so advised.
Therefore, I remained of the view this complaint  should be upheld. The remaining issue was 
the calculation  of the redress. The key to the complaint was the loss of the GAR  and the 
original redress calculation, was based  on Mr W taking his pension  at age 59 which  we now 
know wouldnt have triggered  the GAR. I sought clarification from X about the pension as it 
had indicated that Mr W could take it annually in arrears. It confirmed that Mr W can choose  
to have the pension paid annually, annually in arrears, or monthly.
Mr W will benefit from the GAR on the old pension which he stopped in 1993  when he 
opened the pension with Phoenix. However,  he will not benefit from a GAR on the second 
pension he took up with X after realising  it had been  a mistake to move  to Phoenix.  
Unfortunately he wasnt  able to reinstate the old policy and he had to take out a new one 
without a GAR.
I also asked Mr W about his plans  and intentions. His wife explained that originally  it was 
intended that he retire at age 65 and take his pension.  However,  he has developed a 
medical condition  which restricts  his ability to work and he plans  to take his pension earlier.  
He said he intended  to take the pension from age 60 and benefit from the GAR. From the 
outset of the complaint Mr W has made it clear that his concern was the loss of the GAR and 
this supports my conclusion that his intention  had always  been to only begin his pension  
when the GAR was available  i.e. at age 60 or later.
I considered the redress should be such that it put Mr W back  in the position  he would have 
been in had he not stopped paying  into the 1987 policy with X. To that end I said it should 
reflect the loss of the GAR, but also take into account the replacement  policy  with X. This 
means that Phoenix  Life would need  to establish what  Mr W would have obtained  had he 
kept the original  policy  with X and retired at age 60 compared with what he will obtain from 
Ref: DRN87394494the original policy and the replacement one taken out in 1993. This needed to take into 
account that the premium on the original  policy was £ 31 and the replacement policy was 
£55 at the onset  and later increased.
I suggested that Phoenix should compensate Mr W as follows:
A. Obtain the notional  value of pension ending in 066 had Mr W continued  paying  £31 per 
month to age 60.
B. From this notional value Phoenix Life should  deduct the paid-up value of policy 066 as at 
the same  point and the paid-up value  of the replacement policy ending in 047 for the same  
£31 a month.
C. The impact of the loss of the GAR should then be calculated  by multiplying the result from 
B by the applicable GAR rate divided by the current annuity rate (GAR) arranged  on the 
same basis.
D. As Mr W would have  paid income tax on the annuity, the impact  of the loss of the GAR 
should be reduced by 20% to notionally allow for basic rate income  tax.
E. The resulting  amount should then be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum.
Mrs W, acting  on her husbands behalf, accepted points  A and B, but queried  C. She said 
this would only bring in the notional value of the pot under the original  pension  to what it 
would have been under  the policy ending in 066. She also said that Mr W was no longer 
liable to tax as his income  had fallen. She also asked to see Phoenixs calculations  before  
accepting the decision. Phoenix  asked for assistance in calculating  the proposed  redress as 
it was unable to obtain the relevant information  from X.
I asked Mr W for evidence  of his tax positon and he supplied this so I am satisfied that 
Phoenix need not deduct tax at 20% as per my provisional decision. I also explained that the 
intention of my proposed  redress  was to put Mr W back in the position he would have been 
in had he retained the original policy and paid in £31 a month.  More  recently  Mrs W noted 
that the proposed redress above differed from the original  decision in that it didnt take into 
account policy 066. 
I asked Phoenix if it was able to calculate the redress given the issues it had faced 
previously. Phoenix  said it was waiting for information from X which  it didnt believe it could 
provide as it no longer offered standard annuities.
We chased X for the notional  value  of the policy and after a considerable amount of time and 
effort it said that the notional value for policy 066 as at June 2019 if all premiums  had been 
paid up to date was £73,744.42. Phoenix then said that it needed the paid up value for 047. 
We asked X for this. It told us that policy 047 had a paid up value of £50,597.25  as at 3 June 
2019 assuming  payment of £31 a month had been made. X also informed Mr and Mrs W 
that the current annuity rate would  have been 4.19827. This information was shared  with 
Phoenix. I suggested  it might wish to carry out the calculation in advance  of the final 
decision, but it said that it needed yet further information. It said that it didnt have the paid 
up value for 066 as of June 2019  although it did have  that value for 2018.  We spoke  with X 
which said that it should be able to provide Phoenix with the required information.
Ref: DRN87394495My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has been a tortuous  process to try and ensure Phoenix had the information to make  the 
necessary redress calculation and Mr and Mrs W have  my sympathy for the delays. 
Normally this service would  set out the redress formula  and the responsibility  for making  the 
calculation would lie with the business. However,  in this case  I deemed it best if I deferred a 
final decision  until I had reason to believe that Phoenix could carry out my directions. In an 
ideal world Phoenix would have let me see its calculations, but I cannot  require it to do so 
and I see no merit in delaying this decision any longer.
In summary  if Mr W hadnt been  persuaded to stop the 1987 policy number 066 which  
carried a GAR he would have benefitted from a better pension  that the one he took out with 
X in 1993,  number  047 which didnt have a GAR. It is only right that he be put back in the 
positon he would have been had he carried  on with policy 066 at £31 a month.  To that end 
my redress  is, in essence, based on calculating what  that would have been and deducting 
the existing benefits he gets from the 1993 policy number  047 and the first few years  of the 
066 policy  which retained the GAR. That is the reason  my final decision varies from that 
issued in November  2018.
As such I dont consider  my redress formula needs to be changed  save for the fact Phoenix 
need not deduct tax. I consider it should have sufficient information to make  the calculation  
without further  delay. I have decided to make one further addition  in the form of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  suffered  by Mr W. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Phoenix Life Limited to 
compensate Mr W as follows:
A. Obtain the notional  value of pension ending in 066 had Mr W continued  paying  £31 per 
month to age 60.
B. From this notional value Phoenix Life should  deduct the paid-up value of policy 066 as at 
the same  point and the paid-up value  of the replacement policy ending in 047 for the same  
£31 a month.
C. The impact of the loss of the GAR should then be calculated  by multiplying the result from 
B by the applicable GAR rate divided by the current annuity rate arranged  on the same 
basis.
E. The resulting  amount should then be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum without 
deduction of tax.
It should also pay Mr W £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before  13 March 2020.
Ref: DRN87394496Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8739449