K822xcomplaint
Miss K is unhappy with what  Financial Insurance Company Limited (Financial Insurance) 
has offered to put things right following her complaint  about  payment protection insurance 
(PPI).
background 
In March 1988, Miss K applied for a store card. At the same time, PPI was added  to the 
account. Miss K thinks the policy was mis-sold. 
Financial Insurance  didnt  sell Miss K the PPI policy  Financial Insurance  was the insurer. 
But in this case it has been agreed that Financial Insurance, as the insurer,  take 
responsibility for the complaint.  So Ill be referring to Financial Insurance  throughout my 
decision. 
Financial Insurance  looked at the complaint  and thought it should  be upheld. It offered  to pay 
Miss K £288.21.
Miss K didnt think this was right. 
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought the way the business had worked out the 
offer was fair. Miss K did not agree with the adjudicator. She thought  how hed explained the 
offer was inconsistent with the information  shed already sent us. 
The adjudicator then went back to Financial Insurance for more information  about how it 
worked out the offer. Because of how long ago Miss K had bought  the policy,  Financial  
Insurance didnt  have  all the information  it needed to work out the compensation. So it had 
used assumptions about  how Miss K had used  the card before 2005. But when  it took into 
account the information Miss K had sent them, together with the other information it had, it 
increased its offer to £483.95.
The adjudicator put this new offer to Miss K. But she didnt accept it. Shes concerned about 
the contradictory information  shes been given about the offers.  She wants more details of 
the offer. And she thinks that because it originally offered her less, even though  shed 
already sent it the information its now relied on, Financial Insurance  has treated her unfairly.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 November  2018.
In my provisional decision I explained  that Id considered all the available  evidence  and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. As 
Financial Insurance  agreed Miss K shouldnt have been sold the policy,  I looked at whether  
what theyd offered was fair.
I said that as Financial Insurance had added  the cost of the policy to a store  card, I expected  
it to remove any PPI premiums, as well as any interest charged on those premiums. It also 
needed to remove  any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any 
interest added  to those  charges. And if Miss K paid more than she needed to clear her 
balance, Id expect  Financial Insurance to add interest to compensate her for the time shes  
been out of pocket. Id also expect Financial Insurance to add interest  from when Miss K 
repaid the store card until she gets the money back.
Ref: DRN80300712Because of the time that had passed,  Financial Insurance didnt have full information about  
Miss Ks account. In particular, it didnt have full details  of the spending  and charges to the 
account each  month.  But Miss K had sent us statements, and Financial Insurance had used 
these, together  with the information  it does hold, to work out what it needed to pay Miss K.
Financial Insurance  had sent us information  showing the total PPI premiums  charged to 
Miss Ks account. This showed  that from 1988  until the account closed in 2004  Miss K was 
charged £102.45 in premiums.  
Based on the statements Miss K has sent us, the PPI was at first charged to the account 
annually  the earliest statements say the PPI cost 85p for every  £1 of the agreed 
repayment, or £8.50 a year. Financial Insurance assumed this increased  to 95p (or £9.50 a 
year) from 1991  to 1998.  From this point onwards, Financial Insurance  said it charged for 
the PPI monthly.  The premiums included in Financial Insurances  latest  offer add together  to 
the £102.45 total premiums shown in its records.
As the PPI was charged  to a store card, Financial Insurance also needed  to refund the 
historic interest that was caused by these  premiums. Financial Insurance worked this out to 
be £105.64. The lender had sent us details of how much interest was charged to the account  
in total, including interest on purchases on the card  it said that between  1988 and 2004 it 
charged £135.52 in interest. So in removing the PPI, Financial Insurance  also removed most 
of the interest  charged to the account.  I said I thought  the amount Financial Insurance had 
worked out is more  than fair.
I said that if the PPI meant Miss K paid more to the card than she owed, Financial Insurance  
needed to add interest to this amount  the rate of interest is 15% until April 1993 and 8% 
after then  to compensate Miss K for the time shed  been out of pocket. At the point it 
prepared its latest  offer, Financial Insurance had worked this out to be £275.86  after tax. 
Miss K had suggested  that Financial Insurance should pay interest at 15% on all the 
premiums it charged before April 1993. But I said Id only expect Financial Insurance to do 
this if her payments  would have repaid the account  in full if she hadnt had the PPI. The cost 
of the PPI during this period was just £8.50 or £9.50  a year,  and based  on what Miss K spent  
on her card during the period we do have statements, I didnt think shed have repaid the 
account in full until after then.
Miss K had also asked  if the offer includes compensation  for any commission  that had been  
earned. I said that as the offer includes a full refund of the premiums  charged to the account, 
this means the amount also includes any commission that was included in those premiums.
I also considered Miss Ks other  comments.  She was unhappy  that Financial Insurance had 
taken so long to work out this offer. I said that this delay would, though,  be taken into 
account by the simple  interest Financial Insurance  had to pay for the time Miss K has been 
out of pocket. And given the limited  information that is available, I could see why the 
calculation in this case was more complicated.
For those reasons, I thought that the way Financial Insurance now wanted to work out what  
it needs to pay Miss K was fair.
Financial Insurance  did not reply to my provisional  decision. Miss K didnt  agree  with my 
provisional findings. In particular:
Ref: DRN80300713she says Financial  Insurance already  held the information it needed to work  out her 
offer,
she says the amount  of interest Financial Insurance has refunded  further shows  the 
worthlessness and expense of the policy
she says she could  have repaid  the account  in full before April 1993   she paid for 
the account by standing  order, and this sometimes meant she paid more  than she 
owed. This means she should  get more  compensation  for the time shes been  out of 
pocket.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Miss K for her further comments, which I have noted.
I see Miss K feels very strongly that Financial Insurance treated her unfairly by selling her 
the policy. She mentions the expense  and worthlessness of the PPI, and says she had 
absolutely no need for the PPI policy.
But this doesnt  change what Financial Insurance needs to do to put things right.  
Where a complaint  about the sale of PPI is upheld, I expect the business to put the 
consumer in the financial position  theyd  be in if they hadnt bought the policy.  This is what  
Financial Insurance  has offered to do. Both Miss K and Financial  Insurance agree that she 
shouldnt have been sold the policy. So in this decision Ive looked at whether what 
Financial Insurance  has now offered is fair.
The cost of the policy was added to a store card. So Miss K repaid the cost of the policy, 
with interest, in line with the terms and conditions of the card. 
Financial Insurances offer includes the premiums it charged Miss K for PPI. This was 
£102.45. It assumed  Miss K paid £8.50 a year until 1991, £9.50  a year up to and including  
August 1998,  and a further  95p in premiums between 1998  and 2001.  Financial Insurance  
says the final charge  for PPI on the account  was 8 pence in January 2001. The amount 
Financial Insurance  has refunded in premiums  matches the amount it says it charged for the 
PPI over the lifetime of the policy. So I think this part of Financial Insurances offer is fair.
As the cost of the PPI was charged  to Miss Ks store card account, she would have paid 
interest on this amount.  Financial Insurance says that Miss K spent £1,507.10 on her card in 
total, and was charged £135.52 in interest in total. The way it spread the cost of the PPI over 
the life of Miss Ks card means she gets £105.64  of this interest back.
Ive looked at how Financial Insurance did this. Given the limited information  
Financial Insurance  has about the way Miss K used her card, I think  this is fair. The PPI was 
only a small part of what she bought using the card, but the way Financial Insurance has 
worked out the refund means that she gets back over three  quarters of the interest ever 
charged. This is because without the PPI Financial Insurance assumes Miss K eventually 
repays the card in full, and from that point onwards gets back all the interest charged to the 
account.
Ref: DRN80300714I recognise that if Financial Insurance changes its assumptions about how Miss K used the 
card she might get a different amount. She might get more   but she also might get less. 
Because neither Miss K nor Financial  Insurance has a full set of statements, I think  
spreading the interest, insurance  and spend  evenly over the time Financial  Insurance  
doesnt have information is a reasonable way for Financial Insurance to work out what it 
needs to pay.
Similarly, Miss K says its possible  that without the PPI she would have  repaid the account in 
full earlier  than when  Financial Insurance assumed she would in its calculation. Shes told us 
she paid £10 towards the account each month by standing order   and this is the payment 
Financial Insurance  used  when it worked out Miss Ks compensation. Financial  Insurance 
knows the total Miss K spent on the card, though,  and it spread this equally over the period it 
doesnt have statement  information. Miss K does eventually repay  the account in full, and 
when that happens she gets simple interest  (the rate is 8%) on the extra she paid to 
compensate her for the time she was out of pocket. Of course, if Miss K used  her card 
differently then that will affect this part of the calculation.  But again, because  we dont have 
statements I cant say that what Financial Insurance has done here is unfair.
For the reasons  above, I think Financial Insurance has fairly  worked  out the premiums, the 
store card interest it charged on those  premiums, and the amount it needs to pay Miss K to 
compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket.
Ive taken into account Miss Ks further comments about the way this complaint has been 
handled. I agree that she sent her statements to Financial Insurance before she referred the 
complaint to us. And I recognise  it took both Financial Insurance a while to work out what 
needed to be done. But the delay will be taken into account by the compensation Miss K 
gets for the time shes been out of pocket  and if Miss K accepts this decision I expect 
Financial Insurance  to recalculate this to bring  it up to date.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think the way Financial Insurance Company Limited now propose  to 
compensate Miss K is fair. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  bring its offer up to date and then pay Miss K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8030071