K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 2002.
Although the policy was sold by another business, FICL has accepted  responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint.  So Ive referred  to FICL during this decision.
background
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  FICL  disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case. 
Having done so I am upholding  Mrs Bs complaint.
The policy sold to Mrs B contained an exclusion meaning Mrs B wouldnt have been able to 
make a claim for time off work due to a medical condition that had already been diagnosed.
I dont think FICL made this important exclusion clear to Mrs B when she was sold the policy.
I think this would have  made a difference to Mrs B as shes  told us she had a pre-existing 
medical condition  in 2002. 
Mrs B has told us she was diagnosed  with the medical condition  in childhood. And Mrs B has 
told us she took two types of medicine for the medical condition.  So I think Mrs B would think  
her medical condition to be one of the more  likely  reasons she may need to take time off 
work in the future.
FICL has questioned  if Mrs B had previously taken time off work due to her medical  
condition. But the point of insurance is to guard against future risk. Even if Mrs B had not 
taken time off work  in the past Id still uphold this complaint as the insurance was to protect  
her payments in case she needed  to take time off going forward.  If she had not taken time 
off work before, it wouldnt  be a reason not to uphold her complaint.  And if Mrs B had taken 
time off work that would  be more reason  to think the complaint should be upheld.
I dont think Mrs B wouldve  bought  the policy if FICL  had made her aware of the exclusion 
for pre-existing medical conditions.  
what FICL must do to put things right 
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B wouldve owed when the account was closed if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN81093942So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she closed the 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B would have 
owed when she closed the account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs B 
paid more than enough  to clear  the balance, FICL should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on the credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give    
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Financial Insurance  Company Limited to pay Mrs B 
compensation as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8109394