K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about Evolution Insurance Company Limiteds  decision to decline his claim
for roadside  assistance  under his motor vehicle breakdown insurance policy.
background 
Mr H had motor vehicle  breakdown insurance  with Evolution.  In April 2018, he made  a claim 
for roadside  assistance  while  he was on holiday abroad. He reported  that a low coolant 
warning light had come on and smoke was coming  from the engine.  Mr H was told the claim 
wouldnt be covered  because he had no MOT certificate. He told Evolution the MOT didnt 
expire until July 2018, and the car had been serviced eight  days  prior. But it maintained  the 
claim would be declined  because hed failed to properly maintain the car.
Mr H suggested he could  pay upfront for roadside assistance and be refunded if it was later 
found that the he hadnt been maintaining the car. But Evolution refused. Instead it told him 
to seek private recovery and provide evidence that he had a valid MOT  certificate, so it could 
reimburse the recovery costs.
Mr H drove  the car to the next town to be repaired.  The garage  diagnosed a failed water 
pump, timing  belt and a blown head gasket and said it would take a week  to fix. So he cut 
short his holiday and returned home  to the UK.
He later complained  to Evolution. He argued  it was possible that low coolant was caused by 
a mechanical failure and as hed been  unable to have the car recovered,  hed had no other 
choice other  than to drive  the car, resulting in further  damage.  He argued the repairs were 
consistent with the car having been driven without  coolant and that, if hed been  given 
roadside assistance, the car could have  been  repaired  much faster  and he wouldnt have 
had to cut short his holiday.
He told Evolution he wanted it to pay the value of the car (which was still at the garage),  
reimburse the money hed spent on a hire car and on getting home and compensate  him for 
loss of enjoyment of his holiday. He said he also wanted compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed suffered as a result of its decision  not to provide roadside assistance.
Evolution apologised for any loss or distress Mr H had experienced. And it stated that as 
hed given it evidence  that hed been looking after the vehicle, it would pay him £75 towards 
car rental and additional travel costs. It said it wouldnt  pay the other costs because  they 
werent covered  under  the policy.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. Our investigator recommended  
that the complaint should be upheld in part, but Mr H asked for his complaint  to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman because he wasnt satisfied with his recommendations. He questioned 
whether Evolution  had shown the DVLA website  had showed he didnt have an up to date 
MOT certificate,  as it was correct when hed looked  online. And he didnt accept he was told 
to seek private recovery and to keep  all invoices, stating he asked it for a call recording,  but 
didnt receive a response. He said he believed our investigator had accepted  Evolutions  
account of what  happened during the call based  on transcribed notes, and that this was 
contrary to our guidance.
He also argued  that, even  if he was told to seek private recovery,  this shouldnt apply to 
customers in countries where  they do not speak the language,  and he pointed out there are 
Ref: DRN85257152many negative reviews about  Evolution  on the internet. He said he didnt accept the 
responsibility and risk for driving to the garage was his and maintains the incorrect rejection 
of his claim left him with no option  but to drive. This is because he doesnt speak French  and 
had no way to secure  a private tow to a garage.
He said hed done research on the internet  which established that the effect of driving a car 
with low or no coolant is consistent with the damage to his car and he challenged our 
investigators conclusion  that the journey to the garage didnt  make  the damage  worse. He 
maintained the car underwent a full service  in March 2018, and therefore our investigators 
conclusion that there  was clearly some pre-existing engine or coolant issues is 
unreasonable, arguing it was more likely that serious damage was done as a result of driving 
the car without coolant.
my provisional findings
I was initially satisfied  the car did have a valid MOT certificate and therefore the decision to 
decline the claim was based on inaccurate information. Evolution  hadnt provided evidence  
(for example a screenshot)  to show the source of the information, but I was satisfied the 
DVLA record was inaccurate  and had been  relied  on in good  faith.
I noted Evolution eventually accepted Mr H had been looking after the car and that it had 
agreed to make a payment of £75 towards  alternative travel costs. I was satisfied  this 
response was reasonable and that it constituted  a fair settlement that was in accordance 
with the policy limit for alternative travel.
I felt that, other than some comments about  information hed found on the internet, Mr H 
hadnt produced  any expert evidence about whether  continuing to drive the car actually did 
damage it further, or which  aspects of the damage werent already present when he first 
made the claim. And I was satisfied the call note represented a contemporaneous record  of 
what was discussed  during the claim call, explaining  that in the absence of a record  to the 
contrary, I was satisfied Mr H was told to seek private recovery,  and had acted against  this 
advice.
I considered the decision  to drive the car was Mr Hs choice in circumstances where he 
couldve had the car recovered. And, critically, even  if the claim had been  covered, Evolution 
wouldnt have had to pay any repair and labour costs other than those incurred  at the 
roadside. Therefore  I was satisfied that Evolutions  decision  not to reimburse  him for any of 
the repair costs  was fair.
While I accepted Mr H did incur costs resulting from the problem with his car, I wasnt  
satisfied Evolution was responsible for those  costs. Id found its original decision to decline 
the claim was reasonable and so I didnt  think it was responsible for any losses  that flowed 
from that. Especially as I was satisfied  most  of the losses were due to problems  with the car 
and not because of the way the claim was handled.
Our investigator had recommended that in addition to the £75 Evolution  had already offered 
to pay for car rental and travel costs, it should also pay Mr H £400  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  he experienced  as a result of its failings. I disagreed.  I said I had no doubt 
that this was a very traumatic experience for Mr H, but I was satisfied the claim was fairly 
declined, and I didnt  intend to make  it pay any more than it had already offered.
Ref: DRN85257153my further  provisional  findings
I changed my position following some  further comments  Mr H made in response to my 
provisional decision.
I said I understood he felt online reviews  about Evolution showed it was acting in bad faith, 
but I didnt think  they were  relevant  to this complaint as they werent related to his claim.
Id previously accepted  Evolutions account  that, when Mr H made  the claim, the DVLA 
website showed  there  was no MOT.  But I reviewed my position on the point. Mr H had 
provided evidence  that the MOT certificate  was logged with the DVLA and, crucially, 
Evolution hadnt produced any evidence about  the information it relied on to decline the 
claim. Mr H had made the claim nine months  after the last MOT certificate was issued, and I 
thought it was unlikely the information on the DVLA website  was wrong that far into the MOT  
year. Because of this, I said I wasnt satisfied Evolution had shown the exclusion was fairly 
applied.
Evolution had said that even  if there  hadnt been  an issue with the MOT,  the claim would 
have still been  excluded. But I didnt think I needed  to make a finding  on that. This was 
because even if I accepted Evolution should  have recovered Mr H, I didnt think  it was 
responsible for all the costs he was claiming.  
Id previously accepted  Mr H had driven to the next garage despite having  been told to seek 
private recovery. In my provisional  decision, Id commented that Evolution had failed to 
provide a call recording,  and because  of this Id relied on a call note in my assessment of 
what was said during the call. Mr H had then queried why the onus was on him to provide 
evidence of what was said during  the call, and I clarified the onus was never on him to 
record the call. But I was satisfied that, based  on the content of the call note, on balance, it 
was most likely that Evolution  did tell him to seek roadside recovery.
Mr H had also asked how he could reasonably show that the car suffered more damage as a 
result of having been driven to the garage. But having reviewed my position, I no longer 
thought that was relevant.  Hed said hed had no choice other than to drive to the next 
garage, but I didnt accept that was his only option as he could have sought private roadside 
assistance. And I was satisfied that, in driving the car after having  been so concerned that 
hed contacted Evolution, Mr H had taken a risk that might foreseeably  have resulted in more 
damage to the car and for which Evolution  couldnt  fairly be held responsible.
I said the policy provided cover for roadside  repairs  and recovery,  none of which Mr H was 
claiming for, and while I wasnt satisfied  the claim was fairly excluded in the first instance,  I 
didnt think Evolution  could fairly be held responsible  for the costs and expenses Mr H 
subsequently incurred.
However, I acknowledged the confusion  caused  by Evolutions handling of the claim had 
meant Mr H has suffered unnecessary distress and inconvenience and for this I said I was 
minded to direct it to pay Mr H £250  compensation.
developments
The business hasnt  raised any objections to the findings in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN85257154But Mr H has responded to say he believes my finding that the exclusion  wasnt fairly applied  
brings into question  the credibility of Evolutions  entire account.  He maintains he couldnt 
have sought private  roadside assistance  because he was in a foreign country and didnt 
speak the language, and he questions what other  options he had. He reiterates that hed 
ensured the readiness of his car by undertaking a full service  in advance of the trip and 
argues there was nothing further  he could  have done to prepare for the journey. 
Mr H accepts that driving the car might  foreseeably  have resulted in more  damage to the 
car, but he wants to know what  else he could reasonably have done that wouldnt have put 
his family  at risk.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I accept my conclusion that its unlikely  the information on the DVLA  website  was wrong  is 
relevant to the issue of Evolutions  credibility. But other than my finding on the issue of what 
was discussed  during  the claim call (which was based on the content of the call note), 
Evolutions credibility isnt relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
Ive previously said I dont  accept Mr H had no option other  than to drive the car to the 
nearest garage. I maintain that, despite  the fact he was in a foreign country, the option of 
attempting to seek roadside assistance had been a reasonable option  and one that wouldnt 
have presented a risk to his family. 
I understand Mr H will be disappointed  but my final decision  will be the same  as my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Evolution Insurance Company Limited  to pay Mr H 
£250 compensation for the way its handled  this claim. The compensation is to be paid within 
28 days of the date on which we tell Evolution Insurance  Company  Limited  Mr H accepts my 
final decision  (if he does).  If it pays later than this then interest*  will have to be added to the 
unpaid amount from the date of my final decision until settlement is made.
* HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Evolution  Insurance Company Limited to take off tax 
from this interest. Evolution  Insurance  Company  Limited must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one. He may then be able to reclaim the 
tax from the tax authorities  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8525715