K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1998.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Bs credit  card account  when she applied for the card by post.
 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Barclaycard disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my conclusions on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think Barclaycard gave her clear 
enough information about the policy. I say this because the Barclaycard  has told us the 
policy Mrs B bought included an exclusion for existing medical conditions which said:
We will not pay you Disability benefit  for any claim that is the result  of:
 any sickness, disease,  condition  or injury  which  you know about or which you asked 
about or received advice, treatment or counselling for from any Doctor, during the 12 
months immediately before the Starting Date;
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs B because at the point of sale she had a medical  
condition which wouldnt have been covered by the policy. So she couldnt have claimed on 
the policy for everything she expected  to be covered.
Barclaycard considers Mrs B should  provide  further information and evidence  of the 
condition and the treatment she received. But Mrs Bs testimony has been consistent  since 
the start of her complaint.  And given the amount of time thats  passed  since the policy  was 
sold, I dont think its fair to expect her to provide the evidence Barclaycard is seeking.  I think  
its reasonable to accept  what  Mrs B has told me about her health  issue.
Barclaycard also considers it gave Mrs B enough information at the point  of sale or shortly  
afterwards, to make her aware  that her medical  condition might not be covered by the policy.  
But Barclaycard hasnt been able to confirm exactly what paperwork Mrs B was given when  
the policy was sold. 
Barclaycard has provided a policy document it says was provided with a different credit card. 
It says the same policy was provided  with the credit card Mrs B applied  for.
Ref: DRN88055242But even if I accepted that Mrs B was given the same policy  wording as Barclaycard has 
provided, Im not persuaded that it wouldve been immediately obvious to her that she might 
not be covered  in connection with her medical condition. The exclusion is set out in the 
middle of the policy summary, which was produced in relatively small, closely-set type.
So I havent been able to safely conclude that the exclusion  that affected  Mrs B was properly 
brought to her attention  when she agreed  to buy the PPI.
I dont think Mrs B would  have bought the policy if shed had enough  information  about it. So, 
I think Mrs B has lost out because of what the business did wrong.  
what Barclaycard should do to put things right 
Barclaycard should  put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Barclaycard should find out how much Mrs B would owe on her credit card if the policy  
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclaycard should  then refund the difference between what  Mrs B owes and what she 
would have owed.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclaycard can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
Barclaycard can also take off any Plevin  commission it has already  paid to Mrs Bs IP 
from the amount  it owes her.
B.If  when Barclaycard  works out what Mrs B would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs B paid more than enough  to clear her balance, Barclaycard should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs B paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs B wouldve  owed Barclaycard something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.Barclaycard should tell Mrs B what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. Barclaycard 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Ref: DRN88055243my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Subject to my comments below, I direct Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) to pay compensation to Mrs B in line with the 
instructions above.
I understand that Mrs B is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and that her 
Insolvency Practitioner  (IP) has expressed an interest in any PPI refund she might receive. 
Mrs Bs representative has told us that any redress  should be paid directly  to Mrs Bs IP.
Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) should liaise with Mrs Bs IP to ensure  the 
compensation is paid to the correct person.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8805524