K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about Arval UK Limited  (AUK)  not assisting him with the repair costs 
when the van he had hired  under a hire agreement needed a new engine.
Background
Mr D entered into a 24 month hire agreement with AUK in August 2016 to hire a van. 
Shortly before the end of the lease  the van broke down.
Mr D said that the repairing garage contacted him about the log book / service book but 
he explained  he had never received this. He said he was then told the van had broken 
down due to a lack of servicing and so he was responsible for the cost of repairs. Mr D 
said that he wasnt contacted about servicing the van and this wasnt  mentioned when  he 
was contacted about the excess mileage. He said his agreement didnt include the 
manufacturers servicing guide. 
Mr D said that it took time for the van to be collected and be assessed during which time 
he had to pay for a van he couldnt use. He said he was refused a courtesy vehicle 
because he was a courier. He said that as he wasnt given the information he needed  in 
regard to the servicing schedule  AUK should cover half the cost of the repairs.  He also 
raised concerns  about the age of his van and the insurance  coverage given he was 
using the van for his courier work  which AUK were  aware  of.
AUK said that the delivery receipt that was signed by Mr D showed that all 
manufacturers handbooks and service  records were  delivered  with the van. It said that 
the van was booked in for its 15,000 mile service in July 2017  but Mr D didnt attend this. 
It said he was then sent a message  about  rebooking but this didnt happen. It said that 
under Mr Ds hire agreement he was required to book in the required services and that 
the agreement  set out that it wasnt responsible for damage  resulting  from neglect. It said 
failure to have the van serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations 
constituted neglect.
AUK also confirmed  that the van was a 2014 model  but was manufactured  in 2016. It 
said that it was aware that Mr D was using the van for his courier work and that he would 
have been covered  had a need arose.
Mr D didnt agree that he had been provided with the service  book and log book and said 
the delivery receipt was completed by the dealer and he then signed  it. He also said he 
wasnt contacted  about the service. 
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr D doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons: 
Mr D entered into a hire agreement  for a van in August 2016 and in doing so agreed  to 
the terms and conditions of the agreement.  The agreement sets out that if the vehicle 
requires service, maintenance or repair Mr D is required to contact AUK to arrange this. 
Therefore I find it reasonable that Mr D should have been aware that he would need to 
ensure he contacted  AUK when the van needed  its regular  services.
Ref: DRN82287572Mr D said that he didnt receive the service book or log book. Unfortunately, while I note 
his comments about the delivery  receipt  being  completed for him, as the box saying the 
manufacturers handbook / service  book was in the vehicle has been  ticked  and Mr D 
has signed the document I dont find I can say these werent provided. Had the service  
book not been provided, I would have found it reasonable that Mr D would have asked 
about this at the time of delivery.
In regard to the 15,000 mile service, I can see that a booking  was made and that Mr D 
didnt attend this. Contradictory evidence  has been provided in regard  to this service.  On 
balance, as a booking was made and it contains details of the vehicles mileage and 
further information about the issues to address, I find it more  likely than not that Mr D 
was involved in this process. As the appointment wasnt kept I accept that a re-book 
message would have been sent. However  I can see that Mr D might not have received 
this given the incorrect details held. 
Overall, in regard to the servicing  of the vehicle, I accept that this was Mr Ds 
responsibility and that he should  have been reasonably  aware of this and ensured the 
van was serviced in line with the manufacturers recommendations. This didnt happen 
and so I accept  AUKs comments that this constituted neglect and so Mr D was liable for 
the repair costs  under  the hire agreement  terms.
I have also considered whether the van was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply, 
given the engine failed after 2 years. I note that when the engine failed it had been driven 
over 55,000 miles. The reasons for the failure  were recorded as lack of servicing and I 
understand there was an oil pump  failure and the turbo  seized. Given  the mileage  
covered and lack of servicing I do not find I can say the van wasnt sufficiently durable 
and based on the other information  provided  about the issues  I do not find have 
evidence to suggest the van had inherent  faults that caused the engine failure.  
I accept that the vehicle was manufactured  in 2016 as expected by Mr D and that AUK 
was aware he was using the van for his courier work and that he would  have been  
covered in regard  to this.  
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Arval  UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228757