K822xcomplaint
Mr D says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint is brought  to this service  on Mr Ds behalf by a claims management company. 
But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr D.
background 
This complaint is about a running account  line of credit and four instalment loans Sunny 
provided to Mr D between  August 2014 and May 2015. The line of credit facility was Mr Ds 
first account  with Sunny and is referred to as Loan 1 below. It was repayable  by five monthly 
repayments according to the example schedule in the credit  agreement.  The instalment 
loans were repayable  by six monthly repayments. Loans 3 to 5 havent been repaid. These 
three accounts were  sold to a third party, (T),  in February 2016. Mr Ds borrowing history is 
as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 19/8/14 31/5/15 Credit Limit 
of £750
2. 11/2/15 1/3/15 £300
3. 9/3/15 Unpaid £350
4. 13/4/15 Unpaid £200
5. 31/5/15 Unpaid £350
Sunny said in its final response  letter  that for all the loans it had undertaken eligibility,  
creditworthiness and affordability checks.  It used the information provided by Mr D and the 
credit reference agencies to ensure that the loans could be repaid without undue  difficulty  
over the loan terms. It took into account  Mr Ds income and expenditure including  other 
borrowing and priority debts. The lender also said that the amounts advanced were 
assessed as being affordable over the term of each loan.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 2 to 5 should be upheld. She said that at the time 
of Loan 2, Loan 1 was still outstanding and the fact that Mr D was coming back  to Sunny  for 
further funds when he had an outstanding balance ought to have alerted  Sunny to the 
possibility that Mr D might have been having problems managing his money. And it ought  to 
have realised that it was unlikely  that Mr D would have been able to sustainably  repay 
Loan 2 and any subsequent loans.
Sunny hadnt  provided a response to the adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to review.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to Sunny on 11 March 2020. I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Mr D the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN86244432I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr D could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ds complaint.
Id said that I would have expected Sunny to make proportionate checks when assessing  the 
maximum credit limit on the facility.  Id also have expected Sunny to have  monitored  Mr Ds 
repayment record and taken appropriate  action  where there were signs of possible 
difficulties in line with CONC 6.7.2.
Id noted that Sunny  had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr D. It had asked  him 
for details  of his monthly income. And its affordability document showed that from Loan 2 it 
had information  about Mr Ds credit expenditure. But I couldnt be sure if it had obtained this 
from Mr D or a credit reference agency. It also had information about £50 travel expenditure 
before Loan 2. Mr Ds declared income  before Loan  1 was £1,100, before Loans 2 to 4 it 
Ref: DRN86244433was £1,800 and before Loan 5 it was £2,000. Sunnys affordability document showed  Mr Ds 
credit expenditure ranging from £191 to £435  for Loans 2 to 4. It seemed that these amounts 
were around  the same  amounts as the outstanding Sunny loan balances, so might not have 
included other  credit  expenditure. But the credit expenditure before Loan 5 was shown as 
£1,449 which was substantially more that the Sunny loan balances.
Sunny said that it had also obtained  information from the credit reference agencies  before 
agreeing to the loans. It had provided  us with some information in its affordability  document 
about its checks before Loan 1. It appeared that there wasnt  any adverse information such  
as bankruptcy,  IVAs  or debt management plans. And it seemed there  were  no active short  
term loans. Three short term loan accounts had been opened in the previous six months but 
no short  term loan accounts had been  opened in the previous three months. So overall I 
didnt think that Sunnys  credit checks before Loan  1 should have caused it additional 
concerns.
Wed not received a credit  report from Mr D so I couldnt say there was any information Id 
have seen on his credit report that I thought  should have caused additional concerns to 
Sunny.
Id noted that Mr Ds running account  credit facility  had a maximum credit  limit of £750. If this 
amount was withdrawn, his credit  agreement said it was to be repaid  by five monthly 
payments of around  £258. Id appreciated that Sunny had asked Mr D for his monthly 
income. But as Mr D was committed to repaying  the loan over five months, I didnt think  it 
was reasonable  for Sunny to have relied  on Mr Ds income information.  I thought  it would 
have been proportionate  for it to have  also gathered  information about Mr Ds expenses 
when he first applied  to it for credit. I didnt know what he might have told it at that point. But 
I didnt think a monthly repayment  amount  on his credit facility of around £258 was so large 
that it was obvious it wouldve caused  Mr D financial difficulty. Given  this was his first loan 
with the lender and the lack of information I had from Mr D, in this case  I didnt  find Sunny 
irresponsible to have  agreed to this facility in the first instance. 
Sunny needed  to monitor how Mr D was using  this facility. The table below showed  his 
drawdown history:
Drawdown 
numberDate  
drawdown 
madeAmount (£)
1 19/08/2014 375
2 27/08/2014 100
3 12/12/2014 200
4 19/12/2014 100
I could see that Mr D had repaid  his first repayment late just after hed taken his second 
drawdown. The repayment was around  three  days late. He then missed his second 
repayment which I thought might  have caused Sunny some concerns. But he then repaid his 
next two instalments on the due dates  before  hed taken his third and fourth  drawdowns.  
When Mr D took his fourth drawdown he was near his credit limit. But overall I didnt  think 
that Mr Ds drawdown record should  have suggested to Sunny that he was experiencing 
difficulties.
Ref: DRN86244434Loan 2 was taken out almost six months  after Mr D had begun his credit  facility and around 
two months after his last drawdown, although  the facility balance  had not yet been repaid. 
Mr D had repaid his previous two monthly repayments on the due dates  but there was still a 
balance on his facility  outstanding of around  £448  when  Mr D took out Loan 2. Loan  2 was 
for £300 and he would be potentially indebted  to Sunny for a further six months. 
By the time of Loan 2, I thought Mr Ds borrowing history might have suggested to Sunny 
that he was using short term credit as a supplement to his normal  income, rather than using 
it to meet  a temporary one-off problem, and that his finances were  likely to be under some 
pressure. So I thought the lender ought to have gathered some evidence  to independently 
verify Mr Ds financial situation. And I thought it should have done the same when he applied  
for his later loans. But, I didnt know what Sunny  would have found out, had it carried out 
further checks, because I didnt  have  enough  information about Mr Ds financial 
circumstances to conclude it wouldnt have agreed credit for him at that point.  
That said,  I thought  when Mr D asked for Loan  3 in March 2015 Sunny ought to have  
realised that he wasnt  likely  to be able to repay this loan or any further  credit  sustainably. 
He had been borrowing from Sunny without a break for almost seven months. Mr D had 
repaid Loan 2 early and the loan amount for Loan 3 was his highest since his first drawdown 
and was taken  out just eight days after Loan  2 had been repaid. I thought this might have 
caused Sunny some  concerns and might have suggested to Sunny that it was likely Mr D 
had to borrow further to cover the hole his previous  repayment was leaving in his finances. 
In addition, Mr Ds credit facility was still running  with a balance  of around £360.  And Mr D 
had made  his most recent  payment on it late. This didnt suggest to me that Mr D was 
borrowing to meet a short  term issue and I didnt  think  he was showing signs of getting  to 
grips with his borrowing.  
I thought Mr D lost out when Sunny  agreed  Loan 3 and went on to agree  Loans 4 and 5 
because these loans  prolonged his indebtedness and allowed him to take expensive  credit  
intended for short term use over an extended  period of time. This was likely to be seen 
negatively by other lenders and potentially kept Mr D in the market  for high cost loans. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr D or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  Sunny to put things right as 
set out below. I understood that there  were  outstanding balances on Loans 3 to 5 when Mr D 
brought his complaint to this service which had been  sold to T. I didnt know  if these loans 
remained outstanding  or if Mr D had since repaid them or if theyd been written  off. So my 
proposed redress  had been  drafted with this in mind.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny should  buy back  the debts it sold to T if it is able to do so, so it can carry out these 
directions. If Sunny  isnt able to buy the debts back then Sunny should  liaise  with T to 
achieve the results  outlined  below:  
1.Remove all outstanding interest,  fees and charges  from the balances  on Loans 3 
to 5.
2.Treat any repayments  made  by Mr D towards  Loans 3 to 5 as though they had been 
repayments of the capital sums  borrowed on Loans 3 to 5. 
Ref: DRN862444353.And if this results in Mr D having  made  overpayments of the respective loans then 
refund those overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments, 
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the refunds are 
made.
4.In the event that there are still outstanding  capital balances then a positive and 
sympathetic view should be taken when seeking to agree  an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr D.
       5. If Sunny is unable or unwilling  to take the debts back  into its own books,  it should     
make the refunds  set out in 2. above to Mr D. It needs to ensure Mr D doesnt pay 
any more than the capital balances of the loans and so it might need  to liaise with T 
to achieve that.
    
        6. Remove any information recorded  on Mr Ds credit file with regard  to Loans 3 to 5 
once the capital amounts of these loans  have been repaid (if Sunny buys them back).  
If Loans 3 to 5 have to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist Mr D, so far as it was 
able, to correct his credit  file record once the capital amounts  of the loans have been 
repaid.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax it had taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends 
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting 
the tax.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision to say that he accepted it.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no additional comments to 
make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr D and Sunny have  given me nothing  further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require Sunny to pay Mr D some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, to pay Mr D compensation as 
follows:-
Sunny should  buy back  the debts it sold to T if it is able to do so, so it can carry out these 
directions. If Sunny  isnt able to buy the debts back then Sunny should  liaise  with T to 
achieve the results  outlined  below:  
Ref: DRN862444361.Remove all outstanding interest,  fees and charges  from the balances  on Loans 3 
      to 5.
2.Treat any repayments  made  by Mr D towards  Loans 3 to 5 as though they had 
been repayments of the capital sums borrowed  on Loans 3 to 5. 
3.And if this results in Mr D having  made  overpayments of the respective loans 
then refund those  overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date 
the refunds are made.
4.In the event that there are still outstanding  capital balances then a positive and    
sympathetic view should be taken when seeking to agree  an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr D.
            5. If Sunny is unable or unwilling to take the debts back into its own books, it should      
make the refunds  set out in 2. above to Mr D. It needs to ensure Mr D doesnt pay 
any more than the capital balances of the loans and so it might need  to liaise with T 
to achieve that.
    
            6. Remove any information recorded  on Mr Ds credit file with regard to Loans 3 to 5 
once the capital amounts of these loans  have been repaid (if Sunny buys them back).  
If Loans 3 to 5 have to remain with T, then Sunny is to assist Mr D, so far as it was 
able, to correct his credit  file record once the capital amounts  of the loans have been 
repaid.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax it had taken off if he asks for one. If Sunny intends 
to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must  do so after deducting 
the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before  11  June  2020
.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8624443