K820x#14complaint
Miss O says Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham  & Gloucester, mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss O bought the policy in 1993  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not clear how Miss O applied for her mortgage and PPI policy.  
The policy provided  cover  for Miss O for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £197.51  a month towards  Miss Os 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £17.00 a month. 
At the time,  Miss O was employed as a financial  accountant. She has told us she was 
entitled to six months full sick pay and redundancy pay from her employer. Miss O has said 
she was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in June 2002. 
Miss Os representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Os representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Os 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Miss O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss O and the impact  
they would  have had on she chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss O received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN88078642Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss O disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider having been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Os complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN88078643other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Os case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss O with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss O sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing her attention  to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss O suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss O and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss O know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Due to the length of time since the sale, Lloyds havent been  able to provide copies of the 
actual documentation  that Miss O wouldve seen  at the time of sale.  Ive considered carefully 
what Miss O has said. Ive also considered  how long ago the sale was and that it wouldnt be 
Ref: DRN88078644reasonable to expect  Miss O to recall  every detail from the time of sale. Without  stronger 
evidence to show Lloyds  didnt make Miss O aware the PPI was optional,  I cant fairly uphold  
the complaint  on this point. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss O knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Miss O cant  remember if Lloyds advised her to take out the policy.  Lloyds dont know either,  
but it considered  this as an advised sale as this sets a higher bar on Lloyds to have taken 
additional steps to ensure the policy was suitable for Miss O. So, Ive also considered this as 
an advised sale. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Miss O with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given she needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss O. It seems Miss O cant remember clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Miss Os financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss O would have been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss O had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss O given her circumstances. So, Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss O, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss O met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss O had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Os ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy and sick pay 
benefits she says she would have been  entitled to. And as she was solely 
responsible for the mortgage repayments, I think this type of cover wouldve been  
important for her. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss O.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss O. There  
was nothing about Miss Os employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
Ref: DRN88078645conditions that could affect her ability to claim. There  were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment  it still provided useful cover given Miss Os 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss O was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss O would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Miss O agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss O Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Miss O all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Os representative has raised a 
number of general points with regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Os. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Os representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss O about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Os representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
Ref: DRN88078646think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss O has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Miss O? To what extent  did Miss O 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss O. So, 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss O 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss O 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss O, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss O has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss O would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss O says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss O had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Os circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss O knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told her the exact  premium  at the point 
Miss O applied  for the policy.  Having said that, it seems likely Miss O would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with her expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss O would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
Ref: DRN88078647In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Miss O would get back in 
return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Miss Os 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss O thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which is existing or pending and for which you have consulted or received 
treatment from a doctor during the six months  immediately prior to the start date of 
the policy and which causes Miss O to be off work within  the first six months of the 
policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss O 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss O be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her training, education  or 
ability reasonably  qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss O pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss O from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Os circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss O was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss O wouldve  been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Miss O didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Miss O would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Miss O had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss O was unable (through  disability)  to carry on she 
own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Miss O that any claim  she made would be limited to a 12-month. 
This may have differed  from what she expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months 
Ref: DRN88078648was a longer period than Miss O would have received  full sick pay for and wouldve paid in 
addition to her redundancy pay.  
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss O would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss O be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure she home was not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss O would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Miss O was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss O 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Os representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss O would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Os 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss O 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss O believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss O in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
Ref: DRN88078649circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Miss O compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Miss O thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss O, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1993 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Os representative says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss O and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss O in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8807864