K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that when he added his wife to his car insurance policy, his insurer,  
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited (LV) wanted him to pay an extra charge each 
time. Mr M said he didnt agree with the extra  charges  and that hed only agreed  to renew his 
policy on the basis that he wouldnt have to pay them. He asks that LV honour what  he says 
was their arrangement.
background
Mr Ms policy was due for renewal on 1 May 2018.  He contacted LV and, in an email 
exchange, discussed the particular circumstances of his wife, who holds a US driving  
licence. Under the terms of Mr Ms insurance  policy, LV said she could be added as a driver 
to the policy  for a maximum of six weeks, up to four times a year. LV told us that, under the 
terms of their policy, an administration charge of £15 was payable each time.
But these  charges werent raised in the email discussion. And Mr M said he hadnt realised 
they were applicable every  time he wanted to add his wife to his policy. LV eventually 
accepted that they hadnt been clear with Mr M until June 2018. So, they agreed to waive 
any charges up to that date. LV says that this was done as a gesture  of goodwill. But they 
also said they made clear  to Mr M that, in future, the administration  charge would apply. 
In 2019, Mr M wanted to renew his insurance policy. He said he spoke to a member of LVs 
staff and made clear  he wanted to renew his policy on the same  terms hed been  given in 
2018. This included  not paying an administration fee every time he wanted to add his wife, 
permanently. And he said that hed renewed his policy on this basis.  LV said they told him 
this wasnt possible.  They said that by 2019  Mr M knew thered be a charge every time he 
added his wife to the policy. Mr M disagreed  and complained to LV.
In their final response letter, LV explained  theyd  only waived the charges in 2018 as a 
gesture of goodwill. And they said theyd been  clear that, in the future, Mr M would be 
charged every time he added his wife to his policy in this way. Because of this, LV wouldnt 
waive any more administration charges.
LV also made Mr M an offer. They said that if he could find a policy that suited  him better, 
theyd be happy  to cancel his policy with them  and would  waive  the £40 cancellation charge.
Mr M wants LV to honour what he says was his original agreement  with them.  And to provide  
compensation. Hes suggested that LV should  refund him 50% of the cost of the policy.
In his view of 11 October 2019,  our investigator  said he thought LV had acted reasonably. 
So, he couldnt recommend that they did any more for Mr M. Mr M disagreed and has asked 
for the case to be sent to an ombudsman for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
In cases like this, I need  to look at the terms and conditions of LVs policy.  And also,  what 
Mr M was told and whether hes lost out.
Ref: DRN88086842Policy documentation
LV has said their administration charges are clearly noted on Mr Ms policy documents. 
Because LV agreed not to charge Mr M in 2018/19, those documents  arent really relevant. 
But Ive looked  at the documents  Mr M was sent by LV on several  occasions  in 2019 when 
he renewed. All of these  include the same term and charge. On page two of the renewal 
schedule under What  happens if my policy is cancelled or changed? it states:
We'll make a charge to cover our costs if you: Change  your vehicle or driver  £15.00
But while I agree with LV that the administration charge is included as a standard  term, I 
dont think this wording  is clear. Mr M didnt want to change  his vehicle, or himself as the 
driver, which  is what I think it means  in ordinary English. He just wanted to add a driver (the 
same driver) for a short  period from time to time. So, I think the wording is ambiguous.  And 
should therefore be interpreted in Mr Ms favour, because he didnt draft the term himself 
and cant be expected to know what was in the mind of whoever did. So, I dont think  he 
should have been charged  for adding  his wife on the basis  of this term as it stands.
What Mr M was told in 2018
Ive looked through all the emails and case notes. And I see it was only when Mr M asked LV 
to add his wife to his policy for a period in summer  2018, they told him thered be a charge. 
Mr M was unhappy about this and, the same  day in another email,  he said that the additional 
administration charge hadnt been mentioned. He asked LV to honour their original quote 
without the additional charge.
Twice in June, LV explained that when a policy-holder added  a driver there was a £15 
administration charge. But they agreed to review  Mr Ms concerns. And, after referring the 
question to a manager, LV agreed to waive the charge for adding Mr Ms wife on that 
occasion. But they wrote: We can waive the charge  to add her this time but sadly  we cant  
waive any other times you add her. LVs records confirm charges were waived as a goodwill 
gesture in June  and again in July.
I think from these emails,  it must  have been clear to Mr M that the application  of a charge 
was normal practice. And I think its clear  LV only agreed to waive  their charges as a gesture  
of goodwill.  So, I think Mr M would have  known a charge would apply for adding his wife to 
his policy  in the future. And I think this is what prompted him to call LV prior to renewal in 
May 2019. So that he could renew his policy  but without paying  the charge in the future.
2019
Ive also looked  at LVs case  file of emails between 13 April and 30 May 2019 when Mr M 
contacted them to renew his policy. He told LV his conditions for renewing with them and 
says he negotiated to do this on the same terms as the year before. By this, Mr M meant that 
LV would continue  to waive any charges for adding his wife to his policy from time to time as 
a temporary driver. Hes told us that, in his phone conversation with LV, he specifically 
excluded having  to make  these additional payments. He says LV agreed  to this, and this 
constituted a contract between them.
Mr M clarified his position by email shortly afterwards. In July 2019,  he emailed LV to confirm 
that the inclusion of occasional cover  for his wife had been  already agreed, in effect  
automatically, as part of their agreement  to extend his insurance. But LV responded, saying:  
Ref: DRN88086843If you wish to add [your wife] to your policy with effect from 10th July - 13th August, all terms 
and conditions remain the same. The additional  premium is £15.85  including the £15 admin  
charge.   On 2 August  LV added: These charges apply to all customers  & are stated in the 
terms of your policy.
Ive seen that on three further occasions in August 2019, Mr M emailed LV again. He 
reiterated that hed renewed his 2019 cover  on the same basis as his 2018 cover. That is, 
adding his wife from time to time without payment of an administration  charge.
In October  and November  2019, our investigator  asked  LV to provide  the 2019  call recording 
in which  Mr M renewed his policy along these lines. LV sent a copy of all their recordings but 
these didnt include the particular renewal call from 2019 when Mr M says he specifically 
excluded having  to make  any additional  payments  in future, and LV agreed.  We requested 
these 2019 calls again in March 2020  but LV still wasnt  able to provide this key call.
Mr M must have realised  after 2018 that LV wanted  to make an additional charge. So, I think  
he made this call in order  to orally agree with LV his renewal  on the basis  that he wouldnt 
have to pay the charge in future. I dont  think  it would be fair for LV to agree to this 
arrangement but then go ahead and insist on adding the charge anyway. And because,  
despite our requests, LV hasnt provided  the recording of this key call, in its absence, Im 
prepared to give Mr M the benefit  of the doubt here.
Summary
Although the policy documentation Mr M was sent stated  that a charge was applicable for 
changing the driver  listed under the policy, I dont think  Mr M should have automatically 
known this would be one of the terms of his policy when he only wanted to add his wife 
temporarily in 2018.
But after LV made it clear  that waiving the administration charge  in 2018 was a gesture of 
good will, I think Mr M deliberately telephoned to renew his policy  (rather than just doing so 
online), to ensure the administration  charge  wouldnt be applied  in the future. And Mr M has 
told us this is the agreement he struck in the conversation with LV.
Ideally, Id like to have  listened to this call to satisfy myself exactly  what was said. But, 
having asked  LV to produce  it several times without success, Im prepared to give Mr M the 
benefit of the doubt and go along  with his account.  That being so, I dont think  its fair for LV 
to come to this arrangement then go back on the agreement  and try to claim the 
administration charge. 
So, I think for this reason  they should  waive the fee again for the 2019-20  period.  But, also,  
as the wording of the policy remains ambiguous, I dont  think its fair for LV to rely on it 
anyway.
And, in view of the lengths Mr M has gone to resolve this issue  over a long period of time, I 
also think it would be fair for LV to pay him £100  for his distress  and inconvenience.
Its not clear to me from the file whether  LV were  pursuing Mr M for any money in respect of 
the administration charges  he paid for adding  his wifes name  to his policy or whether he did 
pay. If they were  pursuing him then they shouldnt  do so further. And if Mr M did pay then LV 
should provide  him with a refund of the charges he paid.
Ref: DRN88086844I note LV said that if Mr M wanted  to look for an alternative policy with another insurer,  theyd 
waive his cancellation  charge. While I think this is reasonable, Mr M doesnt want to go with 
another insurer. He wants to continue his policy with LV so I dont think  this is relevant here.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  LV replied with a number  of points. They  said they 
werent sure whether  Mr M had made the relevant calls in 2019  by phone  at all and they 
might have been by live chat.  They  also said that theyd never agreed to match the same 
terms and conditions as the previous year. And theyd  made  it clear  to Mr M that any 
charges would be applicable for the following  year. They  said they thought  Mr M knew  the 
charges would continue to apply.
And now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
LV said theyd made clear to Mr M that any charges would be applicable  the following year. 
But looking  at what theyve sent me, I dont think they made this clear  at all. LVs response 
said he could add his wife to the policy and didnt mention the administration fee.
And, in any case,  our normal approach  in deciding what is the fair and reasonable outcome 
is in this type of complaint is to consider the actual terms on these  charges. And I dont think  
these are clear. So, irrespective of what Mr M was told, I don't think its fair and reasonable 
for LV to rely on them.
So, having  considered the response  to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from 
the findings Ive already reached  in this case. And my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance 
Company Limited  should not charge the administration fee when Mr M adds his wife to his 
policy as an additional  driver for the policy periods April 2018-2019 and April 2019-2020.  
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited should also pay Mr M £100 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8808684