K820x#14complaint
J is unhappy with how Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has handled its claim 
under its buildings insurance  policy.
When I mention RSA Im also referring to its appointed representatives.
background
In 2012 Js business premises were damaged by flood.  It moved  premises and in 2014 
submitted a business interruption claim under its buildings  insurance policy.
RSA made  an offer to J in 2014. J didnt accept this. That aspect of the claim was brought  to 
our service  out of time and has been  dealt with by our service separately,  so I wont  be 
commenting on that in this decision.
In 2016 Js solicitors got in contact with RSA.  They raised a number of concerns, many of 
which had been  addressed by RSA in its letter to J in 2014. But they also felt that RSA had 
continued to delay and frustrate  the claim. 
RSA responded  to Js solicitors providing  its answers to the concerns about any delay. It 
also explained that additional information was required from J to help move the claim 
forward. This communication continued during 2017.  A complaint  was made by J in 2018.  
RSA didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it didnt feel it had done  anything wrong. It also said 
it had replied to all of Js solicitors letters in a timely way and had provided all the 
information required. RSA confirmed in its response  to J that its solicitors  were open to the 
possibility of mediating informally (ADR) to settle the dispute, but additional  information  was 
required from J before ADR  would  be considered.
J didnt accept RSAs  explanations and brought the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Js complaint.  He said he didnt think RSA had done anything  
to cause delays  during  the claims process.  He also said he was satisfied RSA had replied to 
J and its solicitors in a timely manner, and any delays had been caused  by Js solicitors.
J didnt agree with this so its been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I havent seen  anything to show that RSA delayed the claim. It issued its original response to 
J in 2014, giving it the opportunity to bring its complaint to our service. It was a further  two 
years until Js solicitors  wrote to RSA to continue the dispute surrounding the claim. From 
that point on RSA have corresponded  in reasonable time with J and its solicitors  whenever it 
has been required to. There  was a delay between  February 2017  and August 2017 but this 
wasnt caused by RSA. It had sent Js solicitor a letter  in February  2017   it took Js solicitor 
until August 2017  to respond to it. Im satisfied that RSA hasnt  delayed  the progress of the 
claim. 
Ref: DRN87311282RSA has provided all the correspondence  between  it and Js solicitors. There  arent any 
instances when  RSA hasnt provided  a response so Im satisfied it hasnt done anything  
wrong here.
J hasnt made it clear what information  it feels has been refused from RSA. Having looked  at 
the letters between  RSA and Js solicitors its clear  that RSA has addressed all the solicitors 
concerns. RSA has asked  for more information  to be provided to it in relation  to certain 
aspects of the business interruption claim,  and some of that information remains 
outstanding. The information requested by RSA is reasonable and necessary to help 
validate the claim. So, Im satisfied RSA hasnt  been able to move  the claim forward without 
it. I would urge J and its solicitors to provide RSA with the outstanding information to help the 
claim move forward.
In relation to engaging in ADR, again Im satisfied that RSA hasnt  done  anything wrong 
here. Its correspondence to Js solicitors  has made  it clear that RSA will consider engaging 
in ADR  once its had all the information  that is outstanding. It doesnt  feel that ADR would be 
beneficial at this point in time as some of the information is still unclear. Its fair for RSA to 
say that and its for J to provide what RSA is asking for to make ADR an option.
I know the damage caused  by the flood  has had a severe impact  on J but there  isnt any 
evidence to show that RSA has caused any additional distress.  Because  of this, I wont be 
asking RSA to do anything further.  Its for J and his solicitors to provide RSA with the 
outstanding information to try and move towards  a resolution
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8731128