K822xcomplaint
Mrs J has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) service following  a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Js been helped by her son-in-law. But for ease Ill refer to his 
comments s being those  of Mrs J.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background 
Mrs J was in an accident that wasn't  her fault.  UKI said her car was a total loss. It valued the 
car at £3,700. Mrs J thought that sum was too low as she said that she couldn't buy a car 
locally for that price. She was also unhappy about  some other  aspects of UKIs service, 
including that in 2014 it had incorrectly recorded  her car as having  been a total loss on a 
shared database.  UKI acknowledged  that it had made a mistake in 2014. It offered Mrs J 
£75 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience that mistake had caused.
Mrs J didn't think that went far enough  and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
thought that UKI had dealt  with Mrs J fairly. Mrs J didn't agree so the complaint's  been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mrs Js made  a number  of detailed points. I've considered  
everything shes said carefully. But I don't intend to refer to each individual  point shes  made.  
Instead I will focus on what I see as the central issues.
valuation
At the heart  if this complaint is Mrs Js concern  that UKI undervalued her car. And, as a 
result, she couldn't buy a replacement locally. So I've looked  very carefully at UKIs 
valuation.
As our investigator explained it's not the role of this service to value cars, instead we look to 
see whether or not a business like UKI has valued  a car reasonably.  Valuing  cars isnt an 
exact science  but as a starting point  we will generally look at the trade  guides.  We've  access 
to their on-line tools so we can run valuations ourselves in order  to check  whether a 
business has arrived at a reasonable valuation. 
Mrs J has argued  that the trade guides valuations don't reflect her cars true value because 
the guides use national sales prices, which don't reflect the prices cars are sold for locally to 
her. To support  that argument Mrs J provided  two adverts for cars being sold locally  that 
were around  £800 and £2,300 more  than UKI valued her car at. But I don't  think  two adverts 
alone are satisfactory  evidence that cars like her own in her local area are more expensive  
than in the national market. And I've seen evidence from the trade guides that show  that 
cars were advertised locally to Mrs J for sums in line with the trade  guides valuations.  Its 
also worth  noting that just because a car is advertised at a certain price doesn't  mean  that it 
Ref: DRN88847012will sell at that price, if it sells at all. And, generally, cars are advertised at higher than their 
selling price to allow  room for negotiation.  So I don't think that the adverts Mrs J has 
provided are persuasive that similar cars are markedly  more  expensive in her local area. So 
I think UKI acted reasonably in using a trade guide as a starting  point for valuing Mrs Js car.
Like our investigator I checked  three leading trade guides and understandably  received the 
same figures she had. The guides  all provide slightly different figures, which  were  £3510,  
£3720 and £3753. So, in order  to find a fair market  value I think  its reasonable to take an 
average of the three valuations provided,  which in this case is £3,661. As UKI valued  Mrs Js 
car at a slightly higher figure, I think its valuation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
Mrs Js referred  to UKI making a £10 deduction  from its valuation. While its not entirely clear 
why it did that, given that I think the final valuation remains higher than the average figure 
I've referred to above,  I don't think the £10 deduction makes UKIs valuation  unreasonable.   
That said,  I have noted that UKI could certainly  have handled  the matter better. For example 
Mrs J asked UKI to provide copies of the evidence from the trade guide it had used in 
valuing her car. But it provided  her with mixed messages  about  whether or not it would 
provide that evidence. And it didn't ever actually  provide that source information. And it was 
only after further  requests from Mrs J that UKI provided a breakdown of its valuation. Clearly,  
it would  have been better for all concerned if UKI had explained at the outset  whether  it 
would provide the source of the valuation information or not. And if its policy  is not to do so, 
perhaps for fear of a copyright infringement,  then it should have explained that at the outset. 
It also would  have  been helpful if it had provided the breakdown  of its valuation sooner 
without Mrs J having to make multiple requests  for it. But it did eventually  provide that 
information, and while Mrs J might  not agree with it, as I've said above  I think  its valuation 
was reasonable.  So I don't think shes out of pocket.
incorrectly recording Mrs Js car as a total loss
After disputing UKIs valuation of her car Mrs J learned that, in 2014, UKI had incorrectly  
noted a shared database that it had deemed  her car a total loss. That wasn't the case and 
UKI acknowledged it had got this wrong and took steps to update the shared database with 
the correct information. It also offered Mrs J £75 to address her distress  and inconvenience  
as a result  of its mistake.
Mrs J didn't think that went far enough.  In particular  she was concerned  that UKIs mistakes 
had affected her premiums in the meantime. Our investigator told Mrs J that UKI had shown 
us evidence that its mistake hadn't affected  her premiums but said that we couldn't share 
that information with Mrs J. And I can understand that she might  find that frustrating. But it 
might help if I explain that insurance is a competitive market and the manner in which  
insurers set their premiums is commercially sensitive information. So insurers  won't usually 
explain how theyve worked out a premium  to their customers. Thats because that 
information could  give a commercial advantage to their competitors. So we don't expect 
insurers to make that information publicly available. But having considered it myself Im 
satisfied that Mrs Js premiums weren't affected  by UKIs mistake  in incorrectly recording her 
car as a total loss.
Mrs Js also said that UKIs mistake amounts to a disregard of data protection laws.  Its not 
my role to make determinations about the breach of data protection  laws;  that would be the 
responsibility of the Information Commissioners Office. But in any event UKI has 
acknowledged that it made  a mistake, taken steps  to put it right and offered Mrs J £75 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience because of that mistake.  And I haven't 
Ref: DRN88847013seen any persuasive  evidence that UKIs mistake has significantly affected her, so I think  
UKIs response is reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that my decision is likely to disappoint Mrs J. But having considered all the 
points shes raised  very carefully, Im satisfied  that UKI valued her car reasonably. I'm 
equally satisfied that her premiums weren't  affected  by its mistake notifying a shared 
database that her car was a total loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8884701