K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained because  Vanquis Bank Limited  recorded an Arrangement to pay on his 
credit file. He wants Vanquis to record a Default instead.
background
Mr H had a Vanquis credit  card with a limit of £1,500. He exceeded  the limit and had a 
balance of around £1,850.  Mr H wasnt  able to make the payments he needed  to, and in 
2016 Vanquis agreed a long-term arrangement under  which Mr H would pay £1 a month 
towards his debt.
On three  occasions, Vanquis issued a Notice of Default  to Mr H. A Notice of Default doesnt  
say that a default will definitely be issued  against  a debtor. Its a formal  warning  under  the 
Consumer Credit Act, which says that the lender has the right to issue  a default if the 
customer doesnt take action. 
Vanquis issued  one of these  Notice  of Default letters to Mr H on 5 September 2016. This 
said that Mr H hadnt  made the required £1 payment and was therefore  in breach of his 
contract with Vanquis. The letter said Mr H had until 24 September  to make  the payment 
due, and the arrears  were  £1. It said:
If you fail to comply with the enclosed Notice of Default we may file a default in respect of 
your credit card account with the credit  reference agencies.
The letter also said:
This can be remedied if you submit  a payment sufficient to clear the arrears.
On 19 September  2016, Mr H made  a payment of £2 to his Vanquis account, and then 
continued to make regular payments of £1 or £2 a month.
In November 2018, Mr H asked Vanquis  to default his account.  Vanquis  refused, and Mr H 
complained. Vanquis  explained to Mr H that his account hadnt defaulted. For an account to 
default, the account must be 6 contractual payments  in arrears.  Mr H had a payment 
arrangement, which  had agreed a lower contractual payment.  Hed kept up to date with his 
arrangement, so his account hadnt defaulted.  Vanquis also explained that a payment 
arrangement wasnt  as bad for Mr Hs credit file as a default would be.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  He said that he has other debts, and is 
in a debt management plan. A number of his other  creditors  had defaulted his accounts,  and 
hed now made  an agreement through a debt management  company, so hed only pay back  
a percentage  of the debts  which had been defaulted. So Mr H wanted his Vanquis debt to be 
defaulted too. He said that hed had a Notice of Default in September  2016, so he believed 
Vanquis should have defaulted his account at that point. 
In December 2018, Mr H paid off the full balance of his account. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. He looked at Mr Hs statements, and saw 
that hed made a payment  on 19 September  2016  which had paid off the arrears. He also 
looked at Mr Hs credit file, which correctly showed Arrangement  to pay.
Mr H was still unhappy. He said that hed had other  creditors who had given him a default,  
but Vanquis wouldnt do so, which meant his debt would stay on his file longer. Mr H also 
Ref: DRN86942252said that he knew someone else where  this service had reversed the lenders decision, and 
had made  them lodge a backdated default.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, we look at every  complaint on an individual basis. Circumstances differ, and Ive 
looked at Mr Hs situation, not whatever his friends  situation might have been. 
Similarly, Vanquis was entitled to act in accordance with its own policies and the particular 
situation of Mr Hs account with Vanquis. I can see from Mr Hs credit file that his other  debts 
varied. Some were defaulted  and some had arrangements to pay. But it was up to those 
lenders to follow their own policies.  I can only look at Mr Hs Vanquis account,  and assess  
whether Vanquis  acted  fairly.
The letter with the Notice of Default which Mr H received wasnt  telling him that his account 
had definitely  been defaulted. It was a warning. As Ive set out above, the wording explained 
that if you fail to comply... Vanquis  may issue a default. And it also specifically said that 
this could be remedied if Mr H made a payment to clear his arrears. This is what  Mr H did. 
So Vanquis was right when it didnt default  his account.
As Vanquis  explained,  an arrangement  to pay marker on a credit  file is viewed less 
unfavourably than a default. Mr Hs credit file shows that this was what Vanquis  recorded. All 
lenders have to supply  correct information to the credit reference  agencies. And it was 
accurate that Mr H had an arrangement to pay.
  
I recognise that Mr H would have liked to include  his Vanquis debt with his other  defaulted 
accounts, as hes said he only had to pay a percentage of those debts. But that doesnt 
change the fact that his account hadnt defaulted. So it wouldnt have been  correct for 
Vanquis to report it as defaulted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision before 
30 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8694225