K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1988 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £206.00 a month towards  Mr Ms mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £10.30  a month.  
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a quality controller. He has told us he was entitled  to 
three months sick pay, six months redundancy pay and that he had £1,500 in savings. Mr M 
has said he was in good health at the time of the sale,  although hed had his appendix  
removed as a child. 
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 
1995. 
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Bradford & Bingley  failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bradford & Bingley 
should have told Mr M about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bradford & Bingley should  
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr M and 
the impact they would have had on his chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN85722632The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1988 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1995. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after Bradford  & Bingley sold Mr M the PPI. Prior to this there were fewer requirements on a 
business when  selling  insurance  such as this. But Bradford & Bingley doesnt  appear to have 
considered Mr Ms complaint any differently  it seems to me they have considered  the sale 
of PPI against these  later standards.  So, on the basis that it puts Mr M in a more favourable 
position, I have  taken into account the later industry  codes of practice in considering what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN85722633The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bradford & Bingley  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bradford & Bingley  gave advice, whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bradford  & Bingley gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Bradford & Bingley,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Ref: DRN85722634did Mr M know he had a choice?
Bradford & Bingley  had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr M ticked a box on his mortgage application to indicate that he wanted accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover. The application  form showed the monthly  benefit  that he would 
receive if he made a successful claim.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bradford & Bingley  provide advice?
Both Bradford & Bingley and Mr M agree that advice wasnt  provided during this sale. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr M. 
Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bradford & Bingley gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr M agreed  to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think Bradford & Bingley  gave  Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including 
drawing his attention  and highlighting   in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN85722635-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Bradford  & Bingley ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Bradford & Bingleys shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent did 
Mr M suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bradford & Bingley didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy 
to Mr M. So, I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr M suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether 
or not Mr M would have  still taken out the policy, had Bradford & Bingley done  things  
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Bradford & Bingley took the steps it should have done  to establish 
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr M, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Bradford & Bingley had explained 
things properly, Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken  out the 
policy in any event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Bradford & Bingley advised him that there was a 
suitable product  he could  buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded  he wanted 
that product.  But he made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN85722636As Ive also already explained, the information Mr M was given about the benefit was clear.  
the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Bradford & Bingley  told him the exact  premium  at the point 
Mr M applied  for the policy.  Having  said that, it seems likely Mr M would have been told the 
cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs 
were significantly  at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might 
have raised that with Bradford & Bingley at the time or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions for which Mr M had sought 
medical treatment during  the 12 months  prior to the commencement of cover  or any 
recurring disease which recurs during the first 12 months of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr M was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr M wouldve been caught by any of the significant  exclusions   Mr M didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr M needed to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So, it seems unlikely he would have thought hed been  able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working.
The policy did not limit how many monthly  payments  could be made per claim, other than 
that they would stop when Mr M returned  to work  or reached state  retirement age.
Ref: DRN85722637Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr M was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Bradford & Bingley should pay Mr M compensation, as that 
would put him in a better position than he would have been in if everything  had happened  as 
it should have  done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  Bradford  & Bingley misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Bradford & Bingleys statements misrepresented  the contract,  in my opinion the reason why 
Bradford & Bingley  failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Bradford & Bingley  
Ref: DRN85722638gave Mr M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1988  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Bradford & Bingley  negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr M and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Bradford  & Bingley had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr M in a better position than if everything 
had happened  as it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8572263