K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Britannia  Building  Society, now The Co-operative  Bank  Plc, mis-sold 
them two endowment policies in 1986. They complain they werent aware of the risks 
involved and were  led to believe they would receive  lump sums over and above  the target 
amounts. 
background
Mr and Mrs H were soon  to be married when they attended a Britannia  branch to arrange a 
mortgage in 1986. At the time Mr H had two dependents and was a building control officer. 
Mrs H was a solicitor  who had just returned to practice after a period of time away from that 
work. 
Both Mr and Mrs H had had previous repayment mortgages. They didnt have any other 
investments at the time and were contributing to their respective pension schemes. Outside 
of that they held a very small amount  of savings. This was to be their first house together. 
Mr and Mrs H were borrowing the full amount of the purchase price - £35,750. They were  
offered an interest  only mortgage and sold two endowment  policies  one set up with a sum 
assured of £33,000 and the other £2,750. Both endowments  were  invested into the with 
profits fund. The policies matured in 2011  with a shortfall.
Mr and Mrs H complained  about the sale of the policies in October  2017.  The Co-op 
investigated the complaint but didnt  uphold it. It said one policy hadnt been sold by it, but by 
the endowment  provider  directly, as they were also borrowing with it so they had a 100% 
mortgage. It didnt  think the other endowment policy was unsuitable  for their circumstances 
but in any event the complaint was out of time from high risk warning letters  issued. 
Mr and Mrs H asked us to look into their complaint. We didnt think the complaint had been  
made late as the letters  were sent date as postmark and so we didnt know when time 
started or finished  in accordance with the rules. The Co-op agreed we could look into this 
matter. Our investigator upheld the complaint as she didnt think the risk represented by the 
policy sold by Britannia was appropriate for Mr and Mrs H. So she recommended it 
compensate Mr and Mrs H in accordance with the regulators guidance for these types of 
complaint. 
The Co-op asked  for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said:
It didnt provide advice  in 1986  and there was no requirement to establish their 
attitude to risk.
A repayment mortgage wasnt an option for Mr and Mrs H at the time.  As they were  
borrowing 100%  of the purchase  price this could only be done on an interest only 
basis.  
There is no evidence a guarantee was given in relation to the maturity value of the 
policy. 
Its satisfied the endowment policy was suitable.  
I issued my provisional decision explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold  this complaint on 
25 February 2019. Both parties have confirmed  receipt and that they have nothing further to 
add. 
Ref: DRN81845112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
evidence or arguments  for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings and make them final. 
Britannia has said the second  small policy wasnt sold by it but by Royal & Sun Alliance 
(RSA)  as the policy was taken out to repay a loan Mr and Mrs H took out through RSA to 
borrow the full amount  needed for the mortgage.  
Britannia hasnt  provided any actual evidence  to support that. And I consider it highly unlikely 
that when Mr and Mrs H were in branch discussing their mortgage arrangements  they 
stopped part way through to have a discussion with RSA. It seems  much more likely  that if 
Mr and Mrs H were unable to borrow  the full amount from Britannia that it facilitated a way 
for them to do that. I say this bearing  in mind the policy start date and end dates are the 
same, and they were invested into the same area. As Im satisfied both policies were likely 
sold during the same  discussion, it follows that Britannia are responsible  for answering the 
complaint about  both policies. 
Having considered Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances carefully I dont find the sale of the 
policies to have  been inappropriate for them. I say this because:
The policies were  sold prior to any regulatory  requirements being in place. If 
Britannia did provide financial advice, and its far from certain it did, it just needed to 
ensure it provided  that advice with care and skill, not act with negligence or 
misrepresent the position. And any policies  sold needed  to be a reasonable fit for the 
customer. 
Both Mr and Mrs H had held repayment mortgages previously. So they already had 
experience of mortgages prior to taking out this one. 
Mr and Mrs H were applying for a 100% mortgage which  was only available on an 
interest only basis. And they would have needed  a repayment vehicle for that. The 
endowment policies also provided  life insurance for the mortgage should either       
Mr or Mrs H die during the term. Given Mr H had two dependants  this would have 
been beneficial  for them. This was their first interest only mortgage.  Although  they 
might not have had much in the way of savings or investment experience, a low risk 
investment such as With Profits, would  have been  a reasonable  fit with their 
circumstances and needs at the time.
A repayment mortgage  wasnt an option for them. So this was the only option  with 
Britannia and I understand the policies sold were  the lowest  risk available. If they 
werent happy with being  offered an interest only mortgage,  they could have shopped 
around elsewhere  and that wasnt something Britannia was required to advise them 
to do.
Overall, I find if a recommendation was made, it was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs needs and 
circumstances at the time. 
I have considered their comments  that they were  led to believe the policies would exceed 
the target  amount at maturity. I dont doubt  the policies would have been sold in a positive 
light, particularly given  how investment returns were at the time. But I havent seen any 
evidence that Britannia guaranteed the policies would meet or exceed the target sum at 
Ref: DRN81845113maturity and Im not aware the policies contained any such  guarantee within  the terms. So I 
dont uphold this part of their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8184511