K820x#14complaint
Mrs R acquired  real estate in 2010,  by means of payments made from her account with 
Lloyds Bank  PLC. She complains that the real estate was mis-represented  to her, and she 
wants Lloyds to recover or refund these payments to her account.
background
Mrs R acquired  an overseas property on the understanding that it would yield a rental  
income, which has not materialised. She complained to Lloyds in August  2018, asking it to 
recover these payments. 
It was initially understood  that the payments had been made  using a debit  card, for which 
chargebacks could be made in some circumstances. Lloyds told Mrs R that the time limit 
within which  chargebacks  must be initiated  had passed, and so it was unable  to assist  her in 
this way.
It was subsequently understood that the payments had been made by international transfers 
between bank accounts. Lloyds told Mrs R that there were no chargeback  arrangements  
associated with this type of transaction.
Mrs R told Lloyds that it should refund her payments,  because  of its responsibilities under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  Lloyds  responded to say that Section 75 did 
not apply, in the circumstances  of her complaint.
Mrs R then referred her complaint to us. Our investigator did not think it should be upheld.  
She said that our role was to consider whether or not Lloyds had done anything  wrong. And 
she could not see that Lloyds had made  an error on this occasion.
Mrs R disagreed with our investigator. And so this complaint was referred for review  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
Lloyds cannot  employ  the debit card chargeback arrangements  not only because too much 
time has elapsed, but also because Mrs Rs payments  were  not made  using a debit  card. 
And the method she used to make  these payments does not allow for chargebacks.
Lloyds has a responsibility to ensure that goods  of satisfactory quality,  and corresponding to 
their description, have been  supplied  in certain  circumstances.  These arise  where there is 
a financial transaction  directly linking a Debtor (possibly Mrs R, in this case), a Creditor  
(possibly Lloyds) and a Supplier  (possibly  the organisation from which Mrs R acquired  the 
overseas property)   called a DCS relationship.  
But Mrs D did not:
Take out a loan with Lloyds to make her acquisition
Or use a Lloyds credit  card to make payments she wants  refunded
Or enter into a DCS  relationship with Lloyds and the supplier in another way
Ref: DRN88762362And, in the absence  of a DCS relationship, Lloyds is not responsible either if Mrs Ds 
acquisition is not of satisfactory quality, and/or if the acquisition was mis-represented to her. 
Mrs R has asked us to take into consideration that she is a normal customer  who,  until now,  
was completely unaware of any time limits  or similar  constraints on complaints being  made. 
She wants us to make allowance  for this lack of knowledge, and also to take into account the 
substantial financial loss that she has suffered.
Like our investigator,  I sympathise with Mrs R. But the Financial Ombudsman  Service 
operates within a set of rules, which we are not allowed  to break.  
We can only ask Lloyds  to do something  more for Mrs R, if it has done something  wrong,  or 
if it failed to act when it should have  done something. Neither of these instances  applies in 
this case, and so I am unable to find in her favour.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8876236