K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her an HSBC Plus 
packaged bank  account in 2006.  She paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Miss Gs account history with HSBC  is as follows:
she opened  a fee-free account in May 2005;
she upgraded to the Plus account  around September  2006;
she downgraded to a fee-free account in October 2018.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that HSBC mis-sold the Plus account to Miss G and 
didnt recommend that HSBC should  pay her any compensation.  Miss G didnt agree so she 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Miss Gs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Miss Gs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think the Plus account  was mis-sold 
to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Miss G was given a fair choice when  she took her 
packaged bank  account.
When Miss G raised her complaint her main  point appeared to be that she wasnt  told about 
fee-free accounts.  She explained that she was only offered a packaged bank account. She 
also said the account was upgraded without her knowledge.
Ive thought about what Miss G said but I can see that she took the packaged  bank account 
by switching from a free account. At the time of upgrading shed held a fee-free account for 
over a year, so its clear she knew they were available. And I cant see anything  that 
wouldve made her think any differently. So on balance,  I think  that HSBC gave Miss G a fair 
choice to take the Plus account,  and she chose to take it.
Miss G also says that she didnt know her account had been upgraded. But she also said 
that HSBC wrote to her to tell her it had done  so  although she didnt understand English so 
she didnt understand the letter HSBC sent.
Ref: DRN87316182Again, Ive considered this, but in doing so I have to consider  whats  most likely to have 
happened. Firstly,  Im not aware that HSBC ever upgraded accounts without consent, 
notifying customers afterwards. Im also mindful  that Miss G says she didnt understand the 
letter HSBC  sent.  But she mustve understood it to a certain  degree, because otherwise I 
dont think shed have  known what that letter was, and it wouldnt have been raised within 
her complaint. So Im not persuaded that HSBC upgraded Miss Gs account  without her 
consent, and simply  advised  her that it had been  done.
I dont think that HSBC personally  recommended  the Plus account  to Miss G. So it didnt 
have to check if the account was suitable  for her
HSBC had to give Miss G enough  clear information  about the packaged account for her to 
decide if she wanted it. Like our adjudicator, I think that Miss G was interested  in some of the 
benefits of the packaged  account and chose  it because  of these benefits. 
In September  2006 the Plus accounts  main  benefits were worldwide travel  insurance and 
fee-free overseas cash withdrawals. Miss G says she travelled a number of times per year 
and I can see numerous cash  machine  withdrawals  in the years that followed the upgrade.  In 
fact, I can see that she travelled to Spain in the month after the upgrade.
As Miss G travelled fairly frequently,  and shortly after the upgrade, I think the Plus accounts  
travel insurance and fee-free overseas cash withdrawals were probably appealing to her. I 
do understand that she didnt ever need to claim on the travel insurance, but I think  she 
knew it existed, and she couldve relied  on it to make a claim if shed needed to.
Miss Gs Plus account was also renamed  to the Advance account in February 2010. HSBC  
says it sent all customers a new welcome  pack at that point, to let them  know  about the 
change and to remind them  of the accounts benefits. Whilst I havent  seen  evidence  that this 
welcome pack was specifically sent to Miss G, I think its likely it was. And even if she couldnt 
understand much English around  2005 or 2006,  I think shed have understood a lot more  by 
2010, and so I think shed have known  by then that she had a packaged bank account.
With this in mind, I think HSBC most likely  told Miss G about the Plus accounts benefits 
before she upgraded. After all, I dont  think shed have agreed  to switch from an account with 
no fee, to an account  with a monthly fee, without getting anything in return  for it. And I dont 
think shed have kept it once she realised she had it, if she didnt want  it. Miss G may not 
have gone on to use all of the Plus accounts  benefits, but this doesnt mean HSBC mis-sold 
the account. 
Its possible that HSBC  didnt tell Miss G everything  it should  have about the Plus account. 
But I havent seen  enough to make  me think that Miss G wouldnt still have taken the 
account even  if HSBC had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Miss G that Ive looked at all the information I have about  her complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything she has said. But having  done so I dont think  HSBC mis-
sold the Plus account to her. So I dont  think it owes her any money.
Ref: DRN87316183my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8731618