K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy about the amount Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  has refunded to him in 
compensation for excess commission, over 50%. This was paid by Mr O as part of the 
premiums on his payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a credit card in 
2003.
 
background
Mr O took out a credit card in 2003 (card ending 9989). At the same time he bought  a PPI 
policy. He complained to Lloyds  about the mis sale of the policy in 2012. Lloyds didnt uphold  
his complaint.
As the PPI wasnt found to be mis-sold Lloyds recently looked at whether Mr O was due any 
excess commission, over 50%, on the premiums  he paid for the PPI with his credit card. 
In 2018, Lloyds wrote to Mr O. In its final response letter  dated  January 2018 it said that it 
had originally responded to Mr Os mis-selling  concerns.  But it also said that when it sold the 
PPI it didnt tell Mr O that it had received commission and any related profits  from the 
insurance company.  It also explained  that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had 
published rules  about how to assess whether an unfair relationship had been created. 
It concluded that an Unfair Relationship had been created and offered to pay back the sum 
of £5,255.93 to put things right. Lloyds attached a breakdown to its final response  showing 
how it had calculated the sum due and it told Mr O that it had made the calculation taking 
into account the periods of his policy where  an Unfair Relationship existed. It also said it had 
added the interest  for the full life of Mr Os policy. I understand that Mr O cancelled  his PPI in 
2006.
Our adjudicator thought that the amount paid by Lloyds to Mr O was a fair way to resolve  his 
commission complaint. Mr O didnt agree that the amount offered was fair. He said hed had 
his credit card for a long time and he was due more  in compensation than the amount 
offered by Lloyds. He asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, Im not looking at whether Lloyds mis-sold this policy. This was something which  
was considered in 2012. Im only looking at whether the commission Lloyds has repaid Mr O 
to refund any excess premiums over 50% included as part of the premiums  hed paid for PPI 
on his credit card was fair. I think it was. I will explain  why.
The amount  payable for the commission is not all the money Mr O paid for his PPI. Lloyds 
has worked out how much of the commission was over 50% of the premiums that Mr O paid. 
It has then added any extra interest  Mr O may have  paid because  the amount of the 
commission was included  in his credit card balance. 
Lloyds set out how it had calculated this in its letter of January  2018. It also added  to this 
sum some compensatory interest  for any times Mr O was out of pocket  for the commission.  
Ref: DRN81436252And as it was required to do it has deducted  basic rate tax (currently 20%)  on the 
compensatory interest  included in the gross payment due.
In summary,  Lloyds doesnt  have to pay all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think what  it has paid back is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think the amount Lloyds Bank PLC has paid back  to Mr O 
as compensation  for any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium is fair.  
So I dont  uphold this complaint and Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt need  to pay any further 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8143625