K820x#14complaint
Ms K is unhappy with how Suffolk  Life Pensions Limited implemented a Pension Sharing Order 
(PSO) during 2016 and 2017. She considers  that for much  of the time Suffolk  Life lacked the 
capability to deal with the PSO resulting in numerous  mistakes on its part and, therefore, 
frustration, delays and costs to Ms K.
background
In 2016, Ms K and her former husband (who  I will refer to as Mr A) agreed a financial 
settlement in relation to their divorce. Part of this settlement involved the Self Invested  
Personal Pensions (SIPPs) that Ms K and Mr A held with Suffolk Life. A Financial Order was 
issued by a court but there were problems in implementing  it, so a further Financial Order 
and PSO were issued in early 2017.  
The SIPPs held a number  of assets  including a commercial  property which was registered  
under a single  title but had been  split into two units,  both of which  had been  leased out. 
Ms Ks SIPP and Mr As SIPP both had an interest,  albeit  of different percentages, in the 
property. The financial agreement between Ms K and Mr A was to equalise the value of their 
SIPPs, meaning (amongst  other  things) an adjustment to their respective shares  of the 
commercial property. The property was to be re-registered with the Land Registry  as two 
distinct properties, with Ms Ks SIPP owning one of the properties and Mr As SIPP  the other. 
Implementing the PSO wasnt a smooth process and it wasnt  until 2017 that it was 
completed. Ms K complained to Suffolk Life on a number of occasions about the time it was 
taking, its interpretation  of pension rules and the overall service it was providing. Suffolk Life 
provided its formal response to these complaints in July 2016, October 2016 and May 2017. 
In its October 2016 response (and on a number of occasions thereafter), it told Ms K that it 
would review the fees it was charging  once  the PSO had been concluded. 
In November 2017, Suffolk Life sent Ms K a letter explaining the outcome of its fee review. It 
argued in this letter (and subsequently) that the PSO was far from standard as it essentially 
involved the selling and repurchasing  of a property, the subsequent reorganisation of leases, 
insurance, mortgages and the like, and the backdating of transactions to the effective date of 
the PSO. It said all the legal, accounting, valuation and administrative work  that this entailed 
was complicated and time consuming. It also said it had to satisfy  itself at various points that 
HMRC and pension  rules were being followed.  So it thought the PSO  was unusually difficult  
to execute. Nevertheless,  it agreed it could have done better, especially in relation  to delays 
it caused in mid-2016. As a result, it said it wouldnt charge for all the work it had done. 
As part of its fee review,  Suffolk Life reduced  the hourly fee for a number of its employees 
working on the PSO.  This reduced  the aggregate fee for this work from £17,760 to £10,320. 
Suffolk Life also reduced its flat fees from £4,200 to £3,000. Given these discounts, Suffolk 
Lifes total fee would have  been reduced  from £21,960 to £13,320. However, it decided to 
only charge £10,000 in total. So the total discount was £11,960 (£21,960 down  to £10,000),  
or just over 50%. 
Suffolk Lifes fee review  was outlined in a letter to Ms K dated 23 November 2017.  In the 
meantime, around June 2017,  Ms K had hired an accountant to speed  up the 
implementation of the PSO.  She asked Suffolk  Life whether it would pay for this work but 
she didnt get a clear  answer. After receiving Suffolk  Lifes fee review letter, Ms K said 
Suffolk Life should also be responsible for the cost of the accountant because, in her view, it 
Ref: DRN89169492wouldnt have been able to complete the PSO  without  this support. The cost of the 
accountants work was £4,600, or £5,520  including  VAT. 
Suffolk Life refused  to meet  the additional  cost of the accountant. It said its terms and 
conditions were clear  any third-party  professional  costs incurred are to be settled by the 
SIPP. It said the work of the accountant wasnt necessary  to get the PSO  completed.  And it 
referred back to the £11,960 reduction  in fees that it had already applied.  It thought  that it 
had done enough, in total, to address Ms Ks concerns.
Ms K referred the matter  to us. Our adjudicator  didnt uphold  the complaint. He said 
Suffolk Life could have done  better  overall,  but he thought the reduction in fees was
substantial enough  to reflect this, especially given the complexities of the PSO. On the issue 
of the accountants fee, he thought Suffolk  Life could have said at the time that it wouldnt 
pay for this work, especially as Ms K had asked about this on several  occasions.  But he 
concluded Suffolk Life shouldnt be responsible for this cost because  its terms and 
conditions were clear that the SIPP pays for the cost of external advisers. 
Ms K agreed with Suffolk Lifes reduction in fees. But she still thought it should pay the fee 
for her accountant. The matter was therefore referred to me for a decision.
I set out my initial conclusions in a provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. As Ms K accepted  the reduction in Suffolk Lifes  fees, I 
limited my findings to the issue of the accountants fee and whether Suffolk  Life should be 
responsible for this. I thought the terms of Ms Ks SIPP  were  clear  fees for third party  
professionals, such as those for her accountant, are to be borne by the SIPP. I said I could 
look beyond the SIPPs terms and conditions providing I had compelling reasons why it 
would be fair and reasonable to do so. But I didnt think I had those  reasons in Ms Ks case. 
My provisional decision was to not uphold Ms Ks complaint. 
I invited both parties to provide further  comments.  Suffolk Life didnt  have anything  further to 
add. Ms K made a number of comments, which I address below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the avoidance  of doubt, this means 
Ive read,  and considered, all the comments made by Ms K following my provisional 
decision.
Im satisfied Suffolk Lifes terms and conditions  clearly  state  that fees for third party 
professionals should  be charged  to the SIPP. So my starting  point here, as it was in my 
provisional decision, is that Suffolk Life hasnt done  anything wrong in charging the 
accountants fee to Ms Ks SIPP. 
I can look beyond a products terms and conditions  if it is fair and reasonable to do so. But 
doing so here would mean I would be implicitly endorsing the view that Suffolk  Life should 
pay an amount that it had no control over, for a service that it had never agreed to, delivered 
by a provider it had no say in choosing.  I would need particularly compelling  evidence  and 
arguments for taking  such an approach. 
Ms Ks argument is that she had no choice but to hire her accountant  because  Suffolk  Life 
couldnt complete  the PSO (or complete it in a reasonable  time) without her accountants 
Ref: DRN89169493help. In my provisional decision, I concluded  the accountant would have been of benefit  to 
both parties  he was an additional expert  resource after all. But I didnt think  the evidence  
was strong  enough  to say Ms K had no choice but to hire her accountant. Having reviewed  
the evidence on file, including all of Ms Ks comments  in response to my provisional  
decision, my view is unchanged. 
I recognise Ms K has provided further  detail to explain why she thinks  Suffolk Life lacked  the 
capability to implement the PSO by itself.  I wont repeat in detail what Ms K has said 
because some of her comments relate to the specific individuals  involved and this decision 
will be published. Suffice to say, Ms K thinks the responsibility for the PSO was given to two 
staff members who were essentially administrators lacking  the necessary skills (accountancy  
skills in particular) to get the job done.  She goes on to say that Suffolk Life did have suitably 
qualified staff, but they werent deployed  until far too late in the process.  In Ms Ks words, 
Suffolk Life didnt think the PSO  merited their input and Suffolk Life had the skill set; they 
just didnt want to give it to us. She says this more expert resource wasnt used until 
Ms Ks accountant got involved. 
I have considered what Ms K has said carefully.  However, I dont think  her comments  on the 
two administrators can be said to be objective and persuasive evidence of Suffolk  Lifes 
lack of capability. Besides, I think her comments about Suffolk  Life choosing not to use more 
qualified staff moves the argument on from one of capability  because  it seems Suffolk Life 
did have the necessary capability   to one of bad faith. That is, Suffolk Life deliberately  didnt 
use the capability it had at its disposal. 
It seems  unlikely  to me that Suffolk Life acted in this way. It had already spent a 
considerable number of man-hours on the PSO, many of which  it most likely knew it wouldnt 
be charging for as it had long since agreed to review its charges for the PSO.  It also says it 
wasnt logging all the man-hours it was devoting  to the PSO. So I dont think there was a 
financial incentive in dragging things  out. And I can only assume  Suffolk Life didnt  want to 
add to the number of complaints it had already  received  from Ms K about  the PSO.  So Im 
satisfied Suffolk Life, like Ms K, would have  wanted  to get the PSO  completed as soon as it 
could. With that in mind, I dont think Suffolk  Life was wilfully depriving  Ms K of some 
necessary expertise in the way she has argued. 
Ms K has also referred me to an email,  dated  23 June 2017, between Suffolk Life and her 
accountant. She points to Suffolk  Lifes comment that it would be useful to work with the 
accountant  evidence, in Ms Ks view, that Suffolk  Life couldnt progress the PSO without 
his help. And she says the email shows Suffolk Life wanted to progress things quickly 
because of an impending VAT deadline which, if missed, would cause further complications. 
Ms K says being  up against another  VAT quarter,  having negotiated one already, is 
evidence of Suffolk Lifes tardiness.
With regards to the first point, I dont think theres any doubt  that the accountant did help the 
process. Ive said as much previously. But thats  not the same as saying Suffolk  Life should 
have to pay for use of that accountant. For the reasons  given earlier,  and in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think that would be the right conclusion in this case. As regards to the 
second point,  Im not persuaded  the email,  in isolation, shows  why Suffolk Life should  pay 
for Ms Ks accountant  which is the pertinent issue. The email shows Suffolk Life had been 
progressing the PSO. It shows Suffolk  Life was working with Ms Ks accountant. And it 
shows a sense of urgency  on Suffolk  Lifes part because of an impending  VAT deadline.  
What it doesnt show  is why Suffolk Lifes actions were such that Ms K had little option  but to 
get the accountant involved.
Ref: DRN89169494Finally, its worth reiterating that Suffolk  Life could have handled  the PSO  better.  I said as 
much in my provisional decision. And Suffolk  Life has said so too  it reduced  its fees by 
more than half (£11,960)  in recognition of this. But a distinction needs to be drawn between 
some of Suffolk Lifes handling  of the PSO  and the much narrower issue  under review  here  
the payment of Ms Ks accountant. And on that issue,  the SIPPs terms and conditions are 
clear. Ms Ks SIPPs should pay for third party professionals like her accountant. I havent 
seen sufficiently persuasive evidence to show why putting aside these terms and conditions 
would be fair and reasonable in this case.
It follows that I dont uphold Ms Ks complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is to not uphold  Ms Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 August 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89169495COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms K is unhappy with how Suffolk  Life implemented a Pension  Sharing  Order (PSO) during 2016  and 
2017. She considers  that for much of the time Suffolk Life lacked the capability to deal with the PSO  
resulting in numerous  mistakes on its part and, therefore,  frustration, delays and costs to Ms K.
background
In 2016, Ms K and her former husband (who I will refer to as Mr A) agreed a financial settlement in 
relation to their divorce. Part of this settlement involved the Self Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) 
that Ms K and Mr A held with Suffolk Life. A Financial Order was issued by a court but there were 
problems in implementing it, so a further Financial Order and PSO  were issued in early 2017. 
The SIPPs held a number of assets including  a commercial property  which was registered  under a 
single title but had been split into two units, both of which had been leased out. Ms Ks SIPP and 
Mr As SIPP both had an interest, albeit  of different  percentages,  in the property. The financial 
agreement between Ms K and Mr A was to equalise  the value of their SIPPs,  meaning (amongst other 
things) an adjustment to their respective shares of the commercial property. The property was to be 
re-registered with the Land Registry as two distinct properties, with Ms Ks SIPP owning one of the 
properties and Mr As SIPP the other. 
Suffolk Life doesnt have a set fee for the implementation of a PSO. It charges an hourly  rate for the 
work that has to be done depending on the particular  skills and experience of the staff member  
involved in doing that work. In this case, its tariff ranged from £40 per hour for members of staff 
working on less technical matters to £80 per hour for more senior,  technical, staff. There were  also 
additional flat fees for certain activities  for example, £600 (plus  VAT) for the sale and re-registration 
of a property. Charges are taken from the SIPPs,  meaning in this case  the costs  being  shared 
between Ms Ks SIPP and Mr As SIPP. 
Implementing the PSO  wasnt a smooth process and it wasnt  until 2017  that it was completed.  Ms K 
complained to Suffolk Life on a number of occasions about the time it was taking, its interpretation of 
pension rules and the overall service it was providing. Suffolk Life provided its formal  response to 
these complaints in July 2016, October 2016 and May 2017. In its October 2016 response (and on a 
number of occasions thereafter), it told Ms K that it would review the fees it was charging once the 
PSO had been concluded. 
In November 2017, Suffolk  Life sent Ms K a letter explaining the outcome of its fee review. It argued 
in this letter (and subsequently) that the PSO was far from standard  as it essentially involved the 
selling and repurchasing of a property, the subsequent reorganisation of leases, insurance, 
mortgages and the like, and the backdating of transactions to the effective date of the PSO. It said all 
the legal, accounting,  valuation and administrative work that this entailed  was complicated and time 
consuming. It also said it had to satisfy itself at various points that HMRC and pension rules were 
being followed. So it thought the PSO was unusually  difficult  to execute.  Nevertheless, Suffolk  Life 
agreed it could have  done  better, especially  in relation to delays it caused in mid-2016. As a result, it 
said it wouldnt charge for all the work  it had done.  
Based on its tariff at the time, the combined cost to Ms Ks SIPP and Mr As SIPP for Suffolk  Lifes 
work would have been  £21,960. This was split between the accumulated cost per-hour of four 
members of staff (which  came to £17,760) and the flat fees (which came to £4,200). Suffolk Life has 
also said some work was done but not logged, so it says the true cost was actually higher than these 
figures show. 
As part of its fee review, Suffolk Life proposed to reduce the fee for those charging £80 per hour to 
£40 per hour, so that everyone  regardless of role  was effectively charging £40 per hour. This 
reduced its fee for this work from £17,760 to £10,320. It also agreed to discount some of its flat fees 
Ref: DRN89169496meaning the cost for this work reduced from £4,200 to £3,000. Based on these discounts,  the total fee 
would have been reduced to £13,320. However, Suffolk Life decided  to only charge  £10,000 in total.  
So the total discount was £11,960 (£21,960 minus £10,000), or just over 50%. 
Suffolk Lifes fee review was outlined  in a letter to Ms K dated 23 November 2017.  In the meantime,  
around June  2017, Ms K had hired an accountant to speed  up the implementation  of the PSO. She 
asked Suffolk  Life whether it would pay for this work  but she didnt  get a clear answer.  After receiving 
Suffolk Lifes fee review letter,  Ms K said Suffolk Life should also be responsible  for the cost of the 
accountant because,  in her view, Suffolk Life wouldnt have been  able to complete the PSO without 
this support. The cost of the accountants work  was £4,600,  or £5,520 including VAT. (It should  be 
noted that the accountant had worked  on the PSO previously but the cost of this previous work isnt 
part of Ms Ks complaint.) 
Suffolk Life responded on 15 December 2017. It refused to meet the additional cost of the accountant. 
It said the terms and conditions of its SIPP  were clear   any third-party  professional costs incurred  are 
to be settled by the SIPP. It said the work of the accountant wasnt necessary  to get the PSO  
completed. And it referred back to the £11,960 reduction in fees that it had already applied. It thought 
that it had done enough,  in total, to address  Ms Ks concerns.
Ms K referred the matter to us. Our adjudicator didnt  uphold her complaint. He recognised  that 
Suffolk Life could have  done  better overall,  but he thought the reduction in fees was substantial  
enough to reflect this, especially given the complexities of implementing  the PSO. On the issue of the 
accountants fee, he thought  Suffolk Life could have explicitly said at the time that it wouldnt pay for 
this work,  especially as Ms K had asked about this on a number of occasions. But he concluded that 
Suffolk Life shouldnt be responsible for this cost because the SIPPs terms and conditions were  clear  
on the issue  fees for external advisers  are to come from the SIPP.  As a result, our adjudicator  didnt 
think there was anything  further for Suffolk Life to do. 
Ms K has agreed with Suffolk Lifes reduction in fees.  But she maintains Suffolk Life should  still be 
responsible for the accountants  fee. The matter is therefore with me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As Ms K has accepted the reduction in Suffolk Lifes fees, the issue I need to decide upon  is the 
accountants fee and whether Suffolk Life should be responsible for this.
The terms  and conditions of the SIPP state the following:
18.4 We will also be entitled  to charge  the following  costs to your SIPP:
a.all expenses incurred by us (including  claims, losses and liabilities) in acquiring, holding, 
disposing of, transferring  or valuing any investment or other asset of your SIPP;
b.all fees,  commissions, charges, disbursements  (for example, stamp  duty land tax and land 
registry fees)  and other costs charged by any investment  manager, nominee, banker, 
custodian, third party  professional, mortgagee  or anyone else providing  related services or 
any agent (including  any financial adviser) appointed in relation to your SIPP or any part of 
your SIPP
I consider this to be clear. According to the terms and conditions of the SIPP, fees for third party 
professionals, such as Ms Ks accountant, should be charged to the SIPP.  
So my starting point here is that Suffolk  Life hasnt  done  anything  wrong in refusing  to pay the 
accountants fee. To come to a different conclusion,  I would essentially have to ignore the terms and 
conditions both parties  agreed upon and signed up to. I can do this. My remit  is to look at what is fair 
Ref: DRN89169497and reasonable, so I can look beyond a products  small print or contractual obligations. But doing  so 
isnt something  I can take lightly. 
Im also mindful  that in looking beyond the SIPPs terms and conditions I would, implicitly, be 
endorsing the view that Suffolk Life should pay an amount that it had no control over,  for a service 
that it had never  agreed to, delivered  by a provider  it had no say in choosing.  This may be the fair and 
reasonable outcome. But I would need particularly  compelling evidence  and arguments for taking 
such an approach. 
One of the arguments put forward by Ms K for why this would be a reasonable approach to take is 
that the lack of capability  at Suffolk Life meant the PSO wouldnt have been completed without the 
accountants input. In the circumstances, the argument goes, Suffolk  Life left Ms K with little choice 
but to appoint the accountant.  
However, I dont think theres enough  compelling evidence to say the PSO could  only have been 
completed with the accountants input.  The evidence  points to the usefulness of the accountant.  And 
he may well have accelerated the process. But the input of a professional  adviser was always  likely to 
have been beneficial. Thats not the test here. The test is whether the accountants involvement was 
essential to complete the transaction or essential to prevent the transaction drifting  to the point where 
serious repercussions would have followed. Im not seen enough to persuade me thats the case 
here. 
Even if the accountant  was necessary, I would  then need  to assess  whether  this was down to 
unreasonable capability gaps at Suffolk Life or whether the complexity of the PSO  was such that 
Suffolk Life couldnt really be expected to have  completed it without outside help. The former would  
suggest it wouldnt necessarily be fair for Suffolk Life to rely on its terms and conditions; the latter 
would suggest Suffolk Life was, unfairly, put in an awkward position  by the requirements of the PSO. 
As it is, I dont  need  to make a finding on this because I dont  think the accountant  was essential in 
getting the PSO completed in the first place. But it does show  the challenge  Ms K is facing here 
because even  if I thought the accountant  was essential in completing the PSO, it still wouldnt 
necessarily mean Id uphold her complaint.
Ive taken into consideration  the fact that Suffolk Life never  explicitly said it wouldnt pay for the cost of 
the accountant  when Ms K asked about this on a number of occasions  in June 2017.  Suffolk Life was 
non-committal at this point.  All it did was repeat  its message  that it would  review its fees when the 
PSO was completed. But this review only reported back to Ms K in November  2017, by which time the 
accountant had long since completed his work. So it could be argued that Suffolk Life gave tacit 
approval to Ms Ks use of the accountant. 
However, Suffolk Life never said it would pay the fee, or gave  any indication that this was something it 
was likely  to do. The terms and conditions referred to above shows what  Suffolk Lifes default position 
was  the SIPP  bears the cost of third-party advisers. Previous experience  of how the SIPP worked  
would have confirmed  as much to Ms K. And the fact that Ms K was asking about  the fee suggests  
she knew she couldnt rely on Suffolk Life to pay it. So I dont think Ms K could, reasonably, have 
thought she had been given the green  light to use the accountant and charge his fee back to 
Suffolk Life.
This doesnt absolve Suffolk Life from criticism. It should have been clearer  with Ms K on this issue 
when she raised it. Its thinking at the time was to review everything once  the PSO  had been 
completed. So it didnt want to commit to an answer at that point. But in taking this approach, and 
investigating Ms Ks concerns in the round, it didnt give an answer to Ms K on the issue  of the 
accountants fee until it was far too late. So it could have done better here. At the very least it could 
have issued a holding message to reiterate its terms and conditions state external  adviser  fees are 
settled by the SIPP. It could always have changed its mind at a later date, but at least  it would have 
indicated what would likely  have happened.
Ref: DRN89169498As it is, I dont  think Suffolk Lifes actions caused Ms K to lose out. I say this because even if Suffolk  
Life had given  Ms K an indication of what its default position  was on the issue of fees for third party  
professionals, I still think it likely Ms K would  have  gone  ahead and hired the accountant. As I said 
above, I dont think Ms K could, reasonably, have relied on Suffolk  Life absorbing  this cost  but she 
hired the accountant nevertheless.
 
In sum,  I would need compelling  evidence  and arguments to effectively  allow a consumer to invoice  a 
business for a cost that it never agreed to meet,  especially if that cost has previously  been agreed to 
be met by the consumer when  signing  up to the products terms and conditions.  The evidence and 
arguments Ive seen  here arent  sufficiently  compelling. It follows  that I dont intend to uphold  Ms Ks 
complaint. 
For the avoidance  of doubt, this doesnt  mean I think  Suffolk  Life has been faultless in executing the 
PSO. It clearly has made mistakes, has admitted as much and reduced its fees accordingly. All it 
means is that Im not persuaded  that Suffolk Life should pay the £5,520 fee for Ms Ks accountant.
Finally, my understanding is that Ms Ks SIPP has been charged for its share of Suffolk  Lifes fees 
and for its share  of the accountants fee. Therefore, if my final decision remains  along the same lines 
as my provisional decision,  there is no further action for Suffolk  Life to take.  However, it should  be 
noted that this is Ms Ks complaint. It isnt a joint complaint from Ms K and Mr A (even though Mr A 
has consented to us looking  into Ms Ks complaint). It means its possible Mr A will bring a complaint  
along similar lines with regards to his own SIPP or even  take alternative legal action.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN8916949