K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained about Scottish Widows Limited. She is unhappy about the way it 
distributed the death benefits payable from her late mothers pension.
background
Ms Hs mother, Mrs G, held a pension with Scottish Widows. Mrs G became ill and in 
December 2015,  when she knew her illness was terminal, she completed  a nomination. She 
nominated that Ms H should receive the death benefits payable  from the pension.
Then in February  2016 Mrs G married Mr G. She had been in a relationship with Mr G for 
around two years.
In July 2016 Mrs G made a will. She made some specific gifts including gifts to Ms H. The 
residuary beneficiary  of the will was Mr G.
Sadly, Mrs G died in September 2016.  Mr G applied for the benefits from the pension  to be 
paid to him. Scottish Widows considered his request and decided  to exercise its discretion in 
his favour. The full benefits  of the pension policy were paid to him in November 2016.
Ms H wasnt  told about this at the time. When  she became aware she questioned Scottish 
Widows decision. It explained that it had considered the nomination Mrs G had completed 
but it had discretion to decide  to whom the benefits were paid. It wasnt  bound by the 
nomination. It decided that the nomination had been superseded by her subsequent 
marriage. The marriage was a life change. It had also noted that she had made a will 
leaving the majority of her estate to Mr G.
Ms H said that Mrs G was engaged when she made  the nomination. There  was only a short 
period of time between the nomination and marriage and Mrs Gs intentions  hadnt changed 
and so the nomination was valid.
Scottish Widows  didnt  change its view and Ms H made a complaint to this service. The 
complaint was considered by an investigator but she didnt think Scottish Widows had acted  
unfairly. She explained that the pension terms gave it a discretion to decide where the 
benefits were payable. It wasnt bound by the nomination and it appeared to have exercised 
its discretion reasonably.
Ms H didnt agree. She pointed out that Scottish Widows had suggested that Mr G had 
received the majority of the estate but that wasnt true. She was the biggest  single  
beneficiary.  
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of this pension plan provided for Scottish Widows to use its 
discretion when deciding where death  benefits  should be paid. Mrs G had made a 
nomination in favour of Ms H but that nomination wasnt binding  on it.
Ref: DRN84307952Its not my role to decide if Scottish Widows  has made the correct decision and if not, to 
replace its decision  with my own. It wasnt obliged to follow the nomination. It has discretion  
to decide to whom  the benefits  are paid and in what proportion. I need to decide  if it 
exercised its discretion  properly, applied due diligence and acted reasonably  in reaching its 
decision.
I can understand Ms Hs position. She says that her mother was already engaged when she 
made the nomination and so she was contemplating marriage at that time. So, on that basis 
it should follow that the marriage itself shouldnt impact on the nomination.
And, with regard to the will, Scottish Widows has referred to Mrs G leaving the majority of 
her estate to Mr G. Ms H disputes that and says that in fact she was the major beneficiary.  
Mr G was the residuary  beneficiary of the estate, but it doesnt necessarily follow  that he was 
the majority beneficiary  and there is no suggestion that Scottish  Widows  actually  made any 
enquiry about  that or tried to establish precisely the respective inheritance  of Ms H and Mr 
G.
However, on my consideration of the evidence Im satisfied that the most significant factor in 
Scottish Widows  decision  making  process  was the marriage, and not the will. Its notes and 
records describe this as a life change which superseded the nomination.  And this seems  
to have been the primary factor in reaching  the decision that it did.
Overall, Im not satisfied  that Scottish Widows  has acted unreasonably in the exercise of its 
discretion. It may have  misstated the relative  interests of Mr G and Ms H in the will, but I 
dont think that factor alone is so significant  that it would have changed the decision it made.  
Im satisfied that it was acting reasonably  when  it considered the marriage  to be a life 
change which superseded the nomination.
So I agree with the investigator and broadly with her reasoning.  I dont uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8430795