K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bradford  & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold  them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 1985. But they werent sold PPI at that time, as B&B 
didnt offer this type of cover  then. A PPI policy was sold to them later, in 1989, when their 
mortgage had already  been running  for a number  of years.
This policy covered  their mortgage  repayments  if Mr D was unable to work  because of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy cost £11 a month and provided a potential 
benefit of £220 a month for up to twelve months. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with 
the adjudicators  view,  so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. Having done so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs D have said that when  they bought the PPI policy  they were given the 
impression that it would  help with their mortgage  application. As this PPI sale took place 
some years after Mr and Mrs D had already  obtained their mortgage  from B&B,  I think  they 
are mistaken in what they think happened  at the time. But this isnt that surprising, as the 
sale was so long ago and memories tend to fade over such  timescales.
Theres not that much information still available about this sale.  In these  circumstances, I 
need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened then, taking account of all the 
information which is still available. B&B has provided a copy  of the PPI application form 
which Mr and Mrs D signed in 1989.  Ive also seen a copy  of the welcome  letter they were 
sent after theyd  been accepted for cover.  So, from what Ive seen, I think  that Mr and Mrs D 
would have been aware at the time that the PPI was optional  and that they actively chose  to 
take it knowing they had a choice.
We know that, at around the time of this sale, B&B didnt normally  provide advice to its 
customers about the purchase  of PPI. And theres nothing to suggest to me that B&B 
recommended to Mr and Mrs D that they should take out PPI. This means it didnt  need  to 
ensure that the policy was suitable  for them. But B&B did still need to ensure that it gave 
Mr and Mrs D enough information for them to decide  if they wanted  to take it out. I think  its 
likely that the information  they received could have been better  than it was. But I dont think 
that better  information  would have changed  their minds about taking the PPI. I say this 
because:
Mr D appears  to have been  eligible for the PPI policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN80880572Mr and Mrs D say they dont think they needed the cover because  they had other means 
of making their mortgage repayments if Mr D was unable to work. But this policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to any other  means  they might  have had available  at the time. 
And a mortgage is a big financial  commitment, where ones  home is potentially  at risk. 
So I still think that Mr and Mrs D would have  valued the extra  security  that the PPI policy 
gave them.
Ive no reason to think that the PPI was unaffordable. And as the policys  premiums were 
paid monthly, Mr and Mrs D could have cancelled the policy  if it no longer met their 
needs.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs D have  lost out by anything  that B&B may have done wrong 
when it sold them this PPI policy.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because:  
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because B&B didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so. B&B should  also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs D any extra interest they paid because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before 
April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN80880573my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8088057