K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy Legal and General  Assurance Society Limited has declined her claim. 
Mr B has brought this complaint  on Mrs Bs behalf. 
background
On 24 September  2015 Mr and Mrs B applied for a decreasing  term assurance  policy  which 
included critical illness cover. When completing the application Mr and Mrs B answered No 
to the following question;
"Apart from anything  youve  already told us about in this application, during the last 5 years 
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or health  professional for: memory loss, dizziness or balance 
problems?
On 29 September  2015 Mr and Mrs B checked their application. After  reviewing the 
information, Mrs B told L&G about  her familys medical history  which  hadnt  been previously 
disclosed. 
Sadly, Mrs B was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS) in March 2018. The following 
month a claim was made  to L&G. But in November 2018 the claim was declined.  L&G said 
Mrs B hadnt  answered the above  question  correctly when she applied  for the policy. If she 
had answered  yes  it says it wouldve placed an exclusion on Mrs Bs policy  for MS. 
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs B made a complaint to L&G through  this service. L&G reviewed  
the complaint  but sent a final response  letter  dated  16 July 2019   upholding its decision to 
decline the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy. So they asked this service to review  L&Gs  decision.  Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint but felt L&G hadnt done anything wrong. He said the 
evidence showed  Mrs B had been  seen by a doctor, nurse, or health professional in relation 
to dizziness. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They felt the application  was misleading and they answered the 
questions in the application  honestly  as a whole  so this should be considered  an innocent 
mistake. Mr B said Mrs B was perhaps  confused whilst completing the application because 
of her MS.   
So, this complaint has now been  passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B have provided information and points as to why they think  they 
answered the questions correctly and to show there were  possible issues when completing 
the application. So I know my decision will come as a big disappointment to them, but Id like 
to explain my reasons.
Ref: DRN80521302In reviewing this case Ive considered the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately, CIDRA  sets out the remedies available  to the insurer.
So, the issues for me to consider are whether Mrs B has misrepresented  when taking out 
this policy. And if so, L&G needs to show it wouldnt have  offered the policy at all or on 
different terms.
was there  a misrepresentation in relation to Mrs Bs dizziness? 
I know Mr and Mrs B think the questions werent clear.  But having reviewed the application, 
Im satisfied the question  was sufficiently clear to allow  them to answer it correctly. L&G 
wanted to know  about any dizziness problems  Mrs B had in the last five years. And Im 
satisfied there were also clear and suitable warnings about the failure to answer these  
questions correctly during the sale. So, I believe L&G sufficiently brought these  to Mr and 
Mrs Bs attention. 
Having reviewed the medical records, Im also satisfied Mrs B didnt answer  the question  
correctly. I note from the records there were visits to the GP about vertigo and feeling 
lightheaded. And Mrs B had a CT scan in February  2012 for issues  she was having  with her 
ear. The records  also show  Mrs B had to visit a hospital three and half years  before the 
application. Although she was diagnosed with an ear infection at the time, she was 
experiencing vertigo and double vision. 
CIDRA requires me to consider  whether  a reasonable person wouldve made L&G aware  of 
Mrs Bs dizziness  problems when applying for the policy.  Having done  so, I dont think a 
reasonable person wouldve forgotten the above  when completing,  and then reviewing, the 
application when  considering the question L&G asked. 
I understand Mr B has raised a point  that it could be argued Mrs B was confused  whilst  
completing the application. Im afraid  I agree with the investigator  that this would need to be 
raised as a new complaint with medical evidence to L&G in the first instance.  So, I dont 
believe I can fairly assess that point here. 
What would L&G have  done differently?
L&G has treated  this mis-representation  as careless. Im not satisfied  Mrs B deliberately or 
recklessly misrepresented her medical history. So, I believe its appropriate to categorise  her 
actions as careless here. And under CIDRA,  when its found a consumer has made  a 
careless misrepresentation, L&G can take whatever action it wouldve taken if the correct 
answers had been given  at the point of application. 
Based on what we know about  Mrs Bs balance and dizziness problems, L&G has provided 
its underwriting criteria which shows if it was made aware of these, then it wouldve 
requested Mrs Bs medical records. Based upon her medical history,  it wouldve placed an 
Ref: DRN80521303exclusion on Mrs Bs cover for MS. So, Im satisfied its decision to retrospectively  apply this 
exclusion to this policy and decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim is fair and in line with what CIDRA  
sets out. 
So, Im not going  to ask L&G to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8052130