K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains about how NRAM  Limited have dealt with an application  to remove a joint 
borrower from an unsecured loan attached  to her main mortgage.
background
Ms T has a joint mortgage with and a linked unsecured  loan  both with her now ex-
husband.
Following a financial settlement being  agreed as part of the divorce, Ms T took steps to 
remove her ex-husband  from both the mortgage  and unsecured  loan.. In particular Ms T 
complains about:
The amount  of phone calls she received from NRAM.
That had to repeat information she had already given  NRAM.
Being  given conflicting information  about how much she needed to pay in full and final 
settlement of the unsecured loan.
That the offer to repay the loan in full and final settlement was declined   NRAM didnt 
understand why the offer was being  made.
Misleading information about an offer of repayment of the loan.
Not being  told that she needed to make an offer to repay the loan in full in writing.
Missed payments are showing incorrectly on her credit file.
Not being  able to remove her ex-husband from the loan and mortgage. NRAM  wont  
explain clearly what she needs  to do.
The collections department continue to contact her even though an arrangement is in 
place.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said NRAM should  pay Ms T 
£500 to reflect the amount of errors, misinformation  and stress caused  to Ms T. In addition it 
should show that the payments in May and July 2018 were  made  on time.  
Ms T accepted what the investigator  said. NRAM did not. It said it had reviewed the case  
and feels its offer of £50 was fair and reasonable.
On review, the investigator  thought  that the credit file did not have to be amended as it 
correctly reflected the position of the mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN82583712NRAM hasnt given  us any reasons  why it considers its offer of £50 was fair and reasonable. 
I dont consider it goes  far enough to compensate  Ms T for the mistakes  it made.
NRAM knew Ms Ts situation. I can see how she might be classed as vulnerable  in respect  
of her circumstances.  But it doesnt  appear  that NRAM  took any care to treat her sensitively. 
In fact, the approach it took sometimes disjointed   and its communication  was at times 
poor.  
For example, it attempted to call Ms T a number of times each day after she had spoken to it 
and explained  that an offer had been  accepted  on the property  and there was unlikely to be 
any new information available. While  those were  only attempts to call, I find the number and 
frequency of the attempted calls would have the potential to cause distress. And bearing in 
mind in the circumstances  of this complaint they were unreasonable,  I consider that NRAM 
should pay compensation for that.
There was a further instance  where NRAM sent a letter threatening legal action  where an 
arrangement was in place. And there was further avoidable  confusion about whether 
payment arrangements  had been agreed or not. Ms T has had to repeat herself a number of 
times and been  passed between departments.  While it is reasonable for a lender to obtain 
up to date information from time to time, I can see Ms Ts point. She also made a reasonable 
request for the details of her income  and expenditure it had recorded. There is a room  for 
some confusion when  obtaining these details  over the phone  and I think this was a 
reasonable request that NRAM ought to have fulfilled.
There was also a lot of confusion surrounding  the offer to make  payment to the unsecured  
loan in full and final settlement of it. Ms T had a number of conversations with NRAM where  
it didnt tell her it needed  the request in writing. It also knew  or ought to have known  that 
Ms T wanted to remove her ex-husband from the mortgage. But it didnt  tell her until very 
late in that process  that she may not be able to do so if NRAM accepted a reduced 
settlement figure from her. I dont  think the decision NRAM made not to accept a reduced 
amount in settlement of the loan was unreasonable based on the information available  to it  
although it could  have been clearer about  its position form the start. But it caused  Ms T a 
great deal of inconvenience  and upset in the way it communicated what  was happening. 
NRAM ought to have been more  sensitive to Ms Ts situation and have understood the 
position she was in. 
Ms T says that NRAM has incorrectly  recorded two missed payments on her credit file for 
May and July 2018. The information she has provided shows  that NRAM submitted no data 
for May 2018. The information recorded  in July 2018  is unclear. It appears that the arrears  
were more than one months payment  throughout  that period. I accept there may have been 
some confusion about what payments Ms T was making under an arrangement. But even if 
she was paying  a month ahead as the investigator said, there is clearly  a missed payment in 
May 2018  whether that was for May or June. So I cant say it would be inaccurate for that 
show on her credit file. 
I also agree  that NRAMs communication was poor in relation to what Ms T needed to do to 
remove her ex-husband  from the mortgage. NRAM had the ability to do this when it was in 
Ms Ts best interests. Based on the information  it held I consider it unlikely to have been in 
her best interests  overall. But again  NRAM has failed to set out in a clear and fair way what 
Ms T needed to do. 
Ref: DRN82583713NRAM has an obligation to communicate  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way. That is 
especially important where  a borrower has experienced  financial difficulty, is in arrears  or is 
in a vulnerable  situation   and a reasonable lender  should understand that. Ms T was 
making important financial  decisions based on the information she was given. I can see why 
Ms T was frustrated  and upset by her experience of dealing with NRAM over the period in 
question  and also that her hopes  were raised  that she would be able to repay the 
unsecured loan and remover  her ex-husband from the mortgage, when NRAM ought to have  
known this wasnt possible.
After carefully considering  everything that has happened (including  the points Ms T has 
made about the difficulty of giving a third party authority to deal with her account) and the 
impact on Ms T, including the stress  it caused her, I agree with the investigator that NRAM 
should pay her £500  to reflect the trouble and upset she experienced as a result of this 
matter. 
I understand that Ms T has now repaid the mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that NRAM Limited should pay Ms T £500 for any trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8258371