K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was charged  a fee by Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) 
following a withdrawal from his ISA account,  which he thinks is unfair. He also complained 
that following  his withdrawal, the interest  rate on his account was reduced.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr A and Nationwide so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned  
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues. 
However in summary  it is this; 
Mr A said he wanted to do an internet transfer  from his ISA account but was told that he 
couldnt and would need to visit his branch, which he did. When he went  there he was told 
he had four options, but the only one suitable  for him was to make  a Telegraphic  Transfer 
(TT), which cost £20, and which he thought  was unfair. And he feels because of this charge 
being applied  Nationwide viewed that as a second withdrawal and reduced the interest rate 
on his account  from 1.41%  to 0.25%. Mr A said he also felt that the manager he spoke  to in 
branch was uncaring and dismissive.
Nationwide said that the TT charge was applied in accordance with their terms and 
conditions and so was fair. It also said that its manager had not acted in the way Mr A 
suggested.
Mr A was unhappy with Nationwides response and so the adjudicator looked into the 
complaint but didnt  think Nationwide  had acted unfairly. As Mr A didnt agree, the complaint 
has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. Equally we are not a court service. 
What I need to decide is whether Nationwide acted  fairly in its dealings  with Mr A. I take into 
account both Nationwide s view and that of Mr A, and I consider the evidence  and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair, and reasonable  decision based  on that evidence. Where  
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound  to reach a decision on 
the balance of probabilities  in other words, I consider what is more  likely to have happened  
in the light of that evidence and the wider  circumstances of the case. Looking at the 
available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr A and Nationwide , and reach what I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. Looking at the available  
evidence, I think we have  an unfortunate situation here. 
Ref: DRN87462742I have looked  at the terms and conditions applicable to Mr As account and it is clear that a 
TT payment must be done in branch and there will be a fee payable. I know Mr A feels  this is 
unfair and that other financial institutions  operate differently, but the point is that this is what  
he agreed to when he opened  the account.  I cant say therefore that Nationwide  have  acted 
unfairly in demanding the fee. Like our adjudicator I can see that there  were  other  ways  that 
a withdrawal could  have been  made and the reason they werent suitable for Mr A was that 
none of them suited his needs  at that time. However, that does not mean Nationwide acted 
unfairly.
Nationwide have also confirmed that the interest rate did not drop on Mr As account. He has 
not therefore lost out. Our adjudicator did invite Mr A to provide further evidence to support 
his fears  about  the interest  rate drop but he didnt.
In relation to Mr As complaint about the demeanour  and attitude  of the branch manager, I 
have seen a statement from the manager who dealt with Mr A when he visited  the branch.  
Clearly I was not present at the time and so it is difficult to determine what actually occurred.  
However, whilst  Mr A feels the managers approach fell short  of the service he expected to 
receive, the manager has denied being aggressive or arrogant.  In fact he confirmed he 
offered to print the terms and conditions for Mr A but that offer was declined.  So, I think  this 
shows the manager was trying  to be helpful,  and on balance I cant  say there is any 
evidence to show that the manager was uncaring  or dismissive.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8746274