K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
Mr L took out an MPPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2000. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ls case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint because:
Theres limited  information available about the sale of the MPPI. Thats understandable 
given how long ago it was. 
Theres not enough evidence for me to conclude that Lloyds didnt make Mr L aware that 
he had a choice  about buying the MPPI, and that he chose to take it. I appreciate he 
doesnt remember agreeing to MPPI, or it even being discussed.  But the sale occurred 
over 18 years ago, so I dont think it would  be fair to uphold the complaint solely based 
on his memory. 
Its most  likely that Lloyds recommended the MPPI  to Mr L. Mr L had no sick pay through 
his work.  And while he may have received a few months pay if he was made redundant, 
the MPPI  wouldve paid his mortgage  for up to 12 months. Thats  much  longer than any 
sick or redundancy  pay hed have received, and wouldve  meant he could use such pay 
for other  things. So I think it was right for him based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time.
I appreciate that Mr L says his parents wouldve met his mortgage repayments. But such  
help wouldnt have  been guaranteed. It wouldve depended  on their circumstances if he 
was unable to work.  So I dont think this potential source of help means the MPPI  was 
unsuitable for him.
I think its likely that Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr L would still have bought it. He had no other guaranteed way of 
paying his mortgage  if he couldnt  work.  So I think hed have thought  the cover was 
worthwhile. I appreciate Mr L says he hasnt  taken MPPI on subsequent mortgages, but 
that doesnt necessarily mean he didnt choose on this one, when he was a first time 
buyer. 
Ref: DRN83915182Its possible that Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr L 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ls comments. But these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8391518