K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997. 
Mr B paid a monthly  amount of £19 for the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of Mr Bs application for the PPI. Due to the time thats 
passed, I dont  think thats surprising or unreasonable. But Ive seen the loan 
assessment form completed  by Lloyds adviser  at a meeting with Mr B. Theres a box to 
tick if the applicant  decided to take out PPI. The box is ticked. I think its more likely  than 
not that this followed a discussion  with Mr B about  his needs, and that the box was ticked  
because he indicated  that he wished to take the cover. So on balance, I think Lloyds 
made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. I acknowledge that Mr Bs told 
us hed have been entitled  to six months full pay, followed by six months half pay from 
his employer at the time if hed been  off sick. But the PPI policy  would have covered his 
monthly mortgage payments for up to 12 months  per successful claim  for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Thats longer than Mr Bs told us hed have  been  entitled to 
full sick pay for. Whats more, it would  have paid out in addition to any payments from his 
employer, allowing him to use those to meet other living expenses. And he wouldnt have 
had to use his savings to make  his monthly mortgage payments.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI would have provided valuable  peace of 
mind for Mr B that his mortgage  would continue to be paid if he was off sick, or if he lost 
his job. And I think that would  have been important to him, as the mortgage  was a long-
term financial commitment, secured on his property.
Its possible  Lloyds  didnt point out the main  things  the policy didnt cover for example, 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment arrangements.  But from what  hes 
told us about his circumstances  at the time, its unlikely  Mr B would have been affected  
by any of these.
Ref: DRN88019732It may be that Lloyds  could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
Ive explained  that Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr B chose to take the PPI. So it looks  
as if he wanted  the cover at the time, even if hes understandably  forgotten that now, so 
many years later.  And Ive seen  nothing to suggest that he couldnt  afford  it. So even if 
hed been given better information about  the cost of the policy,  I think  hed still have 
bought it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8801973