K820x#14complaint
Miss T and Mr R have complained that Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) has unreasonably 
refused to pay their claim under their pet policy.
Miss T has been the main correspondent  so for ease of reference  I shall mostly just refer to 
her throughout this decision.
background
Miss T bought this policy  for their dog with a start date of 29 September  2017. Her dog 
underwent an x-ray at the vets on 1 October 2017  due to pain issues  in his right hind leg. 
The vet said the x-ray showed extensive  inter-vertebral disc disease and Miss Ts dog would 
need strict  rest and pain medication.  Miss Ts dog recovered well.
In July 2018, Miss Ts dog had significant  problems walking and was rushed to the vet, 
where he was referred to the vet college neurology unit, and he was diagnosed with an 
intervertebral disc extrusion in his cervical spine,  which needed an operation to remove it. 
And it was for this, that Miss T made a claim to RSA. 
RSA investigated  the claim and decided that since Miss Ts dog was diagnosed with 
extensive inter-vertebral disc disease on 1 October  2017, the condition of this claim was 
linked to that. So as this extensive disc disease was diagnosed within  the first 14 days of the 
policys start date, that meant Miss Ts claim would not be paid given the 14-day exclusion in 
the policy.
Miss T was very distressed by this and brought their complaint to us. The investigator was of 
the view that RSA hadnt done anything wrong  in refusing to pay the claim. Miss T and Mr R 
disagreed so their complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
The vet history for Miss Ts dog, begins in October  2015 and the policy shows  cover  started  
on 29 September 2017. Miss T brought the premier cover which provided £7,500 vet fees 
cover for each policy year, with an excess of £200  being payable for each different illness or 
injury in each policy  period.  On the second  page of the schedule, which Miss T would have 
received, it says the following:
You accept  that the policy wont insure:
.
Any changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or behaviour  
within the first 14 days of the cover start date. We wont  pay for these 
changes or any illness  or injury  that develops from these changes. This 
exclusion only applies in the first policy period for a pet.
Ref: DRN82575402This is also stated clearly in the policy booklet at the first instance of any discussion of the 
actual provisions of the premier cover, which Miss T had bought.  Therefore, I consider this 
was adequately brought to Miss Ts attention.
This type of exclusion is contained and detailed in almost all pet policies, so I dont find it at 
all unusual.  But, I do appreciate Miss T believes differently. The reason  for this exclusion is 
that most  insurance  policies, to include this one, permit the policyholder  to cancel the policy 
without any sanctions  in the first 14 days, commonly called a cooling off period. 
Consequently, it wouldnt be right given such cancellation rights, that the insurer  should then 
deal with any claim, which arose within the first 14 days. So this isnt an exclusion to catch  
policyholders out, its merely to give appropriate effect to the policyholders rights to cancel 
the policy in the cooling off period. So its a logical  consequence of the policyholder being 
able to avail of a cooling off period.
Therefore, I think regardless of which pet insurer  Miss T had bought her policy from, its 
extremely likely she would  have faced a similar exclusion. Such an exclusion isnt one that 
only RSA as an insurer includes  in its pet policies, its an industry wide practice and for 
cogent reasons.
The next issue to decide is about  whether  RSA did anything wrong in deciding  the condition  
from which Miss Ts dog suffered, giving rise to the claim was either  connected to the 
condition diagnosed in October  2017 or developed  from that injury.
My role is simply to assess whether the decision RSA made was reasonable bearing  in mind 
the evidence.  Its clear that in October  2017  Miss Ts treating local vet said on her dogs vet 
history the following after the x-ray:
Various hemi vertebrae/butterfly vertebrae,  various overtly narrowed  disc spaces, 
numerous calcified  disc spaces, several portions of calcified disc material extruded  
dorsally towards the spinal cord and extensive  inter-vertebral disc disease.
The discharge summary from the referral vet following  the operation in July 2018 on Miss Ts 
dog said:  
Based on the history  and our clinical examination findings, disc disease  was the 
most likely differential (my emphasis)  . MRI of the cervical spine identified a C4-
C5 disc extrusion
Given both vets are talking about disc disease,  the first being diagnosed  within  the 14 days  
of the policy  starting,  I dont think RSAs initial refusal to pay this claim on 9 August 2018  
was unreasonable.
Following RSAs refusal to pay her claim,  Miss T contacted the referral  vet who performed 
her dogs operation  in July 2018. That referral  vet wrote back saying: 
Radiographic evidence  of intervertebral disc degeneration does not necessarily 
equate to intervertebral disc extrusion and therefore the two conditions cannot  be 
directly related. Furthermore, changes identified in one area of the vertebral column 
do not necessarily indicate  disease  elsewhere and intervertebral disc extrusion 
cannot be definitively diagnosed based  on radiographs alone. I can confirm  I have 
Ref: DRN82575403not reviewed the radiographs in question however and therefore I am unable  to make 
any specific comments regarding the interpretation  of imaging results in this case.
This is at odds with what she wrote  on the discharge  summary. So I consider in these 
circumstances, it was then reasonable that RSAs  vet went  to back  to the referral vet for 
further clarification,  as he thought there had been some  miscommunication. Further it should  
be noted that the clause  doesnt ask for a direct  relationship between  conditions, it simply 
wont provide cover  for something  that develops from the changes  noted in the first 14 days  
of cover.
He said what RSA needed to determine was whether [the dogs] previously diagnosed 
extensive intervertebral disc disease was the cause  of/or related to the intervertebral disc 
extrusion. The treating  local vet believed they were  connected so did [this referral vet] 
consider that the previously diagnosed disease was the reason of the C4-C5 disc extrusion? 
If not, he asked her to provide medical  reasoning as to why not and explained he would not 
be able to overturn  the decision in the absence of a reply from her.
She replied  saying yet again that she hadnt  reviewed the initial x-rays taken in October 
2017. I dont understand why she didnt ask to review the initial  x-rays taken in October 2017 
at this stage. Nevertheless, she said she saw no direct connection  between  the dogs  
cervical intervertebral disc extrusion and the previously  reported radiographic evidence for 
three reasons. The first because such evidence didnt necessarily equate to intervertebral 
disc extrusion so the two conditions cant be directly  (my emphasis) related. The second, 
because you cant definitively diagnose  such disc extrusion on radiographs alone. And the 
third because changes  identified in one area of the vertebral  column  dont necessarily 
indicate disease elsewhere.
RSAs vet then asked the referral vet for the MRI findings and the surgery findings as neither 
were detailed in her discharge  letter. Once he finally received these - as it seemed to take 
some time for the referral  vet to release them - he told the referral vet that the MRI findings, 
which she took of Miss Ts dog, described degeneration  of all discs. The extruded material  
between C4-C5 was very  hypointense in signal intensity almost as signal void,  suggesting 
possible of (sic) calcification. So this was very similar to the initial x-ray report  in October 
2017. 
He noted that she had previously said the C4-C5  disc extrusion was likely secondary to 
degeneration of the intervertebral disc. He noted that as in the case with many short-legged 
dogs, radiographic changes indicative of disc disease included  narrowed disc space and 
mineralised material. He agreed that radiographic  changes dont diagnose disc extrusion, 
but he noted they do highlight areas  affected by disc disease that are at greater  risk of 
extrusion. And the x-rays taken by Miss Ts local vet in October  2017  identified narrowed 
disc space at C4-C5. He noted that the referral vet had stated previously  that the most 
logical explanation for the dogs disc extrusion at C4-C5 is that it had occurred secondary to 
the underlying  disease  degeneration that is inevitably affecting the dogs whole spine.
Therefore, he concluded  reasonably in my view, that the disc disease  initially  diagnosed in 
October 2017 was consequently related to the eventual disc extrusion,  as there was no other 
diagnosis put forward by the referral  vet.
So on this basis he said he couldnt overturn  RSAs decision to refuse to pay this claim.  He 
said if the referral vet disagreed, she was welcome to respond but otherwise  the case  review 
will be closed.  There is no more correspondence from the referral vet to RSA. 
Ref: DRN82575404So Im satisfied given  the initial x-ray results in October 2017 and indeed the discussion of 
the actual MRI findings in July 2018  that sadly for Miss Ts dog, he has suffered from disc 
disease which the referral vet initially  said in her discharge summary was the most likely  
differential as in cause  of his C4-C5 disc extrusion.
Therefore, I dont consider that RSA did anything wrong in refusing to pay this claim,  since 
this disc disease was first diagnosed in the first 14 days of the policy start date. I also think 
RSAs vet was reasonable to make the enquiries of the referral vet, which  he did in order  to 
ensure clarification of the issue.
  
my final decision
So whilst I do understand Miss T and Mr R will be deeply disappointed, its my final decision 
that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257540