K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains about problems he experienced with Cofunds  Limiteds  (Cofunds) trading 
platform (previously referred to by me by another business name)  between early May and 
early September 2018 inclusive. He says these problems caused  him a financial loss, 
trouble and upset.  
background
Cofunds issued  Mr F with a final response letter (FRL) in June 2018  in which it apologised 
for the platform issues he had experienced. It sent Mr F a gift voucher.
Cofunds issued  Mr F with a further FRL in September 2018 in which  it again  apologised  for 
the platform issues he had experienced. Cofunds  sent Mr F £100 for any trouble and upset 
caused and refunded three months worth of platform charges.
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. But as a satisfactory resolution 
couldnt be reached the complaint was passed  to me for review  and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in January  2019.  In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Its clear Mr F has very strong feelings  about  this matter. He has provided  detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr F will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr F experienced platform problems  between early May and 
early September 2018 and that he should  be fairly compensated for any trouble and upset 
this might have caused him. But Im not persuaded that he has suffered a direct  loss as a 
result of the platform problems he experienced which [Cofunds] should have to compensate  
him for.
Mr F says that he sold a holding he held (in a stock  that I will call B) by way of a written 
switch instruction form in late July 2018. But what he wanted to do was sell his holding in B 
(online) in early  May 2018.
But even if I was to accept what Mr F says on this point Im not persuaded it would be either 
fair, or reasonable,  to hold [Cofunds] for the loss of approximately £250 he says he has 
suffered.
Ref: DRN80317802I say this because  if Mr F was able to submit a written switch  instruction form in 
late July 2018  to sell his holding in B, I cant see why he couldnt have done so in 
early May 2018.
Furthermore for every profitable trade that Mr F might have been deprived from making as 
a result of the platform problems he experienced there is the real possibility that he was also 
prevented from making a loss making  one.
On this point I can see that on his written switch instruction form dated late July 2018 Mr F 
requested the part sale of three other stocks (that I will call C, D and E). Now I appreciate 
there may be good reasons  as to why Mr F hasnt  complained about the sale of these three  
stocks, but its my understanding that stock C and D rose in value between early  May and 
late July 2018  and stock E remained stable, or rose very slightly  in value, between 
early May and late July 2018.
As I say above its only fair that Mr F be compensated for any trouble and upset he might  
have been caused as a result of the platform problems he experienced.  But taking 
everything into account Im satisfied  that what [Cofunds] has already paid him (in cash, 
refunds and vouchers)  is sufficient.
Cofunds responded to say it agreed with my provisional findings and had nothing further to 
add.
Mr F responded to say he didnt agree with my provisional findings. He said that he was 
unaware, until late July 2018, that he could request the purchase, sale or switch of stocks he 
held by way of a written  instruction. And because of this its only fair that Cofunds refund him 
the loss he is claiming (on stock B) of approximately £250.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings  and I now confirm them as final.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont underestimate Mr Fs strength of feeling about this 
matter. Mr F says he was unaware,  until late July 2018, that he could request the purchase, 
sale or switch of stocks  he held by way of a written instruction. But in my view had Mr F 
made it clear  to Cofunds, in any of the calls and emails that he says he made and sent,  that 
he was looking to purchase, sell or switch stocks and that he couldnt do so (because of the 
platform problems he was experiencing) Cofunds  would have explained what  other options 
(such as submitting  a written instruction) were  available to him. And in this respect its my 
understanding that Mr F hasnt said that he told Cofunds, prior to late July 2018,  that he was 
looking to purchase,  sell or switch stocks. 
I would also reiterate that every profitable  trade  that Mr F might  have been deprived from 
making as a result of the platform  problems he experienced there  is the real possibility  that 
he was also prevented from making  a loss making one.
So taking everything into account I dont think it would be either fair or reasonable for me to 
direct Cofunds to pay Mr F the loss on stock B he is seeking of approximately  £250.
Ref: DRN80317803In response to my provisional decision Mr F seems to suggest that he might have 
experienced further problems since early September 2018. However even if this is the case  
this would be a new complaint and one that Mr F would  need to raise  with Cofunds in the 
first instance. And if Mr F was to refer this new complaint to us, after first giving Cofunds the 
opportunity to consider it, it would need to be considered by us under a separate and distinct  
reference number.
my final decision
My final decision is that Cofunds  Limited need  do nothing further in this case.
Mr F doesnt have to accept my decision, but whether he does or doesnt,  I would  point out 
that this represents  the last stage of this services dispute resolution procedure
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8031780