K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004. Mr M says Yorkshire Building Society, trading as Chelsea Building  Society  mis-
sold him the PPI. 
In my decision Ill refer to Yorkshire as the seller.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr M case.
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Yorkshire made it clear  that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this. Mr M took 
the mortgage out over a year before he took the PPI  so its clear that one wasnt 
conditional on the other.  
 Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed so that he could 
make that decision for himself.
 Its possible the information Yorkshire gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks  like he wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so it would have  
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Yorkshire didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN87737182Ive thought about everything Mr M has said  including what hes said about  his fairly 
generous sick pay entitlement, and his secure  job. But given  the importance of a financial 
commitment such  as a mortgage, and as the PPI wouldve paid out for up to a year in the 
event of a successful claim, I still think the policy couldve  been useful to Mr M. 
Mr M has also mentioned that our adjudicator referred to how Yorkshire would have  told 
him about the PPI policy  rather than did tell him. 
As Ive said,  in cases where  evidence is incomplete,  or matters  are in dispute, our approach 
is to think about  whats most likely to have  happened   even when we cant be sure of the 
facts. And given the documentation Yorkshire  has provided, such as a checklist it completed 
during the call when it sold the PPI, I agree that its more likely than not that PPI was 
discussed before Mr M agreed to it.
So Im afraid  I dont think Yorkshire mis-sold  this policy to Mr M.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire should  also pay back to Mr M any extra interest  he 
paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month because the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should also pay Mr M 
8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8773718