K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a car he had financed through a hire purchase agreement with Black 
Horse Limited (Black Horse) was of unsatisfactory quality.
background
In August  2018  Mr M acquired  a second had car. The car was some five years old and had 
done just over 45,000 miles.  The car cost £11,297  and Mr M financed £9,797 of this cost 
and £899 for insurances, by way of a hire purchase  agreement with Black  Horse. 
Mr M was required to make under his agreement with Black Horse 60 monthly payments of 
£238.98 (being  £218.89  for the car and £20.09  for insurances).
In March 2019, following a number of quality issues with the car, Black  Horse accepted the 
return of it and paid Mr M £2,482.92. This sum of £2,482.92 was made up of the following:
£1,500 deposit
£716.94, representing three  monthly agreement payments  of £238.98 (out of a total 
of six made by Mr M)
£200 for distress  and inconvenience
£65.98 interest
Mr M was unhappy with the sum Black  Horse paid him so referred a complaint to our 
service.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He concluded that what Black  
Horse had done and had paid Mr M was, in all the circumstances, fair and reasonable.
Mr M didnt  agree and so his complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant  law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt,  then Black Horse  is 
responsible and required to put things right. 
Ref: DRN81385162Having looked  at what both parties  have said and submitted, Im satisfied that the car wasnt  
of satisfactory quality when supplied. Ive come to this conclusion having had regard, 
amongst other things,  to the fact that Mr M reported  issues with the engine  to the supplying 
dealership one month after taking delivery  of the car and that the supplying dealership 
confirmed, five months after Mr M took delivery  of the car, that a replacement engine,  timing 
belt, gasket and filter were required.
Having found  that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality when supplied,  what  I now need to 
decide is whether  Black  Horses offer of redress was fair and reasonable.
Black Horse  allowed Mr M to return the car and paid him £2,482.92. And taking everything 
into account, I agree that that this was fair and reasonable.
Mr M, in essence, disagrees  with Black Horses decision  to refund only three of the six 
monthly agreement payments he had made  (rather  than all six) and to pay him only £200 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
I accept that for the six months Mr M was meeting his payment  obligations  under his 
agreement with Black Horse he had restricted use of the car because  of the faults  with it, 
and that this would have  caused him both distress and inconvenience.  
But equally  I can see that Mr M had some use of the car and was able to travel  3,000 miles 
in it. Its only fair that he pays for the use he has had and that he has been kept mobile for 
around six months, albeit  not the experience he would have hoped  for. So with this in mind,  
and given that its my understanding that Mr M was provided with a courtesy car for some  of 
the time,  Im satisfied that Black Horses decision to refund  only three monthly  agreement  
payments made (rather than six) was fair and reasonable. I would also add that the retention  
by Black Horse of three  of the six payments  made by Mr M is to reflect his use of the car, not 
to reflect  any depreciation in its value.
I accept that being  supplied  with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality  caused  Mr M some 
distress and inconvenience because, by way of example,  he had to make a number of visits 
to the supplying dealership, he didnt always have the benefit of a courtesy  car whilst his was 
off the road and because at the material time his partner was pregnant.  But taking everything 
into account I think that Black Horses  payment of £200 for this was fair and reasonable and 
in line with the award Id have made here.  
For the sake of completeness I would add that the fact that the supplying  dealership  
replaced the engine and then sold the car on for the same or similar  price  to what Mr M 
originally paid for it isnt material to my consideration of this complaint. As pointed out by the 
investigator, what Im required to consider  here is the loss (whether financial or otherwise) 
suffered by Mr M in being supplied the car that he was in the condition that it was and 
whether he has been  adequately compensated for the same.
Ref: DRN81385163my final decision
My final decision is that having  paid Mr M £2,482.92  Black Horse  Limited  need pay nothing 
further. However Black Horse Limited must, to the extent it hasnt done so already,  remove 
any adverse information  from Mr Ms credit  file.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr M doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Black Horse  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8138516