K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) when his 
debit card was replaced.
background
M S brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy  with the response hed received from 
HSBC when he was due to receive a replacement card for his account with them.
HSBC told us they didnt think theyd done  anything wrong. To support this they sent us 
records of their email conversations with Mr S between December 2018 and May 2019 along  
with screenshots  detailing  the dispatch  of cards to Mr S on 29 December 2018, 29 January, 
11 March and 31 May 2019  at the addresses he advised. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She found HSBC had sent the first card to Mr S 
as per his instructions. She thought it was more  than likely the subsequent card wasnt  
delivered to Mr S as the overseas address he gave to HSBC  didnt contain his apartment  
number. So she was unable  to say HSBC made an error when they posted the card and she 
couldnt hold HSBC responsible for the delivery of the card as this was the role of the postal 
service.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide the case. He didnt think his 
tireless calling, messaging and being  left without cash had been  taken  into consideration. He 
said the point  about the apartment number wasnt valid as all post was delivered to the 
central office in his block and distributed by the management company. He said HSBCs 
proof of posting was not proof if the item was not delivered. He couldnt understand how 
HSBC could send  a letter about  an overdraft  securely but not his card.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion.  Theres not a great deal I can add to what shes already told Mr S. I think 
shes covered most points  quite clearly and I agree with her analysis  and overall 
conclusions.
The records  from HSBC satisfy me that the replacement cards have been sent to Mr S in 
accordance with his instructions and the details hes provided  to them. So although I 
acknowledge that Mr S said he did not receive  the cards  from HSBC, on balance,  I am 
satisfied they were sent and to the addresses he gave. I dont know why it is that Mr S hasnt  
been receiving  his mail, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible  for an external postal 
service over which they have no control. So I cannot safely conclude  that the non delivery of 
the cards  is as a result  of something  that HSBC has done wrong.
I know Mr S requested the card was sent either  to his PO Box business  address or by a 
named courier service but HSBC explained it was their policy  to do neither of these for 
replacement cards. Its not the role of this service to interfere in a banks policy.  Mr S now 
has his replacement card. I appreciate hes ultimately had to visit his branch in the UK whilst 
Ref: DRN81556362he was on a visit here. But for the reasons Ive explained I dont think  HSBC have done 
anything wrong  so I cant uphold this complaint.
Given how strongly Mr S feels about  what happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with HSBC informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr S.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8155636