K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains Sainsburys  Bank Plc (Sainsburys Bank)  wasnt helpful during her 
application for a credit  card and handled  her complaint about this poorly.
background
Mrs M applied for a Sainsburys Bank credit card as the interest free period on her existing 
card, issued by another business, was about to end. Sainsburys Bank sent her an 
agreement to complete  along with an envelope in which to return it.
Mrs M returned  the last two pages  of the agreement as she says the envelope was too small 
to return the whole agreement. Sainsburys Bank  told Mrs M  when she called for an update 
 that she should have  returned pages  23 to 28 and that it would have to send her a new 
agreement using second class post to complete and sign.  Mrs M asked if she could send the 
missing pages by email,  or if a new agreement could be sent by next day delivery.  
Sainsburys Bank said no  saying it couldnt  make  changes to its processes. Mrs M 
complained that Sainsburys  Bank wasnt being helpful, hadnt told her she should have 
returned pages 23 to 28 and hadnt sent her an envelope big enough to return the whole 
agreement. In the meantime Sainsburys Bank  sent Mrs M a new agreement  to complete 
and return.
Mrs M called  Sainsburys  Bank  having  returned pages 23 to 28 of the new agreement   to 
find out where her card was and to ask about her complaint. Sainsburys Bank said that her 
card was on its way and that it had closed her complaint  having  logged it as feedback. Mrs 
M wasnt  happy, saying that she should have received a written  response.  So Sainsburys 
Bank wrote to Mrs M saying that it wasnt upholding her complaint. Mrs M was still unhappy 
and so complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Ms complaint and said that they didnt think  
Sainsburys Bank had done anything wrong as it had followed its processes. Mrs M didnt 
agree, and so asked  for a decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Sainsburys Bank asked  Mrs M to return pages 23 to 28 of the original agreement it sent out. 
It did so in the covering letter Mrs M received with the original agreement   a copy  of which 
Ive seen. Im satisfied that the envelope Sainsburys  Bank sent was large enough to return 
pages 23 to 28 of the original agreement.  Its unfortunate that Mrs M returned  the last two 
pages. I can understand why she did  she didnt realise she was meant  to return  pages 23 
to 28 and the envelope was too small to return the whole agreement  but this wasnt as a 
result of any error by Sainsburys Bank.
Ive listened to the call when Sainsburys Bank explained to Mrs M that she hadnt  returned 
all of the pages she was meant to. I can understand why Mrs M wanted to email  the missing  
pages or have  a new agreement sent out by next day delivery   she was worried shed have 
to pay interest on her existing card if her new one wasnt issued quickly   but I dont think  
Sainsburys Bank was being  unhelpful. Sainsburys Bank explained why it had to receive the 
Ref: DRN84774482agreement all in one go, and why the new agreement would have to be sent by second  class 
mail. So I dont think  it would be fair to ask Sainsburys Bank to do more.
I can see that Mrs M is unhappy that she didnt get a written  response to her complaint  until 
she complained  about this. Shes  now received one. More importantly, I can see that 
Sainsburys Bank dealt  with all of Mrs Ms complaint points whilst she was on the phone. So 
I dont think Mrs M was caused material inconvenience because  she didnt get a written  
response until complaining about  this. Sainsburys Bank logged her complaint  as feedback  
as it said it would  and although it should have sent Mrs M a written response sooner, I 
dont think a written response  would  have added much as it had already dealt with all of her 
complaint points on the phone. So again  I dont think it would be fair to ask Sainsburys Bank 
to do more.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Jamie Sutherland
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8477448