K820x#14Complaint
Mrs I complains about information Barclays Bank UK PLC reported to the credit reference  
agencies concerning an account she use to have. 
Background
Mrs I had a current account  with a personal  reserve borrowing facility.  On 8 June 2011 the 
outstanding balance was £119.72.  Barclays has told us that it had previously removed the 
personal reserve facility  from Mrs Is account because she had gone over the agreed limit. 
As a result, Mrs Is account was reported  as being  in arrears. 
Mrs I says that she found out there  was an outstanding balance when she completed a 
credit search. The £119.72  balance was repaid in full on 12 May 2014 and Mrs Is credit file 
was updated to reflect that. 
In 2018 Mrs I complained  to Barclays about the sale of the reserve  facility, interest and 
charges that had been applied to her account  and the information it had reported to the 
credit reference agencies. Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Is complaint  so she referred it to our 
service and it was given to an investigator  to review. 
The investigator said some of the issues Mrs I raised happened too long ago for us to deal 
with. I confirmed the investigators position  in a jurisdiction decision dated 
12 December 2019 and explained  we could only look at the information Barclays  had 
reported from May 2012 onwards. The investigator  thought the information reported to the 
credit reference agencies was accurate so didnt  ask Barclays to change it. Mrs I remains 
unhappy so Ive been passed her case to issue  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I previously explained  why our rules  meant  we can only look at Barclays  actions from 
May 2012 onwards. In this decision,  Ill deal with the information Barclays  has reported since  
May 2012. 
Mrs I had an outstanding  balance of £119.72  going back several years. Barclays has 
explained that the reserve facility  had previously been removed as the limits had been 
breached. As a result, Mrs Is account  was in arrears during this period. Barclays says the 
information it reported accurately reflected that. 
Barclays also said that it had sent Mrs I annual statements about her account. I understand 
Mrs I says she wasnt aware  of the debt.  But, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that she did 
owe Barclays and that the debt had been  outstanding for several  years. I know  the account  
was shown as being in arrears but thats in line with what Barclays has told us about the way 
it was maintained. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs I but Im satisfied the information Barclays reported accurately 
reflects how her account was handled. I note that the account was repaid in May 2014  and 
that this information will drop off of Mrs Is credit file after six years  has passed  which  is 
reasonably soon. As Im satisfied Barclays has reported accurate information to the credit 
Ref: DRN80067902reference agencies  and has dealt with Mrs Is complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8006790