K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold him two packaged  
bank accounts.  He paid a monthly fee for the accounts which provided several benefits in 
return.
background
Before I explain my decision Ill outline Mr Ws account history with Co-op:
the account was opened as a fee-free account in August 2002
it was upgraded  to a Privilege packaged account in December 2002
it was further upgraded to a Privilege  Premier  account in September  2005
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Co-op mis-sold the packaged accounts to Mr W and 
didnt recommend that Co-op should  pay him any compensation. Mr W didnt agree so he 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ws complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ws complaint a lot of thought,  I dont  think the packaged bank account was 
mis-sold to him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr W was given  a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank  accounts. 
Mr W hasnt given specific complaint points in relation to each sale,  so Ive thought about 
both sales in relation  what  Mr W has said. 
When Mr W first raised his complaint with Co-op he said that he was told he had to take out 
a packaged bank account in order to be able to take out a mortgage. Co-op answered that 
complaint and Mr W responded. He then said Co-op  told him he had to take a packaged 
account to get better mortgage  rates.
I dont know what Mr W was told when he upgraded his account, but I do think he was aware  
he had a choice  about whether to take them out.
Mr W took his mortgage with Co-op  in October 2001. At that point he didnt have a Co-op 
bank account.  From the paperwork  Ive seen in relation  to Mr Ws mortgage, he received a 
fixed rate for six months, and the mortgage then reverted  to Co-ops Standard  Variable Rate, 
with a 0.2% discount as a result of the loan-to-value  of Mr Ws mortgage.
Ref: DRN82111332I havent seen  anything in the mortgage paperwork that suggests the rate of Mr Ws 
mortgage was related  to him holding  a packaged bank account  either at the point the 
mortgage started,  or in the future.
Mr W opened a fee-free  Co-op bank account in August 2002. He upgraded his account to a 
Privilege account  in December 2002,  and again to a Privilege  Premier account in September 
2005.
I havent got much information about when  the accounts were sold, but from everything  I do 
have, Im not persuaded that the only reason Mr W upgraded  his account was to either take 
out a mortgage,  or to get a better interest  rate. Mr W took his mortgage  before he took either 
of the packaged accounts, and theres  no suggestion in anything  Ive seen that Mr Ws 
mortgage rate was linked  to either of the accounts.  
Ive also seen sample copies of two letters that Co-op sent Mr W each time his account was 
upgraded. Co-op hasnt been able to provide the actual letters  it sent to Mr W, but it has sent 
records to show that the letters were sent,  and its sent the text that it says the letters 
wouldve included. I note that neither of the letters  refer to beneficial mortgage rates either.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded that Co-op told Mr W he had to upgrade 
his account to a packaged  account  in order to get, or keep  a mortgage, or to benefit from a 
preferential interest rate. 
I dont think that Co-op recommended  the packaged accounts to Mr W so it didnt have to 
check if they were suitable for him
But Co-op had to give Mr W enough clear information about the packaged  accounts  for him 
to decide if he wanted them. 
Its hard to know exactly why Mr W agreed to taking  the packaged bank accounts, but I think 
its likely  Co-op told him about their main benefits. After all, Mr W wouldve expected  to get 
something in return for the monthly  fees,  which hes said he was aware of. I can also see 
that the letters Co-op sent Mr W when he upgraded each time gave him an outline of each 
accounts benefits, and I dont think Mr W wouldve kept the accounts if he wasnt interested 
in anything they had to offer. I appreciate that he may not have used all the benefits, and 
with hindsight he might  not feel theyve been good  value for money, but this doesnt mean 
Co-op mis-sold them.
Its possible that Co-op didnt tell Mr W everything it should have about  the packaged 
accounts. But I havent seen enough  to make me think that Mr W wouldnt still have taken 
the accounts, even if Co-op had told him more about them.  
I want to reassure Mr W that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything hes said. But having done so I dont think  Co-op mis-sold 
the Privilege or Privilege  Premier accounts to him. So I dont think  it owes  him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Ref: DRN82111333Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8211133