K820x#14complaint
Mr B, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that Gain  Credit 
LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Mr B was given six instalment loans by Lending Stream  between 27 November 2015 and 
14 January 2018,  as per the following table:
Loan no.
Date taken Date repaid Amount
takenHighest combined 
instalment dueInstalments expected
1 27/11/15 01/04/16 £300 £144 6
2 01/04/16 15/04/16 £400 £173 6
3 14/11/16 22/12/16 £100 £48 6
4 11/12/16 22/12/16 £100 £86 6
5 15/04/17 08/05/17 £150 £68 6
6 14/01/18 25/01/18 £150 £64 6
Mr B says that loans  were  provided  without a full assessment of his income and expenses. 
He says the loan repayments  meant  he struggled to meet his normal  household expenses 
and needed to borrow further  from other short term loan providers creating a spiral of debt.
Lending Stream says that before providing each  loan it carried out affordability checks. It 
notes the loans provided were instalment loans repayable over six months and that it didnt 
offer rollovers. It says that it assessed  and verified Mr Bs income and expenses  and carried 
out credit  checks and that these showed  the loans were affordable. The loans were  all 
successfully repaid.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint as he didnt think Mr B had been treated 
unfairly. 
Mr B didnt accept our adjudicators view saying that further checks would  have shown the 
loans werent suitable.  Because  a resolution hasnt been reached this complaint has been  
passed to me, an ombudsman, to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out reasonable checks  to understand 
whether Mr B could  repay his loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ref: DRN83596052But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower  a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Lending Stream says it agreed to Mr Bs applications after he provided details of his monthly 
income and living costs. And this information didnt  suggest that Mr B wouldnt be able to 
make the repayments  he was committing to. And in these circumstances it wasnt  
irresponsible to lend.  
The information provided does suggest that Mr B was asked to provide details of his monthly 
income and expenses. I note the comments about  Mr Bs actual financial circumstances and 
that these would have been  apparent  had his bank statements  been  checked. However 
while Lending Stream  is required to carry out proportionate checks  this doesnt mean it is 
required to check Mr Bs bank statements. Mr B declared his net monthly income  at between 
£1,200 and £1,400,  and his monthly outgoings at between £423 and £725, when applying 
for these  loans. 
In addition, there were  significant breaks in the lending to Mr B. Between loans two and 
three there was a gap or around seven months and then between loans five and six a gap of 
around eight months. Given  these  gaps I think the loans can be considered as being parts of 
separate lending chains.  Given  the breaks  in the lending chain and the information that was 
gathered on Mr Bs income  and expenses, I dont think Lending  Stream  needed to take 
further steps to verify the information provided.  
Lending Stream relied on the information  it was provided with and given the cost of the 
repayments involved, together with Mr Bs declared  disposable income and the pattern of 
lending, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr Bs 
Ref: DRN83596053complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope  that hell at least 
feel his concerns have  been listened  to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019..
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8359605