K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy by National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
background
In 1997 Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage  with NatWest. At the same  time they took out 
a PPI policy in Mr Ws sole name to protect their repayments if Mr W lost his job or was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness. This policy was amended and the benefit  
increased in 2004 when  Mr and Mrs W took out further lending.
NatWest say the policy wasnt mis-sold in 1997  but have offered to compensate Mr and Mrs 
W for the difference in PPI premium from 2004  onwards  when the policy was amended and 
premium increased. This is because  Mr W suffered an injury in 2003 which  could have 
impacted his ability to claim  on the amended policy and the increased  benefit payable on a 
successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he thought the paperwork  
completed in 1997 suggested they had a choice in taking the policy  and thought it provided a 
useful benefit.  And he thought that the compensation offered was a fair way to settle their 
complaint.
Mr and Mrs W disagree. They say they werent  made aware the policy was optional  and 
didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
NatWest had to make  it clear the PPI was optional and not a condition  of the mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs W say this wasnt  done  but havent  given us much detail about what  was said at the 
time to make  them  think this. But I think thats understandable as the PPI was sold a while  
ago. So Ive relied more on what the documents from the time show  and what  I think  is most  
likely to have happened.
Only Mr W was covered by the policy but both Mr and Mrs W were jointly responsible for the 
mortgage and both were in employment. If PPI was compulsory  I wouldve expected  both 
parties to the mortgage would have to be covered  and it would be a condition  of the 
mortgage. But because  only Mr W was covered this suggests to me a choice was made to 
just cover one person.
Also the PPI policy was separate from the mortgage and payments were taken separately.  
Ive seen a copy  of the PPI direct debit mandate signed  by Mrs W. In bold at the top of this it 
describes the mandate as MORTGAGE REPAYMENTS PROTECTOR INSURANCE.  I 
think its likely Mrs W wouldve seen the mandate was for PPI and I dont think she would 
Ref: DRN80081582have signed it if they hadnt agreed  to take PPI. So on balance I think its likely Mr and Mrs 
W wouldve  understood  they had a choice in taking the policy  and they agreed to take it 
because they wanted the cover.   
I havent seen  anything to suggest NatWest advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy.  
What this means is that I dont think it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs W based on their 
individual circumstances,  it just gave them information about  PPI and it was up to them to 
decide if they needed it. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed  choice  about taking out the policy.
I dont know if NatWest  gave all the information as it shouldve.  But I think that Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve still taken out the policy if NatWest had done more  because:
Mr W was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt  look like he wouldve  been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.  
At the time of the sale Mr and Mrs W say they were entitled to a good level of sick 
pay and had shareholdings and equity  in property  they could use to make their 
repayments if Mr W couldnt work. But having to sell shareholdings  and extract equity 
out of a property  can be time consuming and costly and the policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of any work benefits and for potentially longer. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the policy wasnt affordable for them.  And if they 
decided they no longer wanted the policy they couldve cancelled it.
This means  Mr and Mrs W arent  any worse  off as a result of any wrong doing by NatWest. 
My understanding is that NatWests offer of compensation is still available,  I think  this is a 
fair offer and Mr and Mrs W should  get in touch  with NatWest should  they wish to accept it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against National 
Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8008158