K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the way Barclays Bank UK PLC processed their offset 
mortgage product  change  application.  It took them  off the current  mortgage  arrangement  (in 
relation to the offset) which was not what they had intended. They say they made every 
attempt to confirm  that this was not what they had agreed to or would agree to. Their 
requests were simply ignored  even though the offer stated quite clearly  that if they were not 
happy then they should get in contact,  which they did.
They feel there are two options  to resolve the issue. The first is to amalgamate the mortgage 
current account reserve (MAR) into the main mortgage at the current rate, or remove the 
early repayment charge  (ERC) to enable them to move  the entire borrowing elsewhere.
background
In 2010 Mr and Mrs F took out a Barclays offset  mortgage with an MAR. In 2017 they 
wanted to review the interest rate and consulted a broker. He presented  them with a fixed  
rate mortgage product with Barclays at a lower rate than their existing mortgage. They  say 
they left all of the administration of this application  with the broker and that on 27 November  
2017 the broker was informed by Barclays that the MAR would continue in the background.
On 11 December 2017 they received a change offer. A note said that if any details were 
incorrect they should contact Barclays immediately. On 14 December 2017 Mrs F contacted 
the broker. She told him there was no mention  of the MAR in the offer and instructed him to 
contact Barclays to inform  it of this oversight and that the details of the offer were incorrect.  
A few days  later Mr and Mrs F received a letter from Barclays  with a demand for payment of 
the outstanding balance  of the MAR. In addition,  payments had started coming out of their 
account despite the concerns theyd  raised.
The broker  contacted Barclays to inform it of the error and Barclays reinstated the MAR but 
at an interest rate of 4.99%, significantly more than the rate Mr and Mrs F had been paying  
and even more  than the new fixed rate. They say this was something theyd never have 
agreed to. It flew in the face of the exercise  they were trying to undertake, namely to reduce 
their monthly payments and change to a fixed rate. They say Barclays failed to provide full 
information by not including the details of the MAR.
If theyd been  told that this would be the outcome theyd never have  agreed  to those terms, 
theyd have simply amalgamated the balance  of the MAR with the main mortgage  to benefit 
from the same rate.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Barclays and gave  it authority to speak to the broker.  Barclays  
said the broker had told it he wasnt fully advised about the MAR facility.
Barclays said there had been two calls with the broker, on 9 November 2017 and 
27 November 2017.
On 9 November  Barclays had told the broker that if Mr and Mrs F switched from an offset 
mortgage to a 5 year fixed rate theyd  lose all the offset benefits. The broker had said hed 
make Mr and Mrs F aware of this before  proceeding with the rate switch.  What the broker 
understood the loss of offset benefits  to mean isnt clear from this conversation,  but it didnt 
ask for any further details  from Barclays.
Ref: DRN82392222On 27 November the broker had called again about  the MAR. Barclays  had provided  him 
with incorrect information. It had told him that in 2010 it didnt provide customers  with the 
MAR facility and that the MAR  wouldnt  be affected.  But in fact in 2010 customers were 
provided with an MAR  facility and Mr and Mrs F had taken this and it was linked to the main 
mortgage.
With regard to the MAR not being affected, the Barclays  adviser was referring  to the fact that 
when customers do apply  for a rate switch, the rate on the MAR doesnt change. The rate on 
the MAR only changes  when being removed  from an offset mortgage. Mr and Mrs F had 
gone from an offset mortgage to an interest-only 5 year fixed rate. Barclays had told the 
broker on 9 November that if this was the rate they applied for, their offset  benefits  would be 
removed. 
Barclays had paid £300 to Mr and Mrs F by way of apology for the inconvenience  caused 
and the incorrect  information.
Mr and Mrs F werent happy and brought their complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
recommended the complaint be upheld. She said that whilst Barclays  had relied on the 
correct information  having been provided  to the broker during the phone call on 9 November, 
she felt the advice given to him at a later date directly contradicted this. Therefore, despite  
being informed  the offset benefits would be removed  unless selecting a new offset product 
during the rate switch,  it was reasonable to accept that the broker  relied on the information  
he received on 27 November.
Therefore Mr and Mrs F werent  aware  the reserve facility would be removed, which 
significantly influenced the product they chose. Mr and Ms F had stated that despite the 
broker contacting  Barclays  on 14 December, they received  a letter  demanding repayment  of 
the reserve amount  in full. This must have been  extremely concerning for them  as they 
thought their reserve facilities would remain, and remain on the same interest rate as their 
mortgage, when  making  the decision to switch. 
The investigator said that whilst it appeared Barclays  had re-instated the reserve limit, the 
incorrect information given to the broker on 27 November resulted in Mr and Mrs F choosing 
a product which didnt  suit their needs. She believed Barclays should  put Mr and Mrs F in the 
position they would have  been in had the information error  not been  made.  In order to put 
things right, Barclays should reverse  the switch and re-instate the offset mortgage at the rate 
it was previously, without  imposing an early repayment charge.
Barclays didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. It said:
[Broker] was clearly aware that Mr and Ms F had an off-set mortgage with a reserve facility 
and in the first call mention was made of the different rates available  for offset mortgages 
and non-offset  mortgages. It is clear that Mr and Ms F wanted a five year fixed rate 
mortgage; the broker had the rates sheet and therefore was very well aware that at that time 
Barclays didnt offer a five year fixed rate product for customers that had an offset mortgage. 
[Broker] actually acknowledged that he understood that the customers would lose the offset 
benefits if they elected to take a non-offset five year fixed  rate product; he understood that 
Barclays didnt offer a five year fixed offset  product.
.by selecting  the five year fixed non-offset rate he was certainly aware that the offset 
facility would no longer be available (as he acknowledged during the first call).  I consider that 
Ref: DRN82392223he should have  spoken to the customers to check if they were actually using their MCA 
Reserve facility and that they would be happy to lose the offset  benefit  for their Reserve 
borrowing before  proceeding any further.  Had he done so then it is clear that Mr and Ms F 
would never  have agreed to accept the five year fixed rate on this basis.
.In the first call, it is clear the customers have  an offset mortgage and would lose the offset 
benefit by switching to a fixed rate. In the second  call, the broker  states the customers have 
no idea  what their reserve limit was. I dont think his question about the chosen reserve  
directly correlates as an enquiry as to the level of MCA  borrowing held. Our agent clearly 
says he is not able to get any details as the MCA is dealt with by servicing.  Furthermore, as 
above, this is something the broker should  have already  established from the consumers.
Knowing the customers were on an Offset  product, I would expect the broker to be aware 
this meant  any debit balance on a linked  account would be subject to the same  until such  
time the Offset product  was removed, as we explained in the call. It sounds like the broker  is 
confused at points regarding the nature of the product/borrowing and does even admit he 
would need to make customers  aware they would  be losing offset benefit.
Barclays suggested the broker should have  contacted Mr and Mrs F to check  that they would 
be happy to lose the offset benefits.  Therefore Barclays believed that the broker was at fault.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  either and asked for an ombudsman  to look at the case. They 
said: 
Barclays case  seems  to concentrate on the advice we were given by our broker and indeed 
whether our broker misinformed  us. What we would like the ombudsman to consider and 
take into account is the fact that we feel this is irrelevant given the statement in their original 
offer in December of last year.
In our original mortgage offer from Barclays, the letter clearly  stated  that if there was 
anything incorrect or wrong with the detail of the offer,  that we should inform them as soon 
as possible, which we did, furthermore Barclays also included the statement that, if we no 
longer wish to proceed with the mortgage, we should also inform  them,  which we by 
implication we did, because we were not happy to proceed on the terms of the offer Barclays 
proposed, therefore  we feel regardless  of what advice  Barclays offered our broker, the 
fundamental point  for us is that as soon as we received the offer,  we did exactly as Barclays 
requested and informed them of the error, Barclays failed  to honour the details set out in 
their own mortgage offer and simply proceeded with the transaction  regardless of our 
objection. Had Barclays acted in the manner in which they stated in the mortgage offer, we 
would not be in this position now, because we would have either resolved the omission of 
the offset or simply walked away from the mortgage offer and gone  elsewhere.
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator. So I decided to issue a provisional 
decision, setting  out my view of the case and inviting further comments. Both parties have 
now responded and so I issue  my final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I can see that Mr and Mrs Fs position is that Barclays arguments dont address the issue 
theyre complaining  about. The change offer said:
Ref: DRN82392224Please note it is important that you contact us as soon as possible if any details are 
incorrect or you no longer  wish to proceed  with the offer.
Mr and Mrs F say they did this (through the broker) on 14 December 2017, but Barclays took 
no notice and made the changes without further reference to them.
Mr and Mrs F dont  say (and may not know)  exactly what the broker  did following their call to 
him on 14 December. So Ive looked  at Barclays file notes  for 14 December. The notes  say 
the broker called asking about  the overdraft rate of interest. Barclays  told him the overdraft 
had to be on the standard variable rate and couldnt be changed,  and that there would be no 
offset account.
Ive no evidence as to whether the broker passed  this information on to Mr and Mrs F, but 
thats outside the scope  of this complaint. Whatever confusion  there  might  have  been  
following the calls on 9 and 27 November, it seems to me that Barclays did make the 
position clear on 14 December. It didnt simply ignore  the issue  as Mr and Mrs F suggest.
Its also not clear that the broker actually told Barclays that Mr and Mrs F didnt want to 
proceed. They say in their response  to the investigator only that they told him this by 
implication. If they hadnt wanted to proceed, they or their broker  needed  to actually say that.   
In those circumstances my provisional view is that Im not minded to uphold this complaint.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision. 
Barclays said it didnt have any further points or information it would like me to consider.
Mr and Mrs F said they did inform Barclays they werent happy to proceed via their broker. 
And he informed Barclays  immediately by telephone.
They also forwarded  an email from the broker to them  dated  9 April 2019 in which  he said:
I have however  now found an email from Barclays, dated 6 March 2018, stating that
The customer would like the rate switch reversing...
.
One point of note is that on the letter that Barclays wrote to Mr F 27/3/18  in the second  
paragraph, crucially,  they state that ...the agent  had provided him [me] with the incorrect 
information that the MCA [Mortgage Current Account] would  not be affected.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broker  mentions two communications from Barclays in March 2018 but these dont 
provide any evidence that he told Barclays on 14 December 2017 that Mr and Mrs F didnt 
want to proceed.
Ref: DRN82392225Barclays file notes  of the brokers call on 14 December 2017  make no mention of his having  
said that Mr and Mrs F didnt want to proceed. And the brokers email  of 9 April 2019 doesnt 
say so either, despite the request in Mr and Mrs Fs email to him earlier  that day.
On this evidence  Im not persuaded  to alter my provisional conclusions  and I confirm them 
here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019. 
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8239222