K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complained about The Mortgage  Business Plc (TMB).  TMB had refunded arrears 
management fees, but Mrs B complained that:
-she had to wait for the refund, and it wasnt adequate;
-TMB had passed her details to another organisation to process the refund, when she 
hadnt given permission.
background
In early April 2018, TMB  wrote  to Mrs B about  her closed mortgage account. It said that it 
had identified that some arrears management  fees might  have  been  inappropriately charged.  
It told her that it would be refunding all relevant  mortgage arrears management fees charged 
to Mrs Bs account since 1 January 2009,  together with interest charged on those fees and 
any overpayments Mrs B had made.  There was a calculation attached, and the total to be 
paid was £668.32.
Mrs B complained. She said that she also wanted  a refund of legal costs  for court  
proceedings, which she said had been  added to her mortgage and were part of arrears  
management. She wanted  a minimum of £1,475 extra. Mrs B also complained that the 
original arrears fees had caused her distress, and she complained because shed had 
previous field visits from TMBs agents.
TMB told Mrs B that there hadnt been an error  with the charges, which  had been  debited in 
line with the mortgage terms and conditions.  However, it offered her £100  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, and £41 for the cost of her phone  call. TMB told Mrs B that it 
wasnt looking at litigation fees,  though  it would  review  this at the end of the year.
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  and complained to this service. She complained that TMB had 
charged her £450 for instructing a solicitor and £1,170 for litigation  costs, which  the court 
hadnt sanctioned. She said she shouldnt  have to wait till the end of the year to get these 
back. Mrs B also said that TMB  had passed  her personal details to its debt collection agent. 
She said she now wanted £1,620 costs plus interest, and substantial compensation for 
stress and inconvenience. Mrs B also said that the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 
made it clear  that TMBs actions in using  the debt collection agency  carried civil and criminal 
liability.
The investigator initially thought that Mrs B should receive a refund for TMBs litigation costs  
in advance of the banks  project assessment at the end of 2018. He didnt  accept that the 
bank did anything wrong in using the debt collection agent. He explained that TMB  was 
using the company as an agent, not as a third party.
Both Mrs B and TMB replied to the investigators  first view:
-Mrs B said she accepted the first part of the investigators finding and wanted the refund 
immediately. But she strongly  disagreed  about  the use of the debt collection agency. She 
sent a third party authority form, which she said shed  never signed.
-TMB pointed  out that the Financial Conduct  Authority hadnt  said the fees were unfair, 
and theyd been in line with the mortgage  terms and conditions.  Effectively, the refunds 
Ref: DRN89314762were a gesture  of goodwill,  and the merits of each case hadnt been individually  
assessed. TMS also said that litigation costs  were actual costs  incurred when it had 
taken legal action.  It argued that it wasnt fair to pre-empt the outcome of its subsequent 
review, by refunding  Mrs B at this stage.  And it wanted to emphasize that the fees hadnt  
been charged in error. 
The investigator reconsidered in the light of these responses, and issued a second view.  In 
this, he said that hed looked  at Mrs Bs mortgage  account and had seen the amount of 
collections activity. So he could understand why TMB  had instructed field agents and 
solicitors. So he couldnt say the litigation fees were unfair.
The investigator also said that the third party authority form, which Mrs B had refused  to 
sign, wasnt a request for her to authorise  information to the debt collection agency. It was to 
allow TMB to have discussions with Mrs Bs solicitor. The investigator still thought 
considered the debt collection  agency  was acting as TMBs agent. He didnt think TMB had 
done anything  wrong.
Mrs B didnt accept this. She said she wanted the investigator to process the refund hed 
agreed. And she said shed never  signed a consent  form for the debt collection  agency, and 
there was an obvious breach of confidentiality and legal procedure. She said she didnt 
understand how the investigator could agree, then simply deny the facts in the next 
communication.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs request for payment of litigation fees
TMB is part of the Lloyds  banking  group, and the refund which  TMB gave Mrs B in April 
2018 was part of a scheme  which refunded  fees to all Lloyds Bank customers  whod been 
charged these. It was agreed  with the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).  As TMB  set out, 
the refunds didnt  mean that the fees had been wrongly  charged. Theyd been charged in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the mortgage  account, but the Lloyds group had 
accepted that it hadnt always done  enough to understand  customers circumstances to be 
confident that their arrears payment plans were affordable and sustainable. The FCA 
announcement said that for customers whose mortgage went  into litigation, there would  also 
be a refund of any litigation fees  if theyd been applied  unfairly.
Ref: DRN89314763Mrs B was charged litigation fees because TMB had to take her to court because of the 
sustained level of her arrears. The bank charged  its litigation costs to her mortgage account. 
So she might qualify  for a refund. But she might not, because there will have to be an 
assessment about  whether or not the fees should have been applied.  I cant say whether or 
not her litigation fees were unfairly applied. I can see that there was a considerable amount  
of collections and litigation  activity  on her mortgage, and TMB incurred a great  deal of 
expense getting  Mrs Bs case to court. But TMB  has made  it clear  that the part of the project 
which reviews litigation  costs would  start at the end of 2018. I find that it would be quite  
wrong for this service to pre-empt  whatever that review might or might  not find. I cant  see 
anything wrong  with Lloyds application of fees to Mrs Bs account.  But Im not aware of the 
parameters of the review that Lloyds is proposing  to make. That could reach a different 
conclusion, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to say that Mrs B shouldnt be awarded a 
refund. Mrs B will have to wait her turn for the review to consider her account.
So I do not uphold  Mrs Bs complaint for an immediate refund of the banks litigation fees 
which it debited to her account, nor for interest or compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience which might go with any such refund.
Status of the debt collection agency and whether there was need  for consent
Lenders normally contract out debt collection functions such as home visits. When they do 
this work, the debt collection agents  act as the lenders agent  in other words,  they act in 
place of the lender. So theres  no need for the borrower to have to provide consent,  and 
Lloyds was entitled to pass on Mrs Bs details to the debt collection agency. If Mrs B still 
considers theres  a breach  of data protection rules, the proper place for her to pursue this is 
with the Information Commissioners Office  (ICO).
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8931476