K822xcomplaint
Miss B and Mr W have complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limiteds 
(Watford) handling of Miss Bs motor  insurance claim.
Miss B is the policyholder.  Mr W is a named driver on the policy.  So for ease, except  where I 
think I need to refer to Mr W directly, Ill refer to Miss Bs actions and comments as being in 
respect of both herself and Mr W. 
Reference to Watford  includes its agents.
background 
Miss Bs car was stolen and Watford initially told her that it would settle her claim for the loss 
of the car. But while it was waiting for CCTV footage to validate the claim the police 
recovered the car.
The car was damaged and Watford initially told Miss B that it was still a total loss. But it later 
corrected that and said the car was repairable. Miss B said she didn't want  the car repaired 
and didn't want it back. Watford said that if Miss B didn't want it to repair  the car it could give 
her a cash in lieu settlement equivalent to the cost of the repairs  less Miss Bs excess. Mr W 
- on Miss Bs behalf - said that they didn't want the car back. Mr W said he would arrange for 
another engineer to inspect the car but neither he nor Miss B provided an engineers  report  
to Watford.
Miss B and Mr W brought their complaint to us. Our adjudicator  thought Watfords  offer of a 
cash in lieu settlement was fair. But she said that it had incorrectly  told Miss B that her car 
was a total loss when  it wasn't and that it had contributed to delays. So she said it should  
pay Miss B £100 compensation.  Miss B and Mr W didn't agree with our adjudicators  
assessment of their complaint and it was put into a queue for an ombudsmans  review.  In the 
meantime Miss B accepted Watfords cash in lieu settlement for the car.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it and my award will be the same as our adjudicators.
In bringing this complaint Miss B has made  a number  of detailed points and I've considered  
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points.
Watford initially told Miss B, before the police recovered her car, that it would settle  her claim 
for its total loss. The car was then recovered  and an engineer assessed it. Its clear to me 
that the engineer thought  the car was repairable. But Watford  incorrectly  interpreted the 
report as saying that the car was a total loss and passed that information on to Miss B. 
Clearly that wasn't  helpful. But I've noted  that it put things right shortly afterwards when it 
said that the car wasnt a total loss and it intended to repair it. And it sent out a second  
engineer to confirm  that the car was repairable. The second engineer  agreed that the car 
was economical to repair.
Ref: DRN86248842Miss B wasn't happy with the engineers reports as the cars  keys hadnt been available at 
the time.  So Watford arranged for a third assessment  when the engineer did have the keys. 
The engineer confirmed the findings from his previous report  that the car was repairable.
I understand that Miss B didn't want to have the car back and thought  Watford should 
consider it a total loss. But Miss Bs policy says that if her car is damaged Watford  would 
repair it unless it wasn't economical  to do so. And its clear  that Watford thought that it was 
economical to repair  the car. So thats  what it decided to do. But given that Miss B didn't 
want it to repair her car instead it offered her a cash in lieu settlement. That might not have 
been the outcome that Miss B was looking for but in the absence  of any engineering 
evidence saying that the car was beyond economical repair I think that was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Miss B also said that Watford  didn't tell her where it was keeping  her car. But I've noted that 
in a phone  call Watford spoke with Mr W and told him which  yard where the car was at. 
Mr W said he knew the owner and didn't need  the address. Watford then put the claim on 
hold to allow Mr W to provide his own engineers report. But I can't see that either Mr W or 
Miss B ever provided that report. So the only engineering evidence that Watford  had was 
that the car was repairable.
Similarly, Im aware that while still disputing  the outcome of her claim Miss B bought  another 
car. So she didn't  want her old car back.  But that was her choice.  I note that she didn't buy 
the new car until some months after Watford had told her the car was repairable.  So I don't 
think Watfords initial mistake in saying  the car was a total loss when it wasn't led Miss B into 
buying another car.
It follows that, for the most part, I think Watford dealt with the claim reasonably.  And I'm 
aware that since our adjudicator issued her assessment Miss B has accepted  Watfords 
cash in lieu payment to settle her claim. But Watford was clearly wrong to say that the car 
was a total loss after the police recovered  it. And I've seen  that it contributed to the delays in 
sorting matters out. So to address the distress and inconvenience arising from that I think 
Watford should pay Miss B and Mr W £100  compensation in total. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Watford  Insurance  
Company Europe  Limited to pay Miss B and Mr W £100 compensation to address their 
distress and inconvenience. Watford should  pay the compensation  within  28 days of us 
telling it that Miss B and Mr W have accepted  my final decision. If Watford  pays later than 
this, it must also pay interest  on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If Watford considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss B and Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give them  a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN86248843
Ref: DRN8624884