K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy that issues  with TSB Bank  plcs IT system have had an impact  on his bank  
account. 
background 
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system, linked to a planned upgrade.  
Mr C has told us that in May 2018  he received a letter from TSB explaining that his direct 
debit had failed.  This direct debit was a regular  payment intended to clear his monthly  credit  
card bill. I understand Mr C then had to make two payments during a subsequent  month,  
which he has said had a detrimental impact on his ability  to budget.  He also says he was told 
that he wouldnt be charged any interest and it wouldnt have an impact on his credit file. 
However, Mr C has told us that he was charged  23 pence in interest.
Furthermore, it appears that Mr Cs account  has not been upgraded from an Under  19 
account to an adult account.  TSB has told us that this shouldve happened  automatically 
when Mr C became an adult, but this upgrade didnt take place. The reasons for this error  
arent clear. I understand that Mr C has made several attempts to resolve  this issue,  
including a visit to the branch as advised  by TSB, but with no success. 
Mr C is concerned he may have been financially disadvantaged due to a lower  interest  rate 
on the Under 19 account. However, TSB has confirmed that, although Mr Cs account wasnt  
upgraded correctly  to an adult account,  there is no financial  loss associated with this error, 
as there  is no difference in the interest paid on either account. TSB has also told us that the 
error can only be resolved  by Mr C visiting the branch in person with identification 
documents.
Mr C has said he has experienced  intermittent problems with accessing his online  account. 
On one occasion in July 2018 he has told us he was unable  to add funds to his travellers  
card, meaning he couldnt pay for his accommodation and had to borrow money from an 
acquaintance. Mr C has also told us that in early July 2018 he went into a branch to deposit  
some money he had received for his birthday, but he was unable to do so.
Mr C has told us that two standing orders on his account werent correctly set up and failed 
to process. TSB has told us that these  standing orders can only be set up if Mr C makes  
contact via telephone banking. Mr C feels that TSB should be proactively resolving this issue 
 and other issues  rather  than placing  the onus on him.
Overall, Mr C has said he has spent a number  of hours on the telephone  with TSB trying  to 
resolve the various problems mentioned above, as well as having to spend  money  on travel 
to visit his branch.  He has also raised concerns about the poor communication  he has 
experienced from TSB, both in terms of time taken to respond to his queries, and in terms of 
the quality of the responses he has received. Specifically, Mr C has pointed  out repeated 
errors in the spelling  of his name  and other  details, and failures to contact him in accordance  
with promised deadlines, amongst other  issues.
Mr C is frustrated by the ongoing  problems he has experienced, and the time and effort it 
has cost him to try and resolve them. He is also concerned about his credit  file, and would 
like confirmation that no adverse information has been recorded against him as a result  of 
any of these issues.
Ref: DRN88213812Our initial investigator recommended that TSB pay Mr C £10.54  to cover his financial loss, 
and £150 to compensate him for the impact of all the issues. The £10.54  was intended to 
cover the 23 pence  in interest, £5 travel costs, and £5.31 in phone calls. In addition, our 
investigator asked TSB to update  Mr Cs account to an adult account, to set up the two 
standing orders correctly,  to remove any related  adverse information from Mr Cs credit file, 
and to apologise for the various  errors  in writing.
Mr C queried the award for phone call charges, and asked for specific  deadlines  by when the 
other actions  would be completed. He also requested written confirmation  that his credit file 
was unaffected.  In addition, Mr C explained  that his difficulties  with TSB arose while  he was 
also experiencing a personally difficult time,  due to family illness and his own recovery from 
an accident. He has said that the problems with his account added to the stress he was 
feeling at that time. He also told us that he missed out on paying into a Help to Buy ISA, and 
an associated government payment of £50 in matched contributions.
A second investigator looked into the complaint,  and gave the view that the compensation 
should be increased. She recommended  £16.49 for Mr Cs financial losses, covering £10 in 
travel costs, £6.26 for calls and 23 pence for credit card interest,  but didnt make an award 
for the potential loss of £50 in government  matched  contributions   although she invited Mr 
C to provide more  evidence about  this if he wished to do so. 
Our second investigator also recommended  increasing the payment for Mr Cs overall  
trouble and upset  as a result of everything  that had happened from £150  to £250. This 
increased payment  was intended to reflect the further delays and errors Mr C had 
experienced from TSB, and the inconvenience associated with his having  to take further  
action to upgrade  his account and set up the standing orders. She also asked TSB to send  
Mr C a letter confirming his credit  file hadnt been negatively impacted.
Mr C has told us he doesnt think the award is sufficient to compensate him for the trouble 
and upset hes experienced.  Hes requested a decision from an ombudsman, so the case  
has been passed to me. I understand TSB has already processed  part of the compensation 
payment, as recommended by our first investigator.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that TSBs system issues have led to financial losses for Mr C, as well as causing  
him stress and inconvenience, and I agree he is entitled to compensation for this. 
Ill start by discussing the financial  losses Mr C has experienced. It appears Mr C was 
charged 23 pence in interest which shouldnt have been applied.  Mr C has also told us that 
he has paid £5 in travel  costs to get to and from his branch, and I understand that he will 
incur a further £5 costs  in travelling to his branch again to change his account to an adult 
account. In addition, I understand Mr C has incurred £6.26 in additional  call charges.  Based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I agree with our Investigator that TSB should compensate Mr C 
for these  losses, which is a total of £16.49. Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade  me 
that Mr C has missed  out on a government  matched  contribution of £50 in relation to a Help 
to Buy ISA, so Im not making an award for this.
Ref: DRN88213813Ive also thought about the trouble and upset Mr C has experienced in relation to this 
complaint. His account shouldve  been automatically  upgraded to an adult account, without 
him having to go into branch at all. This didnt happen  and Mr C has had to spend time and 
energy attempting to resolve  this, and will now also have  to go into branch again to correct 
the problem. Similarly,  he has to resolve  any issues with his standing  orders. 
In addition, although no extra charge has been  applied, Mr C has told us he used up a 
number of his free  minutes under his phone contract on calls to TSB. Hes said that he 
wouldve used these  minutes on other calls, had he not had to contact TSB,  so I think 
compensation is due for this inconvenience  too.
I also think that TSBs poor communication, including its failure to respond adequately and 
the factual inaccuracies  in recent  letters, has worsened Mr Cs experience  and added  to his 
frustration. And I do understand that he has been going through a personally difficult  time as 
well. 
Having thought carefully about everything  Mr C has experienced and reviewed all the 
evidence available, I agree with our investigator that £250 is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for TSB to pay for the overall trouble and upset caused in this case.  I know  Mr 
C feels this figure should be higher, and Id like to make  it clear that Im not suggesting that 
he has overstated the inconvenience and upset this matter has caused him. However, this 
service doesnt exist to punish businesses, but rather to put things right for individual 
consumers. In this case  I think £250 is fair compensation for what Mr C has experienced, 
and this figure is broadly in line with what Id expect to see awarded in similar  cases  of this 
nature. 
This brings  the total figure Im awarding in this case to £266.49. I also think  TSB should send 
Mr C a letter clearly confirming that no adverse information has been recorded on his credit  
file as a result of any error by TSB.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mr C £266.49. I understand that 
TSB has already made a payment to Mr C in respect of this complaint. For clarity, any 
payment already made  can be deducted  from the total compensation award Ive set out 
here.
TSB Bank plc should also send Mr C a letter to confirm that no adverse  information has 
been recorded on his credit file as a result  of any of the issues  raised  in this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8821381