K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance  Limited  renewed  his insurance policy when he instructed 
it not to, applied charges when he later cancelled it, and instructed a debt collection agency 
for the outstanding amount. 
background
On 1 January  2019, Mr Ms landlord insurance policy automatically renewed. UKI says it 
then received a letter  from Mr M on 18 January asking for the policy to be cancelled; but 
because this was outside the 14 days cooling-off  period, time on risk and cancellation 
charges applied. 
UKI says it wrote to Mr M to confirm the cancellation and the outstanding amount, which  was 
£52. UKI says Mr M then phoned on 31 January, and he expressed his dissatisfaction about 
the charges  but he refused to go through the data protection questions so the call handler 
couldnt discuss his account. UKI says on 11 February, it wrote to Mr M again about the 
outstanding amount.
Mr M then wrote  to UKI setting out his complaint.  He said in December  2018  he had phoned 
UKI and explained  he didnt want his policy to be renewed, so he was surprised to receive a 
letter about  the cancellation  fee. He noted  that he had confirmed this point when he phoned 
UKI on 31 January.  As such, Mr M said he was shocked to receive  another  letter,  with the 
threat the matter would be passed  to a debt collection agency. Mr M said he would like to 
know why his instruction  in December had been ignored, and how matters  would be put 
right. Mr M said the situation had caused  him distress.  
In response to Mr Ms complaint, UKI explained  that it had no record  of any calls or activity  
on his policy  during December 2018.  It also explained the outstanding balance was due as 
cover has been provided until the cancellation  date. But nonetheless, UKI explained it was 
prepared to backdate the cancellation to the renewal date, and waive  the outstanding 
balance, if Mr M could  provide proof of insurance elsewhere for this period.
Mr M subsequently  forwarded an email  he had received in December  from another insurer,  
confirming cover had been  taken out. But the email  didnt  confirm what  property had been 
insured, on what terms, or the start date. Mr M noted he hadnt  included the policy  
documents for data protection purposes.
UKI explained to Mr M that it needed  to see his policy schedule for his new policy, to ensure  
the same  subject matter  had been  insured, and to make sure he had the benefit of 
continuous cover in case of a claim.
About a week later, Mr M told UKI that he had received a letter from a debt collection agency 
about the £52. He explained he was unhappy  about this as the outstanding  amount was still 
in dispute. UKI apologised and it said it would cancel the debt collection agency, to allow    
Mr M time to provide the requested policy schedule.
Ref: DRN87425102Mr M explained that he hadnt  received  UKIs previous email requesting his policy schedule. 
He also asked UKI to explain  why the document was needed, when the email from his new 
insurer showed other cover was in place. Mr M also said UKI could consult a database or 
contact the other insurer to confirm the details.  However, UKI clarified that it required the 
policy schedule for the reasons previously stated,  and it would  allow a further two weeks 
before taking further action on the outstanding amount.
About another week later, Mr M emailed UKI again  to explain that he had received a second  
letter from the debt collection agency.  UKI explained  that the letter  must  have been sent 
prior to its request to the third party to stop further  action. 
Mr M provided the requested schedule and UKI confirmed the outstanding balance  was now 
being waived.  However, Mr M later explained  that he was also seeking compensation for the 
distress he had been caused.  He explained  he had made three  phone  calls that had taken 
over 90 minutes; emailed UKI six times;  and received threatening letters  and phone  calls 
from the debt collection  agency. He also explained  a third debt collection letter had been 
received twelve days  after UKI had confirmed the amount  was being waived.
In response to Mr Ms further complaint, UKI apologised  he had received a third letter  from 
the debt collection  agency, and it acknowledged that this shouldnt  have happened.  UKI 
offered Mr M £50 to apologise for the upset caused.
Mr M was unhappy only £50 compensation had been offered. He referred  his complaint to 
this service, and it was considered by one of our investigators. But she noted Mr M hadnt 
provided any information to show he had contacted UKI in December to stop the renewal, 
despite her request for his phone records  and she thought £50 was fair for the debt 
collection letters that shouldnt  have been sent to him.
Because Mr M disagreed with our investigators  outcome,  the matter  has been passed  to me 
to decide. He said our investigator had only considered one debt collection letter,  and three 
had been sent to him; and he didnt  consider  £50 to be adequate in terms of compensating 
him for all his calls and emails to UKI. Mr M also noted our investigator  hadnt considered  
whether data protection protocols had been  broken, in respect of his personal information 
that was passed to the debt collection agency.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Having carefully considered the arguments presented by both sides, Ive reached the same 
overall outcome  as our investigator, that £50 compensation is fair. Ill explain why.
Mr M says that, during a phone call prior to the renewal date, he instructed UKI not to renew 
his policy. But on balance,  Im not persuaded by what  he says here.  I say this because UKI 
says it hasnt been able to find a record of him calling  during the month in question,  and its 
systems dont show that his policy was accessed either. Furthermore,  both UKI and our 
investigator have asked Mr M to provide information to show  he phoned  UKI before the 
renewal date, but he hasnt responded to those requests.
Ref: DRN87425103So, because Im not persuaded Mr M contacted UKI before his policy renewed, and he didnt 
ask UKI to cancel the policy until after the 14 days cooling-off period, Im satisfied that the 
outstanding amount was owed. The policy terms set out the charges that will apply, for 
cancellation and time on cover, if a policy is cancelled after the first 14 days. Im also 
satisfied these charges  were fair and reasonable  in terms of our general  approach.
That said  and although this doesnt  make a difference to the overall outcome  Im not 
persuaded UKI acted fairly in respect  of the debt collection  agency.  I say this for two 
reasons. 
Firstly, in my opinion,  UKI ought  to have been clearer about the action it was taking. When 
responding to Mr Ms complaint, UKI offered to waive the outstanding amount once he had 
proved he had taken  out alternative  cover. But a week  later the debt collection agency  was 
instructed. If UKI still intended to instruct a third party for the debt, whilst waiting for Mr Ms 
proof of cover, it ought to have made  that clear in its complaint response  letter.
Secondly, at the time the debt collection agency  was instructed, Mr M had clearly  shown his 
intention to provide  the necessary information. He forwarded the email  from his new insurer  
on the same  date UKI made the offer. UKI didnt  tell him the email was insufficient until a 
week later,  and on that same date it also instructed the third party. In my opinion, it was 
unreasonable that Mr M wasnt given more time to provide the policy  schedule,  before 
further action  was taken. Therefore, Im persuaded that the appointment of the debt 
collection agency caused Mr M some unnecessary upset.
Im also satisfied that UKI is responsible for the further frustration caused  by the second and 
third letters from the third party. I appreciate the second letter may have been sent before 
the third party  received  UKIs instruction to place  matters  on hold, but equally, UKI could 
have made  Mr M aware of this possibility. In respect  of the third letter,  the outstanding 
amount had already been waived  so this shouldnt  have been sent.
I have decided that it was unreasonable for UKI to have instructed  the debt collection agency 
when it did, and I will go on to consider compensation for the impact  this action had on Mr M. 
However, its not our role to decide if a business  has breached  data protection laws. That is 
for the Information  Commissioners  Office (ICO) to decide. As such, Mr M can report his 
concerns to the ICO if he wishes.
Mr M has highlighted the amount of time hes spent  contacting UKI, but much  of that contact  
was due to the outstanding balance. Given Im persuaded that the £52 was owed by Mr M, 
I cant reasonably decide  UKI is responsible for the inconvenience he suffered disputing it 
and arranging for it to be waived.  
However, Ive carefully considered what compensation should be awarded in respect of the 
upset and inconvenience caused  to Mr M by the appointment of the debt collection agency,  
and its three  letters.  In doing so, Ive kept in mind that in addition to its £50 compensation 
offer, UKI has already  waived £52  which in my view,  it didnt  have to. Therefore, in total, 
Mr M will have had the benefit of £102.
Ref: DRN87425104Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M, but having  considered all the circumstances of this complaint, 
overall, Im persuaded that a total of £102 fairly acknowledges the impact of the three debt 
collection letters. He hasnt said anything that persuades me his upset and inconvenience  
merits a higher award. Although I dont doubt the letters were  frustrating  for Mr M, he was 
aware at the time of receiving them,  that UKI was currently working  with him to waive the 
balance.
So, taking everything  into consideration, Im not persuaded  that I can reasonably decide  UKI 
needs to increase its £50 compensation offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint and I make no further 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742510