K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc, (trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester,  
(C&G)), mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the monthly-premium MPPI in 1997 at the same  time as taking out a 
further advance  on their mortgage. 
Because of the time that has passed C&G  no longer has copies  of all the paperwork signed 
by Mr and Mrs S at the time of the sale. Nor does  it know if the sale took place over the 
phone, by post or in a meeting and whether the policy was in Mr or Mrs S sole name or held 
jointly. But it has told us that initially the premiums were less than eight pounds  a month and 
the monthly benefit payable would have been about  £155.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Because 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mr and Mrs S case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
Mr and Mrs S say that there was no discussion about MPPI and that it was added  to their 
account without  their knowledge.  But I think that Mr and Mrs S knew that the policy was 
optional and that they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen their signed  
application for the further advance to their mortgage. This has a section in it dealing  with 
MPPI that briefly  explains what  the insurance is and says that the applicants  should tick 
the appropriate box for more details and a quotation.  Below  this are two boxes  one to 
tick for a quote in respect of the loan being applied for, and the other to include the 
existing mortgage.  (If no quotation was required both boxes  could have been left blank.) I 
can see that the former  box has been ticked.  It may be that it was C&Gs  advisor  who 
filled in the form this way. But Im satisfied that the advisor would have completed the 
form to reflect their discussion  with Mr and Mrs S and getting their agreement  as to how 
they wanted it filled in. Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs S would have had the chance to 
see which box had been ticked  before  they signed the form
Because of the time that has passed C&G  no longer has a copy  of the application for 
MPPI signed by Mr and Mrs S. But as Ive seen that they had shown an interest in taking 
out the insurance and that it had been  added to their account, on balance  Im satisfied  
that they agree to take it.
Ref: DRN86673282If C&G  advised Mr and Mrs S to take out the MPPI  it needed to have taken reasonable steps 
to ensure that it was suitable for their needs.  I dont know whether it did advise  them or not. 
But in any event  I find that the policy was suitable. I say this because, knowing what  I do 
about its terms and conditions and Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time:
oMr and Mrs S would both have been  eligible  for the MPPI;
oNeither Mr nor Mrs S was caught by any of the policys main restrictions  and 
limitations  such as those affecting someone  with a pre-existing medical condition.
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other similar policies available  in 
the market at the time and it offered reasonable benefits. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs S couldnt  afford  the premiums. In any event had they later 
though that it was unaffordable or that they no longer wanted  it, they could have 
cancelled the policy at any time without further  cost;
oAs Ive said, I dont know whether the policy covered both Mr and Mrs S or only one 
of them.  In the former case  the amount of the monthly benefit  payable would have 
been split between them in an agreed  proportion. As Mr and Mrs S were both 
working I dont think that setting  up the MPPI as either a joint or single cover  policy  
would have been unreasonable;
oMr and/or Mrs S were  entitled to some sick pay and redundancy packages  from their 
respective employers. But they had no savings or other insurance  to help them  make  
their mortgage repayments had one or other of them  not been working. But following 
a successful claim the MPPI would have paid out had the insured been  off work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  And these payments would have 
been made in addition  to anything payable to them from their employment and would 
have continued  for up to12 months. So I find that they had a use for the policy;
I dont know if C&G  gave Mr and Mrs S all the details  about the MPPI that it needed to so 
that they could  make  and informed decision whether to buy it or not. But from what Ive 
concluded above I dont think that clearer information would have changed their minds and 
stopped them taking out the MPPI. I conclude this particularly bearing  in mind the serious 
consequences that could have arisen  had Mr and Mrs S not been  able to make their monthly  
mortgage repayments. This means  that Mr and Mrs S are no worse  off because of anything 
that may have been wrong in C&Gs  sales process.  So theres nothing I require it to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
Ref: DRN86673283ombudsman
Ref: DRN8667328