K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc blocked a payment to his account, misled  him about 
the opening times of two branches  which were closed, and closed his account. He also says 
the banks staff were  rude and abrupt to him on the phone.
background
In late December 2018 Mr K received an international payment  of £9,300  in sterling into his 
Santander account (from another  currency).  Santanders systems  flagged this transaction as 
unusual for the account, and so access to these funds was blocked. Santander asked the 
sending bank some  questions about  the payment, and waited for the answers before it 
would let Mr K access the money. The other  bank  provided the necessary answers 15 days  
after the transaction, and then Santander  released  the money.
Meanwhile, Mr K phoned Santander to ask for his money. He asked about the opening times 
of two branches of Santander, intending to visit them, and he was given  the wrong 
information  he was told that they were open, when in fact they had closed early  because it 
was Christmas Eve. He only found out they were actually closed when he went  there,  after 
leaving work early.
In another call, Mr K was told that he could send some information  the bank had asked him 
for by email,  instead  of taking it in person to a branch. But the person who told him that 
forgot to record a note of that on his file, so the person  who received the email didnt know  
that had been arranged  (as this wasnt normal procedure).
For both of those mistakes, Santander  apologised and paid Mr K £80. But it did not accept 
that it was wrong  to block the payment, or that the delay in unblocking it was its fault.  It had 
had to wait for the other bank to respond.
While the payment was blocked, Mr K made a large number of phone  calls to Santander to 
try to hurry things along, but the answer was always  the same.  Santander eventually closed 
his account, which it said was because Mr K had often been abusive  to its staff. Mr K said 
that Santanders call handlers were  too sensitive and were being over-dramatic.
Mr K complained to our Service about all of the above matters.  He said that by the time the 
payment had been unblocked, it was worth  less because of a change  in the exchange rate.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint. He said that Santander  had been entitled  to 
block the payment  and to wait for the sending bank  to respond before unblocking it, and how 
long that took was not Santanders  fault. He listened  to some of the call recordings, and he 
agreed that Mr K had been abusive to Santanders  staff, so he thought  the bank was entitled 
to close his account. He didnt agree that the banks  staff had been  rude or abrupt. He 
thought £80 was fair compensation for the banks mistakes. Mr K asked for an ombudsman 
to review his case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83409122I think it was reasonable  of Santander to block the payment and to make some  enquiries 
before unblocking it. Banks are obliged to take steps to prevent  fraud  and money laundering, 
and unfortunately  this will sometimes inconvenience their honest customers. That cant  be 
helped. It wasnt Santanders  fault that the sending bank took 15 days  to respond,  or that the 
exchange rate changed  in the meantime.
Santanders terms and conditions say that it can close an account with no notice, or with less 
notice than usual,  if a customer is abusive to its staff. There  is ample evidence that this was 
the case (and I note that this isnt in dispute), so I cannot criticise the banks decision to do 
that. I have  seen no evidence that Santanders staff were less than professional  in their 
dealings with him.
I think £80 is fair compensation for the errors the bank did make,  as that is in line with what 
our Service  would typically  award for that kind of thing.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8340912