K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 2003. 
Mr M and Ms G says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them the MPPI. 
Mr M and Ms G were sold a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split into 
sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical 
Illness Cover (CIC).
Mr M and Ms G have complained about the MPPI  cover so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
The mortgage was in joint names, but the policy only covered Mr M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Ms G case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
When Mr G and Ms M first complained to us, they said that they didnt know they had MPPI 
until BoS wrote to them in 2015. They then said they recalled being told they had to take out 
the policy due to Mr Gs age. I cant know what was said at the time, and Mr G and Ms M 
havent provided much detail,  so I have to base  my decision on the information  I do have.
  
BoS hasnt been able to provide  paperwork  from the sale,  but this isnt unusual given how long 
ago the sale took place   but it has been  able to show that its sales  process  at the time 
presented the MPPI as an optional product  and gained  proper  consent  to take out the policy.  
And I havent seen  anything to suggest that BoS did anything differently when it sold the policy 
to Mr G and Ms M.
So I think its most likely BoS made  it clear  that Mr M and Ms G didnt have to take out the MPPI  
and that they chose  to take it out  although I can understand  why they cant  remember this as 
it was over 15 years ago.
BoS recommended the MPPI to Mr M and Ms G so it had to check that the MPPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example Mr M wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover and they 
seem to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr M and Ms G about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put them  off 
taking out the cover.  
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M and Ms G.
Ref: DRN85686002But BoS will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M and Ms G because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the MPPI premium)  - so 
it should have  told Mr M and Ms G about that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr M and Ms G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Ms G has said - including  what  theyve said about Mr M 
being in constant work  with the same company since 1992, and that he would  be eligible for sick 
pay through the company.
But MPPI, like all insurance, is taken out to protect against the unknown. And while Mr M would be 
entitled to sick pay, the MPPI  couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than the existing cover  
hes told us he had. So these points dont change my decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I 
dont uphold this complaint.
what the business needs  to do
BoS has to pay back  to Mr M and Ms G any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the MPPI premium. BoS should  also pay back to Mr M and Ms G any extra  interest they 
paid because of that.
BoS should pay back to Mr M and Ms G the extra  they paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. BoS should also pay Mr M and Ms 
G 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M and Ms G can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the MPPI to Mr M and Ms G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr M and Ms G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Ms G to accept  
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8568600