K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
background
In April 2018 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered into a Conditional Sale agreement. 
Within the first two weeks, Miss B says she experienced  issues whilst driving the car on the 
motorway. The crash  collision lights illuminated and the car lost power. Miss B arranged for 
a recovery vehicle to tow her home.
Miss B had the car inspected at the suppling  dealer  but says that no-one was able to tell her 
what was wrong with the car. 
In June 2018 Miss B reported the electrical faults to Moneybarn. She also complained about 
some other issues including the rear light cluster, which she said had been repaired with 
second hand parts before  the point of supply, and about the nearside front indicator being 
constantly on.
In its final response,  Moneybarn said it had spoken  to the supplying  dealer who had 
confirmed that the only issue found  with the car on inspection was the pollen filter which 
required replacement. Moneybarn said this was a wear and tear item. It acknowledged  that 
Miss B had complained about electrical  issues but said the dealership had found  no issues  
and asked Miss B to provide  evidence of the faults.
Miss B wasnt happy with the response so she complained to this service.  Whilst the 
complaint was being investigated, Moneybarn arranged an independent inspection of the 
car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said that although the independent inspection 
didnt find any faults, Miss B had provided video  evidence showing multiple warning lights  
illuminating and unusual humming sounds  coming  from the car. The investigator said these 
issues were consistent with the faults reported by Miss B in June 2018 and were likely  to 
have been present at the point of supply. 
Moneybarn didnt agree.  It said the independent  report found no faults  and that electrical 
issues were usually as a result of wear and tear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Moneybarn  has supplied the car under  a conditional sale agreement  theres an 
implied term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory  quality if they are 
of a standard that a reasonable  person would  expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car to have a degree of wear and tear. So in order to 
uphold this complaint I would  need to be satisfied that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply due to an inherent defect  rather  than general wear  and tear.
Ref: DRN81201432Miss B and Moneybarn disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision I need  to look at all of the available evidence  and determine,  on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply. 
Miss B says she first experienced  electrical  issues within  two weeks of the point of supply. 
Although theres  no documentary evidence of Miss Bs car breaking down and being 
recovered, Ive got no reason to doubt  Miss Bs testimony about  this. The issues she has 
described with the car in those first two weeks are the same as the issues she described 
when she complained to Moneybarn in June 2018,  two months  after the point of supply.
The issues  complained about in June  2018  by Miss B included:
Engine cuts out whilst driving
Crash collision warning light illuminated  whilst  driving
Radio  cuts out and speakers emit screeching  noise
Parking sensors and reversing sensors constantly humming through speakers
Nearside front repeater  on constantly
Because these  issues were reported  to Moneybarn  within 6 months of the point of supply, 
theres a presumption that the faults  were present at the point of supply unless shown 
otherwise.
Moneybarn relied  on the investigations carried out by the supplying dealer when it rejected 
Miss Bs complaint. Ive reviewed the available information but its not clear  exactly what  
tests the supplying dealer carried out to establish  whether the car had electrical faults. 
Because the faults were  reported within 6 months of the point of supply, and because  the 
nature of the faults were  so serious  that they affected Miss Bs ability to drive the car (i.e. 
engine cutting out), I think Moneybarn should have done more  than simply rely on what  the 
supplying dealer told them. Ideally Moneybarn would have arranged an independent  
inspection at this stage.
Ive considered Moneybarns final response but it doesnt mention the video evidence that 
Miss B sent to Moneybarn on 4 September 2018. Im satisfied that the video shows  some of 
the faults complained of by Miss B. I cant be certain  that Moneybarn  took this video 
evidence into account  but I think it should have done. I find this video evidence persuasive  
as it was taken within  the first 6 months of the point  of supply and demonstrates some of the 
electrical faults complained of.
An engineers report can help in deciding whether or not a fault was present at the point  of 
supply. An independent engineer inspected Miss Bs car in March 2019. The engineer  was 
unable to confirm  the reported issues and concludes that the faults cant be found.
However, the report notes  that the fault is intermittent and that a longer test was required to 
see whether there were  faults  or not. The report also says that it would be difficult  to prove 
that the faults were present at the point of supply without some form of documentary  
evidence that the faults  had been reported soon after the point of supply.
Ive considered the independent report carefully  but I have some  concerns about it. Firstly,  
the car was only driven for 17 miles.  I dont think this is a sufficient  distance  to test for an 
intermittent fault. The engineer acknowledges  that a longer test is required,  but this was 
Ref: DRN81201433never carried out. So I dont think the report is reliable evidence that a test for an intermittent  
fault has been carried out.
Secondly, the engineer  says he would need to see evidence that the faults  had been 
reported soon  after the point of supply. I cant be certain of what was provided to the 
engineer before he carried  out his inspection.  But Im satisfied,  based  on the evidence Ive 
seen, that Miss B reported these faults  to Moneybarn in June 2018. I think  this is sufficiently 
close to the point of supply  to fairly  conclude  that the same  faults  were  more likely than not 
to have been present at the point of supply.
Thirdly, the report  refers to a DVD  provided by Miss B which  evidences the intermittent 
faults. Its not clear  from the report whether the engineer  viewed the DVD or not. The 
engineer specifically observes that the DVD  is available for Moneybarn to view, yet makes  
no comments on it. I see it as a fundamental weakness of the report that it doesnt  comment 
on a timestamped  DVD  which Im satisfied shows some of the electrical  faults complained of 
by Miss B.
Because the faults presented themselves with 6 months of the point of supply, its up to the 
finance provider  to put things right unless it can show  that the faults werent  present at the 
point of sale. On balance, I dont think the report is conclusive that the faults  werent present 
at the point of sale.
Moreover, Im satisfied, based  on Miss Bs testimony and the supporting DVD evidence,  that 
the faults presented between April and June 2018.  So I would expect clear and conclusive 
evidence to rebut the presumption that the faults were present at the point of supply.  I dont 
think the independent report is sufficient in this regard.
Although the independent report found no faults, Im persuaded by the video evidence that 
there are intermittent electrical  faults  which are more likely than not to have been present at 
the point of supply. Because  of this, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.
my final decision
My final decision is that Moneybarn No 1 Limited should:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Miss B.
Refund the deposit of £500 and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Pay £100 trouble and upset
Refund the insurance cancellation costs of £382.72 
Remove any adverse  information relating to this agreement from Miss Bs credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8120143