K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS) has cancelled her car 
insurance policy midterm.
background
Mrs B was involved  in an unfortunate accident  in November  last year when her car hit a dog. 
She contacted her insurer to enquire about making  a claim for the damage sustained  to her 
car. 
When Mrs B spoke  to an advisor it transpired that although she was listed  as the owner of 
the car, the car actually  belonged to her ex-husband and not herself. This was an issue for 
CIS as it said it only provided insurance where the policyholder is the registered car owner. 
So if the car wasnt registered  in Mrs Bs name, her policy would be avoided  back  to the 
beginning. Mrs B finished the call without clarifying  whether she wanted  to pursue the claim 
or clarifying  who owned the car. 
Over the course of the following month CIS wrote to Mrs B on three  separate occasions, 
asking her to clarify who owned her car. However around this time Mrs B split with her now 
ex-husband and moved out of the house  she had been living in. She didnt contact CIS to 
explain her address had changed so she never received the letters  it sent. Because  CIS 
never received a response to any of the letters it sent it cancelled Mrs Bs policy  in 
January 2018  due to lack of cooperation.
Mrs B says it was unfair of CIS to cancel her policy. She says that she has lost her no claims 
discount and the cost of getting alternative insurance has gone up significantly despite 
having over thirty years of driving without incident.  In addition to this she says she didnt get 
to pursue the claim and so she is still trying to pay to get her car repaired. Mrs B feels that, 
given her circumstances at the time,  CIS should be more understanding  and allow her to 
complete her claim.  
CIS has said that it remains open  to Mrs B contacting it about making  a retrospective claim 
for the accident.  However it has clarified that if Mrs B contacts it to pursue the claim it will 
first investigate who the registered  owner  of the car was.  
One of our investigators  has already  looked  into Mrs Bs complaint. She thought  that CIS 
was entitled to cancel the policy  because the terms of the policy allows  it to do so where  the 
consumer doesnt  provide  information  asked for. And because  Mrs B didnt respond  to CISs 
three letters asking  her to clarify who the registered  keeper of the car was, she said it was 
entitled to cancel the policy.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  her 
complaint and so the case has been  passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN85733032Mrs B is unhappy that CIS cancelled her insurance  policy midway through  the policy  term. 
CIS said that it was entitled to do so under the terms of the insurance policy because Mrs B 
didnt respond  to its request for clarification over who was the owner  and registered keeper  
of the car.
When Mrs B called to initially enquire  about  making  a claim it became apparent  that she 
wasnt the registered keeper of the car. So CIS wrote to Mrs B asking her to provide a copy  
of the cars V5C form and an explanation of why she wasnt the cars registered keeper. 
CIS wrote to Mrs B again chasing a response to its queries, but Mrs B didnt respond to this. 
CIS then sent Mrs B a final letter by recorded  delivery asking her to respond within 14 days 
or it would cancel the insurance policy. Mrs B didnt  respond to this letter, so CIS instructed 
the broker to cancel the policy. 
When Mrs B applied  for the policy she said was the owner and registered keeper of the car. I 
can see that it is a condition of the policy that the policyholder must be the registered keeper 
of the car. CIS has also shown it doesnt  provide insurance where the policyholder is not the 
owner and registered keeper apart from in some limited exceptions.  So I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for CIS to have asked Mrs B to provide an explanation for the discrepancies.
I appreciate that Mrs B didnt receive  these letters because  shed  moved address, but she 
hadnt told CIS or the broker  that she had done so. So I cant  say that CIS acted unfairly in 
sending the letters to the address shed provided when she took out the policy.
Mrs B has said that if CIS had contacted her via email, which was her preferred method of 
communication, she would have  responded to its queries. Instead she was unaware  it was 
trying to contact her as the letters were being sent to an address she no longer lived in.  
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy I can see that it states if the insurer 
decides to cancel a policy it will do so in writing. It says We may cancel your policy by 
sending you7 days written notice to your last known address. So although Mrs B had 
stated she preferred to be contacted via email  the terms and conditions  did state that 
cancellation notice  would  be sent in writing. And the onus was on Mrs B to make sure she 
notified the business if she moved.  
Ultimately, I cant  say that CIS has acted unfairly here. It was entitled  to ask for clarification 
in respect to who was the registered  keeper of the car and why there appeared to be a 
discrepancy. Mrs B didnt respond to this, so I think CIS was entitled  to cancel the insurance 
policy
I can imagine  how upsetting this entire issue has been for Mrs B. The accident  itself must 
have been very distressing and to be left in a situation where  she has to repay  the damages 
to her car herself and have the cost of car insurance increase by the levels it has, must be 
extremely upsetting.  But I cant say that CIS has unfairly caused her any distress and 
inconvenience.
CIS has indicated that if Mrs B contacts it to discuss her claim it will consider  it 
retrospectively as she did have insurance with it at the time of the accident, subject to her 
providing an explanation of why it was given incorrect information  about who was the 
registered keeper  of the car. And, as I said above,  I think its fair for it to ask this
my final decision
Ref: DRN85733033For the reasons  outlined  above I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8573303