K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that she wasnt told there was a mileage limit when she financed  a car 
through an agreement brokered by Currie Motors UK Limited  (Currie Motors). Shes upset 
she was charged for excess mileage  at the end of her finance  agreement and wants this 
charge cancelled. 
background
Mrs P took receipt of a used car in September 2015. She financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  brokered by Currie Motors. The car was four years  old and had 
completed 23,000  miles when Mrs P took receipt of it.
But when Mrs P returned the car at the end of the contract period she was surprised to 
receive an excess mileage charge as she said she wasnt aware her mileage was limited.
So she complained to Currie Motors and said the deal had been  misrepresented  to her. But 
they said the excess mileage charges were clearly  made out in the finance agreement Mrs P 
had signed.
So Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
agreed that the finance agreement clearly  set out that the mileage allowance was 24,000 
miles over the three year contract: 8,000 per year. He considered Mrs P previous finance 
agreements and noted that when  driving her last car shed covered 8  8,500  miles per year. 
So he didnt think it would be unusual for the mileage limit to be set to 8,000  miles. And he 
explained that whilst Mrs P asserted that the mileage limit wasnt  explained he couldnt be 
sure what  was said in conference with the dealership  and therefore  couldnt fairly conclude 
that the agreement had been misrepresented.
But Mrs P disagreed and she asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs P acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
agreement should  not have been  misrepresented. If it was then Currie  Motors are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
I understand that Mrs P feels strongly  that the mileage limits were not explained to her but 
unfortunately we have  no record  of the conversations she had with the dealership.
Ref: DRN87589512The finance  agreement clearly sets out, on the first page of the agreement, the permitted 
maximum mileage  and the charge for excess miles.  Mrs P signed this agreement and I think  
its reasonable to suggest she would have considered the detail of the contract as the sum 
was not inconsiderable.
The mileage  limit is broadly in line with the average  mileage Mrs P completed in her previous 
vehicle. So the mileage limit that was set on this new agreement would seem logical and 
suggests to me that its likely it was formulated  with Mrs Ps previous mileage  in mind. So I 
dont find theres evidence here that an unusual mileage limit was imposed or one that Mrs P 
would have been unlikely to have  agreed  was practical given  her previous mileage. 
And overall,  I dont  think theres evidence that the agreement was misrepresented or that 
Currie Motors need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8758951