K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc wrongly advised them  to invest  
£10,000 in a bond with no guaranteed return when fixed-rate bonds  wouldve provided a 
certain healthy return.
background
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel the complaint should be upheld for the following 
reasons:
Mr and Mrs F had £89,000 in cash and agreed  to invest £43,000 split between three 
different low risk investments
Only £10,000  was recommended to be put in the guaranteed bond; so this was just 
11% of their overall  assets
Therefore, the advisor recommended a reasonable emergency  fund and a suitably 
diverse spread  of their investable money
He also made other recommendations,  or at least discussed  other  products, 
according to the fact find and suitability letters; thereby offering Mr and Mrs F options 
as to what to do with their money
The evidence suggests that fixed-rate bonds were discussed  but rejected  by Mr and 
Mrs F, and that they were attracted to the capital  guarantee which was part of this 
bond along with some exposure  to the FTSE
Overall, he felt the advisor  had done a decent  job of outlining  the various options and 
that Mr and Mrs F were in a reasonable position to decide whether to go ahead
Mr and Mrs Fs representative  did not agree, and said:
Mr and Mrs F were  not given any meaningful details of the rates available  from 
savings plans or fixed-rate bonds and it was the advisor who promoted  the bond  as 
the best option
If they had been aware of the details of the fixed-rate  bonds available set against the 
likely returns  from this bond  they would not have agreed  to go ahead
Based  on the average growth  rates  set by the Financial Services  Authority, the 
average anticipated return within the bond was lower than that available  risk-free 
from a fixed- rate bond
Mr and Mrs F were  being advised to take a risk to overcome some  imaginary 
problem with fixed-rate products that wasnt discussed
If they had been given  clear,  fair and not misleading information they would not have 
agreed to purchase the bond
Given the investment  content and the features  of the product, the FTSE would need 
to grow by an unrealistic amount to have any chance of outperforming fixed-rate 
bonds; this was not made clear to Mr and Mrs F.
Nat West responded,  saying:
The maximum possible return was 7.27% per annum and returns  were  free from 
basic rate tax. Mr and Mrs F were  both tax-payers  and likely  to remain  so for the 
foreseeable future
Ref: DRN80906872 At the point of recommendation, Nat West was offering a five year fixed-rate bond 
with a return of 5.4% per annum  which  would have equated to a net return  of 4.32% 
for a basic rate tax-payer
This taxation difference was clearly  discussed in detail according to the suitability 
letter 
The available evidence confirms that the advantages and disadvantages  of its fixed-
rate product were explicitly discussed with the customers, and directly compared with 
this bonds features
Mr and Mrs Fs recent comments suggest  that they did understand the workings of 
the bond
Their representative  referred to the FTSE needing to grow by an unrealistic amount 
to have any chance of outperforming fixed-rate bonds but the product brochure 
showed that the FTSE grew  by an average of 11.56% per annum over the period  
from inception to October 2000.  As such,  it appears wholly  realistic  that it could have 
performed to a level where the gross  returns outperformed the net returns from fixed-
rate bonds
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and mainly for the same  reasons.
Its important to explain that my role, when considering a complaint, is to decide  whether a 
business clearly did something wrong or made a mistake, not whether it might have done 
things differently (such as made a different  recommendation).
Ive specifically stated  this in this decision because  I do understand Mr and Mrs Fs 
representatives concerns about the bond. The issue as to whether these types of capital-
guaranteed bonds offer a realistic prospect of outperforming guaranteed fixed-rate bond 
returns is a frequent  subject of complaint. And, in many cases, this service has concluded 
that a customer was not given a fair comparison between  these two respective products; and 
if they had been, they probably would not have taken the risk of getting no return via this 
type of bond.
But in this case I do not think Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  demonstrate that this specific  
recommendation was necessarily wrong; mainly for the reasons outlined  by the adjudicator.
Mr and Mrs F had a substantial amount of money  earning a basic  rate of interest.  From what  
Ive read,  they approached the advisor  (rather  than the other way round), suggesting they 
were looking  to take some risk with some of their money. The overall amount invested does 
not seem  intrinsically  unsuitable given their general finances and ongoing income (pension 
etc.), and they were  advised  to spread their money between different types of products.  
Crucially, the amount  put into this bond was little more than 10% of their overall assets.
I also think the advisors report suggested there had been significantly more discussion 
about possible investment options  than I have seen in many cases where a guaranteed 
bond was proposed. On balance, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs F were put in a reasonable 
position to make an informed decision about  whether to go ahead with this bond.
Ref: DRN80906873I acknowledge that the advisor did not spell out the potential respective returns as shown by, 
for example, the middle of the bonds three  illustrations and Nat Wests five year fixed-rate  
bond. Such a comparison  would  have  shown that the FTSE would have needed to 
outperform this middle illustrated growth figure for the bond to deliver a better return  than 
Nat Wests fixed-rate bond. And I share  Mr and Mrs Fs representatives concerns about this.
But I am satisfied that this was still a broadly reasonable  recommendation given  the modest 
sum involved and the diversified nature  of the advice. In order to uphold this complaint I 
would need to be convinced that if the advisor  had provided such  a clear comparison Mr and 
Mrs F would not have gone ahead.  In this particular case, I do not think there is sufficient 
evidence to safely reach such a conclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8090687