K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC - trading as Woolwich Building Society 
(Barclays) - mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 in 
connection with a joint mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs N complained  to this Service. They said they applied for PPI when they applied  
for their joint mortgage in 1997 from one of Woolwich Building Societys employees in a 
Woolwich branch office. They were  told the PPI was compulsory but they say they did not 
need it. Now that Woolwich  Building Society  is part of the Barclays banking group, they 
conclude Barclays is responsible for looking  at their PPI mis-sale complaint.
Barclays explained it no longer had any records showing Mr and Mrs N took out PPI with the 
mortgage which was sold by Woolwich Building Society. Barclays concluded it was not 
responsible for the PPI sale and it said it could  not take Mr and Mrs Ns complaint any 
further. 
We investigated the matter and our adjudicator agreed there wasnt enough evidence to 
show Barclays was responsible for looking  at this mis-sale complaint. So  as Barclays  
wasnt responsible  and no other company  would  take responsibility for the complaint - she 
said that we couldnt help Mr and Mrs N any further. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with our 
adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in February 2019  where I explained why I thought there was 
not enough evidence before me to show Barclays was responsible for the PPI sale through 
Woolwich Building Societys actions. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both 
parties and asked them for any further  evidence or comments. Barclays had nothing  further  
to add. 
Mr and Mrs N added  the following points:
My decision is based  on the fact that Barclays says it no longer has any records to 
prove the PPI sale;
Mr and Mrs N has produced copies of their PPI policy and the relevant reference  
numbers;
The PPI was definitely sold by a Woolwich employee in a Woolwich  branch office.
I should point  out here that all parties accept Mr and Mrs N were  sold PPI so the dispute  
arises as to which  company is responsible  for the sale.  I should also point out that in coming 
to a provisional decision that I cannot make Barclays responsible  for the PPI sale  I had to 
make findings based on all the information  made available to me about what  happened in 
1997. This event  was over 20 years ago, and I am not surprised  that original documents are 
no longer available. I understand Mr and Mrs Ns frustration but  and I am sorry to 
disappoint them further - I am still limited to only being able to see the available documents 
and internal computer  records  which can tell me what happened  in 1997. 
Ref: DRN83758592In this case, I dont  think Mr and Mrs N have produced  any new evidence for me to consider, 
so I see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether Barclays is responsible  for the sale of the policy.  If 
I decide it is, then I can decide whether the sale happened  as it shouldve done.  If I dont  
think Barclays was responsible for the sale of the policy to Mr and Mrs N, then Im not able to 
say that Barclays did anything wrong  or that it needs  to put anything right.
In this case, I am going to say Barclays is not responsible for looking at this complaint  so I 
am also going to reject  the merits of the mis-sale complaint against Barclays.  I know this will 
disappoint Mr and Mrs N so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  and at what Mr and Mrs N say about how the policy 
was sold to them in 1997. They recall they were advised they had to buy PPI and so they felt 
they had no option. They said the PPI was sold at a branch of Woolwich Building Society by 
a Woolwich employee.  They  helpfully produced  a Key Facts document which has the 
Woolwich  logo at the top of the form and clearly  states:
We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we have assessed your needs for 
buildings and contents insurance, life and critical Illness insurance and mortgage payment 
protection insurance.
However, Barclays pointed out the key facts document is not dated and it does not have Mr 
and Mrs Ns details on it  so it does not show it relates  to their mortgage. I have looked  at 
the form very carefully and I think Barclays is correct in its observations  the document  is 
undated and does not show it is linked  to Mr and Mrs Ns 1997 mortgage.  So I dont think  
there is enough evidence from the key facts document alone to say Barclays sold the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs N through  the actions  of Woolwich Building Society. Barclays  has produced 
several screenshots from its records but none  of them shows  it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs 
N. I have not seen any other evidence from 1997  that I can refer to which shows  Barclays  is 
responsible for the PPI sale.
So I agree with Barclays conclusions. There is not enough evidence in this case to show  
Barclays is responsible  for looking at this PPI mis-sale complaint. So  in the absence of any 
further evidence  dating from 1997  - I cannot  reasonably conclude  that Barclays is 
responsible for the PPI sale. It also follows that I dont think Barclays  has been shown to be 
responsible for carrying out the sale properly  - so Im not going to uphold this PPI mis-sale 
complaint against  Barclays. 
I note our adjudicator  did a very thorough investigation into all other avenues of complaint for 
Mr and Mrs N  and our adjudicator advised  them separately about  the other options which I 
understand Mr and Mrs N have already pursued. However, I think this is as far as this 
Service can take this complaint  against  Barclays.
Ref: DRN83758593my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC is probably not responsible  for this PPI sale;  
and I do not uphold this complaint against  Barclays Bank  UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8375859