K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that HFC Bank Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance policy  
when he took out a credit card in 1996.
background
This policy cost £0.71 for every £100 outstanding  on his credit card. It was designed to cover 
5% of the outstanding credit card balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr D made a 
successful claim  because  he couldnt work through accident, sickness  or if he lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed with this view 
and asked that his matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision. So the case has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Mr Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
This policy was sold in 1996, over two decades ago, so understandably not all the 
information or paperwork is still available after all this time. This isnt surprising or unusual as 
businesses arent  required to keep records indefinitely. Mr D also doesnt  have much of the 
original paperwork.  So where the evidence is incomplete, I will look at this case  on the 
balance of probabilities - that is whats more likely to have happened  thinking about what  
both parties have told me, taking into account any evidence we do have and also thinking 
about what we know about how this business sold these types of policies  at the time.
Mr D has told us that he was made  to believe  he had to buy the PPI to get the credit card. 
So the first thing Ive thought about was whether Mr D was given a fair choice.
The original  application  form Mr D completed isnt available but HFC has provided a copy  of 
the type of agreement Mr D likely saw at the time. I think this form from near the time was 
representative of the type of application Mr D would have seen when he applied  for his credit  
card and the PPI. On it theres a section asking Mr D to tick the box if he wanted  the cover. 
Mr D could have left it blank if he didnt want it. And I dont think  its likely he spoke to 
anyone as the application was completed through the post so I dont think  its likely he would 
have been led to believe he had to have  the PPI in order  to get the card.  So on balance  I 
consider he was more  likely given a choice.
It looks as if Mr D bought the PPI through the post and I dont think this was an advised sale.  
So HFC didnt have  to check the policy was the right fit for Mr Ds circumstances.  It was up 
to Mr D to decide if he wanted  it. But HFC did have to give Mr D clear enough information so 
he could decide  for himself whether  or not to take out the PPI.
Mr D says no one explained the PPI to him. Its possible that not all the information was as 
clear as it could have been.  But thats not enough  for me to uphold  this complaint. I next 
Ref: DRN81668362need to think whether  if Mr D had clearer  or better information he would have changed  his 
mind about  buying  the cover.
I dont think hed have  been put off buying the policy. I say this because I can see Mr D was 
eligible for the PPI and as he was working and in good health, I dont think Mr D would have 
been affected by any of the main limitations  and exclusions which might have made it more 
difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr D has also told us that he had no sick pay or savings. On balance  I think  this policy could 
have been useful if he lost his job or couldnt  work  it would have paid out for up to 12 
months. Mr D has said he would have  been paid redundancy pay which would have covered 
his salary for at least six months. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any 
redundancy he got and meant  he could  use his redundancy pay for any essential  living  
expenses - so the PPI could still have been  useful if he lost his job.
Theres nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr D. 
In summary,  I think its likely Mr D chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And for the reasons Ive explained  it seems the PPI could have been useful for 
Mr D if he fell into difficulty because he lost his job or couldnt work through  accident or 
sickness. So at the time I dont think Mr D would have made a different decision and not 
bought the policy.
Ive taken into account all Mr D has said about it being unfair to make  assumptions where 
there is no information available. But as Ive explained there is no requirement to keep 
records indefinitely and where the information  is not available I have made  my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened  taking into account the evidence we do have 
and the wider circumstances. Looking at everything I dont think  Mr D lost out because of 
anything HFC did wrong. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr D but I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8166836