K821x#15complaint
Ms H says Homestraight Mortgages  Ltd mis-sold her a single premium  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her mortgage in 2008.
Among other  things, Ms H argues she wasnt told what the total cost of the policy would be 
once factoring in the fact that it was to be financed by the mortgage lending .
background
Ms H applied for a mortgage through Homestraight. Homestraight also sold her PPI to 
protect her mortgage payments. The PPI paid a monthly benefit for up to 24 months per 
claim if she couldnt work due to disablement.
This was a single premium PPI policy. So the cost (£1,953.96) was added to the amount 
borrowed and to be repaid over the 14-year term of the mortgage. The PPI provided cover  
for Ms H for a period of 24 months.
Our adjudicator believed  the PPI had been  mis-sold and recommended that the complaint be 
upheld. Homestraight  disagreed, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Ms Hs case.
Ms H says Homestraight recommended the PPI to her. Homestraight says it didnt. On 
balance, I find it likely  Homestraight  did recommend the PPI to Ms H. I say that because  of 
the nature  of the work  it appears  to have undertaken in sourcing PPI for Ms H and from the 
content of the paperwork  it sent to her. This included a personal Insurance  Quote  
Illustration  in which Homestraight stated:
Based on the information set out below, we are making a recommendation personal 
to you of the policy proposed for the reasons set out
In the Statement  of Demands and Needs and Recommendations, Homestraight said:
We set out below our understanding  of your demand[s] and needs  and whether the 
policy we have selected meets those demands  and needs.
That said,  I believe the complaint should be upheld even if no recommendation  was made. 
Ill explain  why.
If Homestraight sold the PPI to Ms H without giving advice, it still had to give her enough 
information to allow her to make  up her own mind about whether the PPI was right for her. 
The information had to be clear, fair and not misleading. I dont think it did that. I say that 
because, for example, I cant  see that Ms H was told the overall cost of the PPI over the 14-
year term of the mortgage (if the mortgage  ran to term) or how much extra she stood to pay 
in interest for the PPI over that period.
Ref: DRN83859492The interest alone would have been  a significant amount, given Ms H had entered  into a 
long-term financial commitment.  Homestraight  might argue that Ms H intended  to re-
mortgage long before the end of the mortgage term, and so the cost over 14 years  wouldnt 
have been a concern to her. Nevertheless,  Homestraight accepts it had concerns about the 
affordability of the mortgage. In the circumstances I think the missing informations 
significant enough to have  affected  her decision to take the PPI.
Ive carefully considered  what Homestraights  said about Ms H appearing to be happy with 
the arrangements it had put in place  and that they were similar to those it made for her 
previous mortgage  in 2006. But Ive also taken into account my finding that she didnt have 
all of the information she should  have  been  given before  agreeing to go ahead with the PPI. 
So, while she was seemingly happy to go ahead, her understanding was flawed in that it was 
based on incomplete information.
Overall, I believe Ms H has lost out because  of how Homestraight sold her the PPI and that it 
should put things right for her.
putting things right
Ms H borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her mortgage  was bigger than it should have 
been. She paid more  than she should have each  month and, if the mortgage has ended,  it 
cost her more to repay the mortgage than it would have. So Ms H needs to get back  the 
extra shes  paid.
So, Homestraight should:
Work  out and pay Ms H the difference between what she paid each month on the 
mortgage and what she would have paid without PPI.
Work  out and pay Ms H the difference between what it cost to pay off the mortgage and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms H paid from when she paid it until she gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
If the mortgage is still running, Ms H needs  to get back the extra  shes  paid and start paying 
what she should have  been paying  all along.
So, Homestraight should cancel the policy  (if its still running) and:
Pay Ms H the amount she needs to pay her lender  so she can reduce the amount she 
owes on the loan to what  it would be without PPI.
Work out and pay Ms H the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she would  have paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Ms H paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year .
Show Ms H how it worked this out and the amount she still owes. And show  Ms H how 
much her future payments will be.
Whether or not the mortgage is still running, if Ms H made a successful claim under the PPI 
Ref: DRN83859493policy, Homestraight can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Homestraight  to take off tax from this interest. 
Homestraight must give Ms H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Homestraight 
Mortgages Ltd to put things right for Ms H as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8385949