K820x#14complaint
Miss S and Mr W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2004 Miss S and Mr W took out a mortgage with Halifax.  At the same time, they took out a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). The plan included a PPI element. It also included 
life cover.  Ive only considered the PPI element of the plan here.
Miss S and Mr W paid a monthly premium for the TMPP.  The PPI element of the plan would 
have covered their monthly mortgage  payments against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. The total monthly benefit of around  £570 was split between 
Miss S and Mr W so that if Miss S had made  a successful claim on the policy it would have 
paid 35% of the monthly benefit.  And if Mr W had made a successful  claim on the policy,  it 
would have paid 65% of the monthly benefit.  And it would have done this for up to 24 months 
per successful claim.
Miss S and Mr W cancelled the PPI in 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss S and Mr Ws case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss S and Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss S and Mr W say they werent aware that PPI had been attached to the mortgage, 
and that it was never mentioned before, during or after the sale. Due to the time that's 
passed, Halifax no longer has copies of all the documents  that Miss S and Mr W signed  
when they took out the mortgage and TMPP. I don't think  that's  surprising or 
unreasonable, given  that the sale took place so many years ago.
I can't know  exactly what  was discussed  when  Miss S and Mr W took out the TMPP. It 
wouldn't be reasonable to expect  them  to remember exactly what  was said so long ago. 
So what they say about  what happened isn't enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN82120852Halifaxs records show that its advisor asked Miss S and Mr W a series of questions  to 
check that they were eligible for the TMPP, before issuing  a quote. A fortnight later, it 
issued a mortgage offer to Miss S and Mr W. Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer. It 
includes a section about  insurance. It states  clearly that they didnt need to buy any 
insurance through Halifax. Theres a heading in bold: Insurance  you have chosen to 
take out through Halifax  plc. TMPP Mortgage  Repayment Cover (PPI) is listed  under 
that heading. Then theres another heading Optional Insurance  in bold. Immediately 
under that heading it says TMPP Mortgage Repayments Cover   provides cover in the 
event of accident, sickness or unemployment.
I acknowledge that Miss S and Mr W say they werent aware  theyd taken the policy  out. 
But taking everything into account,  I think Halifax made  it clear that the PPI was optional. 
And I think Miss S and Mr W decided  to take it out, knowing  that they had a choice  
although I can understand how they may no longer  remember this, so many years later.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Miss S and Mr W. This means it had a responsibility to 
check that it was suitable for them. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on 
what I've seen of their circumstances  at the time.  
Miss S and Mr W have told us theyd both have been entitled to sick pay from their 
employers at the time if theyd  been  off sick. But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any payments they received from their employers,  and for up to 24 months, 
which is significantly longer  than either  Miss S or Mr W would have  been  entitled to full 
sick pay for. Whats  more, the policy would have paid out in addition  to any payments 
they received from their employers.  So they could have used those to meet other  day-to-
day expenses.
I acknowledge that Miss S and Mr W have told us that relatives could have helped them 
with their mortgage payments  if necessary. But circumstances  can change, and I cant  
be sure that Miss S and Mr Ws relatives  would have been in a position to help if the 
need had arisen.
Ive borne in mind  that Miss S and Mr Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, 
due to run for a long period  of time. Their home would  have been at risk if they didnt 
keep their mortgage payments  up to date. The PPI cover  provided a dependable means 
of ensuring that their monthly  mortgage  repayments were protected  if either  of them  was 
off sick or lost their job. So I think it could  have been useful for them.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the mortgage offer.  So I think 
Miss S and Mr W would have understood how much  theyd need to pay for it. 
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  (for example, 
unusual working  arrangements  or existing medical  conditions). But from what  theyve 
told us about their circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Miss S and Mr W would have  
been affected by any of these.
Ive taken into account all Miss S and Mr Ws comments, including  what theyve said about  
having felt pressured into taking the mortgage.  They say they were very young,  and they felt 
intimidated, rushed.  They say they were told they needed to sign all the documents  straight  
away or risk losing the house. 
Ref: DRN82120853I accept that Halifax  recommended the PPI to Miss S and Mr W. But pressure is another  
matter. Ive explained above that the mortgage  offer was issued two weeks after Halifaxs 
records show that the PPI quote was generated. I think its likely that Halifaxs  adviser made 
it clear to Miss S and Mr W that PPI was optional.  And I think that was also clear  from the 
way the mortgage offer was set out. I can understand that Miss S and Mr W may have been 
concerned that if they didnt get the mortgage  they might lose the house they wanted to buy. 
But I cant fairly conclude  from that that Halifax pressured them  either into taking out the 
mortgage itself,  or PPI cover to protect  it.
In the end, Miss S and Mr W cancelled the policy in October 2006. Halifaxs records  say that 
Mr W explained that this was because theyd decided it was too expensive.  However,  I can 
see from Halifaxs records that theyd  first cancelled the TMPP in October 2005, around  a 
year after they took it out. But they phoned Halifax less than two weeks later and asked for 
the policy to be set up again.  I think its reasonable to assume that this was because  they 
valued the protection and peace of mind that the cover provided, and they wanted to keep  it 
up. 
So having  thought carefully about  what Miss S and Mr W have said,  these points dont 
change my conclusion.  Im not satisfied, on balance, that Halifax pressured  Miss S and Mr W 
into taking the PPI. And I dont find that the policy was mis-sold.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S and Mr W.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S and Mr W because:
It got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Miss S and Mr W about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell them, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S and Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) does have to pay back  to Miss S and Mr W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8212085