K820x#14Complaint
Mr F and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold  them  a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Background
The policy,  which  started in 1994, helped protect Mr F and Mrs Hs mortgage payments if 
either of them  became  too ill to work or became  unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr F and Mrs H disagreed, so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr F and Mrs Hs case.
As our adjudicator explained, we dont  have all of the information  from the time of the sale in 
this case. That isnt surprising given the sale took place so long ago. That said,  Ive still 
reached a conclusion taking into account  the available evidence, and knowledge and 
experience of these  types of sales.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As theres  little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant  say for sure that Mr F and Mrs H 
werent pressured into buying the PPI or told that they had to have it if they wanted the 
mortgage as they claim. Equally, Ive seen no evidence to support what theyve said. Taking 
everything into account, I think its just as likely  Mr F and Mrs H were  told the PPI was 
optional and that they agreed for it to be added. As such, I dont  have enough evidence  to 
uphold the complaint on this basis.
Looking at other aspects  of the sale, it seems HSBC  recommended the PPI to Mr F and 
Mrs H. That meant HSBC  needed to take steps to ensure its advice was right for them. I 
cant be sure it took those steps,  although  I think the PPI was right for them  in any case. For 
example, I think they were  eligible for the cover. And Ive seen nothing  to suggest the 
monthly premium was unaffordable for them.
The PPI included restrictions on the cover, such as for claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions. But I cant see that Mr F and Mrs H would  have  been  affected by them. 
Mr F and Mrs H say, if they fell ill, theyd have  received some  sick pay from their respective  
employers. But the PPI benefits would  have paid out on top of any sick pay theyd have got, 
and for longer at up to 12 months  per claim. Theyd have been covered for unemployment 
too. 
Ref: DRN83771752Ive thought about the income  protection cover Mr F and Mrs H say they held.  But without 
any details of what it covered, and for how much, I cant fairly conclude  that they didnt also 
have a need for PPI covering their mortgage  payments. Theyve referred to an accident 
insurance policy but these tend to provide a lump sum in the event of accidental injury.  The 
PPI, on the other hand, provided a monthly benefit for disablement or unemployment. So 
they covered different things.
Given Mr F and Mrs H had arranged a mortgage   an important, long-term, financial 
commitment that was secured against their home   I think the cover  provided them with 
worthwhile security. 
It was also for HSBC to give Mr F and Mrs H enough information about  the PPI so they could 
make an informed choice  about whether it was right for them.  I dont know  exactly  what 
information Mr F and Mrs H got during the sale. But, for the same reasons I think  PPI was 
right for them and was affordable, I dont think better information about  it would have put 
them off buying  it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr F and Mrs H lost out because of how 
HSBC sold them the PPI. Ive considered the point Mr F and Mrs H made about HSBC 
upholding another complaint they made  about PPI but that doesnt change  my mind.  Im 
required to consider each case on its own merits and Im satisfied that no compensations 
due on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377175