K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) amended his 
finance agreement  when some items he ordered, and was financing  with them,  werent 
provided.
background
Mr C ordered furniture,  in late 2017 and early  2018,  from a company Ill call H. He took 
advantage of a 0% APR fixed sum loan from Creation which he used to spread the cost and 
fund the four year deal. The order was comprised  of two sofas; a reclining  chair;  a dining 
table with six chairs and a kitchen table with four chairs.
But H didnt deliver all of the items. The dining table and chairs werent delivered and neither 
were two of the chairs  for the kitchen table.
H explained that there were no more dining tables in the country and they couldnt say when 
a new supply would arrive, other  than to explain it would be a minimum of six weeks.
So Mr C sourced a similar  item himself and funded it through another deal, with another 
finance company.  The deal attracted interest  of £95.74. He also sourced  some  new kitchen 
chairs which  he paid for using his debit card.
He was disappointed with the way Creation managed the reduction in his credit agreement  
when they removed the debt for the items that hadnt been  delivered.  Creation said they 
couldnt reduce  the value of the instalments but instead they reduced the number of 
instalments. This meant that Mr Cs agreement  would  be paid off a year earlier. Mr C said 
that wasnt fair. He wanted them to reduce the size of the instalments instead.
But Creation  said that they couldnt reduce the value of the instalments on a fixed sum loan. 
They didnt think Mr C had been  disadvantaged  as there  was no interest being paid on the 
debt.
But Mr C disagreed and he referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think  
Creation had done enough. He understood that the terms of the fixed sum loan prevented  
any change to the monthly  instalment  amount but he thought thered clearly been a breach 
of contract  by H, who were Creations  agents  in this agreement, and that Creation were  
therefore responsible.  
He thought Mr Cs actions had been  reasonable in the circumstances. He noted that hed 
just moved into a new house  and had nowhere for the family to eat their meals  so he 
wouldve wanted to get a new table  quickly. And, as thered been no definitive date for a 
replacement for the one that wasnt delivered,  he thought Mr C was right to find another  
option. He noted that the items Mr C procured  were of about the same price  hed been 
looking to finance  through Creation but he noted  that a 0% deal hadnt been  available to him 
and hed therefore had to take on a deal in which interest was payable. That interest  
amounted to £95.74 and so he thought a fair resolution of the complaint would be for 
Creation to refund it to Mr C.
But Creation  disagreed.  They said six weeks wasnt too long to wait for replacement furniture 
and they shouldnt be expected to pay another companys interest  charges. So they asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN83601592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit, it 
might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, a finance  provider  can be responsible  for a breach 
of contract  or a misrepresentation made  by the supplier.  
Here I think its clear  there  has been  a breach of contract as the goods  that were  ordered 
were not delivered  in full. So Creation need to put things right.
Theyre unwilling to change the monthly instalments as theyve explained the terms of the 
contract prohibit  that. But its clear Mr C has been inconvenienced  by the matter and I think  
its reasonable to compensate him.
He naturally wanted the furniture to be delivered  when he moved into his new house and it 
appears that H has been unable to provide him with a firm date of delivery. I can understand 
that, in the circumstances,  he would have lost faith in their ability  to deliver  on time, if at all, 
so I think it was reasonable for him to look elsewhere. 
I think it would be fair to compensate him by returning an amount equivalent to the extra 
financial burden hes taken on as a result of him having to source his furniture  elsewhere.  
The interest that he wouldnt have paid and now has to under a new agreement,  equates to 
£95.74, so I think its reasonable to ask Creation  to pay this to resolve the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Creation  Consumer  Finance  
Ltd to pay Mr C £95.74  to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8360159