K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Friends Life Limited has removed  online access to information  about 
her pension investments.  
background
Mrs B took out a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2008. She bought that plan from a 
company that was subsequently taken  over by Friends Life. So although Friends  Life didnt  
actually sell her the plan it is responsible for that sale and the subsequent servicing of the 
SIPP. And more recently Friends Life itself has been  taken over by another  company. 
However, for simplicity,  in this decision I will generally refer to all actions  as having been 
taken by Friends Life.
Mrs B says that it was of the utmost importance when she took her SIPP  in 2008 that she 
was provided with online access to information about her investments. And she says that 
she was assured by Friends Life, when she took the SIPP, that it would provide her with 
online information at all times.
As part of its merger activities Friends Life has recently started moving its customers onto a 
new online  servicing  platform. But it has needed to close its old platform  before that 
migration completes. So Mrs B and other  similar  customers have temporarily been left 
without online access to information on their investments. But Friends  Life has said that it is 
able to provide  information to its customers via the telephone in the meantime.
The transfer of the Friends Life business  was subject to approval  by the High Court. It was 
possible for affected policyholders to object to that transfer if they believed they would be 
adversely affected.  But Mrs B says that the loss of online access  wasnt disclosed until after 
the court hearings had concluded. She says she would have objected to the transfer if 
Friends Life had been more transparent about  the changes.
Mrs Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He concluded that it was 
unlikely that Mrs B had been given an indefinite guarantee  of online access  to her account. 
And he thought  the removal of online access had been a legitimate commercial decision that 
Friends Life was entitled to take. So he didnt  think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.
Mrs B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Mrs Bs husband has also been affected, in the same  way, by the changes that have been 
made by Friends Life. He has a near identical complaint  that I am deciding  separately.  And 
I have considered both of the complaints on their individual merits. But given the similarity in 
Mrs B and Mr Bs complaints, and the evidence presented by them  and Friends  Life, I hope  
they will understand why my decisions on the two complaints  are commensurately alike.
Ref: DRN87469122At the outset, I want to say that Ive got no doubts  that Mrs B has given us her complete and 
honest recollections of what  happened  when she was sold her pension  plan. But Im mindful 
that the events  she has told us about  took place over ten years  ago, and over such a long 
period of time, even the most careful memories can and do fade. Where  there  are 
differences between  what  Mrs B and Friends Life think  was discussed, I have needed to use 
the balance of probability in reaching  my decision  or, in other words, what I think is more  
likely to have happened.
I also think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to 
regulate or punish  businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I have no doubts  that online access to information  about her investments was something that 
Mrs B had at the forefront  of her mind  when she was deciding  whether or not to take a SIPP 
from Friends Life. I understand that Mrs B, and her husband, met with their financial advisor  
and a representative of Friends Life as part of that decision making process. And I therefore 
think it likely  that a discussion about the availability of online servicing would have formed 
part of those discussions.
But, on balance, I think it unlikely that Friends Life would  have  given Mrs B any assurances 
that it would  be able to provide online access to her investments in perpetuity.  Instead I think 
it more likely that Friends Life would  have confirmed that online servicing  was available and 
that there  were no plans  to make any changes to that availability. I think  it highly unlikely that 
any guarantees would have been  given, particularly since Mrs Bs investment would be 
expected to be in place  for a considerable time into the future.
I have also considered what other options  Mrs B might have  had in the wider  market place, if 
she had been  concerned  that Friends Life couldnt  give her a guarantee  of online access  for 
the lifetime of her investment. And, to be frank, I dont think any other provider  would have 
been likely  to give her such a guarantee either. 
So even if Friends Life had failed to make it clear that it couldnt guarantee online access 
indefinitely, I dont  think it would have led to Mrs B choosing a different provider  that 
provider couldnt  give her that guarantee  either.  So I dont think  it would be reasonable for 
me to conclude that Friends Life misled Mrs B when she took the SIPP  in 2008, or that she 
would have made a different decision if she should have been given clearer information.
The matters  that were placed  before  the courts largely related to the investment security and 
continuity of benefits that the policies provided.  But I have seen that Friends  Life confirmed  
to policyholders that;
there will be no changes to your policy terms and conditions, your policy  number, 
features, benefits or premiums;
the investment  strategy relevant to your chosen  funds will not be altered;  and
when you call us, you will speak to the same team of people  on the same phone  
number as you do now, and the level of service  you receive will not be altered.
Ref: DRN87469123So I dont  think it is reasonable for me to conclude that this information means that 
Friends Life misled Mrs B, or the courts, in relation to the online access to her accounts.  
I dont consider the online access  to be a term or condition of her policy  or indeed  a feature 
or benefit. I think those  relate to the way in which the policies are structured and things such  
as investment bonuses  and maturity dates. And I note that the website Mrs B used for her 
online access had been closed for some  time before the deadline for objections  to the court  
about the transfer.
I think the way in which Friends Life chooses to provide information  to its policyholders is 
very much a commercial decision  that it wouldnt be appropriate for this Service  to intervene 
on. I can see from the terms and conditions that were applicable when Mrs B first took her 
policy that Friends Life committed to send her statements  twice  a year. They  didnt contain 
any terms relating to the provision of information online. But even if they had, those same  
terms and conditions allowed Friends Life to make reasonable changes by giving 30 days 
notice to policyholders.
So overall I dont  think that Friends Life has acted inappropriately by temporarily withdrawing 
Mrs Bs ability to view her investments online.  And I dont think  that online access  was 
something that Mrs B was guaranteed when she originally took her SIPP,  and so I dont  
conclude that it was originally mis-sold to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Friends Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8746912