K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 2001 and a further 
advance in 2004. It covered Mr and Mrs P, in case they were off work sick or lost their jobs. 
Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI with a regular monthly premium. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint in regard to the policy sold with the mortgage in 2001 
but didnt uphold the policy taken  out with the further advance in 2004. Both parties  agreed 
with the adjudicators view on the policy sold with the further advance in 2004 but Nationwide 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion on the policy sold in 2001,  so the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
To be clear my decision  is only in relation to the policy  sold with the mortgage to Mr and 
Mrs P in 2001.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
Based on what Ive seen,  I think Mr and Mrs Ps PPI policy  was mis-sold,  and Ill explain  
why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs P, so it didnt have  to check it was 
right for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs P information about  the policy that was 
clear, fair, and not misleading, so they could decide  for themselves whether it was right for 
them.
I dont think the information  Nationwide gave  them  about the cover  for people employed on 
fixed term contracts was as clear as it should have been. I say this because I cant see that 
the mortgage application made clear the relevant limitations in the policy. Nationwide argues  
that Mr and Mrs P would have been provided  a MPPI leaflet before taking out the policy 
But I cant safely say they received this or read this before  completing  the application. 
Nationwide had a duty to give Mr and Mrs P all the information they needed  to make an 
informed decision.  And just saying a leaflet would have been provided  isnt meeting that 
obligation. The relevant limitations and exclusions needed to be made  clear  in full at the time 
of the sale.
Mr and Mrs P told us Mrs P was on a contract with her employer  this is also clear in the 
mortgage application they completed. However, the PPI policy did not cover unemployment 
claims for people who were employed  on a contract, unless theyd been continuously 
employed with the same  employer for at least one year and the contract needed to have 
Ref: DRN87205352been previously  renewed   but the application clearly show she hadnt  been in that 
employment for a year nor had her contract  been  previously  renewed. 
So it doesnt  look like the policy was of much use to Mrs P in her employment situation.  And 
so if Nationwide  had given Mr and Mrs P clear  enough information about  the policys  
exclusions, then I dont think theyd have bought it. And so I think Mr and Mrs P have most 
likely lost out because  of what Nationwide did wrong.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs P in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
If the Nationwide has already repaid  any commission amount, in relation to this 
mortgage, to Mr and Mrs P that relates  to this PPI sale,  that sum can be deducted by 
FICL from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs P can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, and to direct Nationwide  
Building Society to put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8720535