K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about PPI that Mr D had alongside a credit  card in 1996.  It protected his 
monthly card repayments if he couldnt work  as a result of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mr D mainly says that he doesnt recall  any mention  of PPI and he thinks  it unlikely that he 
wouldve agreed to take it out given his financial circumstances  and job benefits at the time. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mr D being able to remember everything  as it happened so long ago. So I cant  know  
exactly what the bank  mightve said to Mr D when he took out PPI. 
Bank of Scotland has provided  an example of a credit card application. But I dont  know if 
this is like the form Mr D wouldve filled in as I dont know exactly when he applied for his 
credit card. And its unclear how he took out the PPI. So Im not relying on this.
Where theres only limited information and disagreement about what  happened I have to 
look at all the available information and decide  what I think is most likely. The standard  of 
proof that I must apply is the balance of probabilities. It looks to me as if Mr D couldve 
benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim. So, on balance, I think its more likely that 
Mr D decided he wanted to have the benefits PPI offered  and Bank of Scotland added PPI to 
his account at his request. 
Bank of Scotland said that in fairness to Mr D it would treat his complaint as if it had advised 
him personally to take out the PPI. I think thats  the fairest way to look at his complaint as it 
imposes an extra obligation on Bank  of Scotland. It means Bank of Scotland not only had to 
give Mr D important policy information in a clear way. It also had to take reasonable steps  to 
make sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for Mr D. 
Bank of Scotland told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document from the exact 
date when Mr D took out his credit card. But Ive seen a copy  of the policy  that came into use 
afterwards. So I think its likely that in all main  respects the policy Mr D signed  up to wouldve 
had similar terms  to this. 
Ref: DRN88911572Ive taken into account that he said his income and savings jointly  held wouldve been 
considerable and far more than necessary to cover  repayments on the account. He also told 
us that he had a small, shared mortgage  and his living accommodation away from home  was 
paid by his employer. But I dont think this means  that PPI was unsuitable for Mr D based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr D told us he was entitled  to sick pay for a considerable time  although  he couldnt be 
more exact and Ive seen  nothing to indicate  what his contractual  entitlement  to sick pay 
wouldve been. Giving him the benefit of the doubt,  I have assumed that he mightve  had as 
much as 12 months sick leave with full pay  it would be very unusual for someone to be 
able to rely on getting more than 12 months  full pay. 
Its likely  that the policy  would have paid more  than his minimum credit  card repayments in 
addition to this sick pay, for up to 12 months if he couldnt work, giving Mr D a useful benefit 
at a difficult time - especially bearing  in mind  that he mightve had extra costs if he was off 
work sick or disabled.
I dont know if hed always have  had joint savings he could  rely on. And as Mr D mentioned 
that his credit card was used for both essential  and non-essential spending, this suggests  to 
me that he might not always have had ready access to as much spare cash as he couldve 
needed to pay his credit card bills each  month.  So I think the PPI couldve been useful if 
Mr D had needed to make a claim. And I havent  seen enough to be able to say that Bank of 
Scotlands recommendation (if it made one) was unsuitable in his particular circumstances. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The policy didnt  cover some things.  But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr D. So, I dont  think having more information about the policy  exclusions and 
limitations wouldve  made any difference to Mr Ds decision  to take out PPI.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr D when he bought  the policy. But from 
what Ive seen, the monthly premiums seem to have been affordable for him when he took 
the policy out. Mr D paid for the PPI each  month  so he couldve cancelled  the policy at any 
time without  losing out financially if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to 
pay to keep it running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr D still wouldve  decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed  as PPI gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8891157