K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in Mr Ws sole name in 2004. The 
policy was taken out when Mr and Mrs W were applying to borrow extra  on their mortgage.  
The policy provided  Mr W with cover for accident  and sickness and, from a couple  of months 
later on, for unemployment too. The monthly cost of the policy was £75.37 and the monthly  
benefit was £1,248. This would have  been  paid for up to 12 months for each claim.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. Santander disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. I have also taken account of 
the law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy  was sold. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
-If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ws needs?
-Did Santander give Mr and Mrs W the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs W are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr W recalls that Santander made  him believe that the PPI was part of the mortgage and he 
had to have it. He also says he didnt need it as he had good work benefits  and some  
savings to help him meet  his mortgage  payments if necessary. I dont need to make  a finding 
about whether  or not Santander presented the policy as optional,  because I have another 
reason for upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Santander says that this was an advised  sale. This means that, in recommending the policy, 
it needed to ensure that it suited Mr and Mrs Ws needs. I do not think  it was suitable based 
on his circumstances  at the time of the sale. I say this because:
Ref: DRN87620692Mr W had a pre-existing medical  condition  at the time of the sale.  He would have been 
unable to make a claim for any sickness connected  to that condition unless the condition had 
not reoccurred  for 24 months prior to the claim being  made.  Mr W has told us about a 
serious  or potentially  serious  and ongoing  condition he had, that had been diagnosed a 
couple of years previously. Santander said that it wanted proof of this before it would uphold 
Mr Ws complaint,  in part because Mr W had initially said he had no pre-existing conditions 
at the time the PPI was sold.
Mr W asked his healthcare providers for some evidence. They  believe  his original paperwork 
from the time  nearly 20 years ago  has been destroyed,  but have provided some 
evidence to show Mr W had the same illness in 2011. Santander  says thats not enough to 
show Mr W had the condition in 2004.
I understand Santanders concern. But Mr W has explained he didnt mention his condition 
initially because he was unsure when he bought the PPI. I think  thats  reasonable, given hed 
taken his mortgage out some years before 2004   the PPI wasnt  sold until he and Mrs W 
wanted to borrow  extra money. And I think Mr W has been  consistent in how hes described  
his illness   which he still had many years later.
I accept that the exclusion  is described  in the terms and conditions for the policy,  but I dont 
think this means the exclusion  was sufficiently drawn to Mr Ws attention. I think  that if it had 
been, he and Mrs W most  likely wouldnt  have  taken the policy.
In summary,  I do not consider the PPI was suitable  for Mr W because of his pre-existing 
medical condition,  which would have limited his ability to make a successful claim for 
sickness. 
what the business should  do to put things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs W in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy was cancelled a long time ago, so Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs W the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs W a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs W compensation  in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Ref: DRN87620693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8762069