K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Assurant General Insurance  Limited  (Assurant)  have 
declined their claim after Mr Cs mobile  phone was lost / stolen.  
background
Mr and Mrs C have mobile phone and gadget insurance through  their joint bank account with 
a high street  bank.  Mrs C contacted Assurant in August 2018  and raised a claim on her 
husbands behalf. She said Mr C had been attacked  and his phone stolen. Mr C then 
submitted a claim form and said his phone had fallen out of his pocket while  he was at work.  
Assurant referred the claim  to its Higher  Claims Assessment Team  because the versions  of 
the event given by Mr and Mrs C did not match. Mr C told Assurant he hadnt  wanted to say 
he was assaulted because he was scared.  Mr C said he didnt know his wife had told 
Assurant what happened and he filled out the form in the way he did as he just wanted to get 
the phone  replaced.  
Mr C later reported the theft of the phone  to the police, as he was told by Assurant that he 
needed a crime  reference number. Mr C told the police he was using his phone  when it was 
snatched from his hand by a group of youths on push bikes. 
 
Assurant declined the claim in early  September under the policy term that says it wont  
honour a claim if a consumer knowingly provides false or fraudulently  exaggerated  
information to support  a claim.  It also said the crime reference number couldnt be validated. 
Mr C contacted the police and asked  for confirmation of the crime reference number, which 
was provided. He also told the police he was assaulted when the phone was stolen. And this 
was contrary to what he told the police when he first reported the theft.  The police 
questioned why he hadnt reported this when he first contacted them  and he said he had 
been scared to report the full details earlier. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Assurant about  the claim being turned down. Assurant 
responded in October and said it wouldnt overturn the decision to decline the claim.  It said 
Mr and Mrs C provided details  of at least three different incidents  and it cannot  assess  the 
claim as it doesnt know which version  is correct.  
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  with the response  and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said Assurant declined the claim under the policy  
term that says a claim can be rejected if false or inaccurate information  is provided and fraud 
is identified. She said its understandable that Assurant queried the claim given the different 
versions of events provided by Mr and Mrs C. 
However, our investigator said that in order to decline the claim as fraudulent,  Assurant 
would need to demonstrate that fraud - when a claimant attempts to obtain some benefit or 
advantage they are not entitled to - has taken place.  Our investigator said in a Supreme 
Court ruling (Versloot 2016) the Court outlined the important difference  between  a fraudulent 
claim and a justified  claim supported by lies that dont make a real difference.  So if a 
claimant is dishonest  whilst  claiming for something  they would've been  entitled to anyway - 
based on the true facts - this isn't enough to decline a claim.
Ref: DRN86117932Our investigator considered whether an insured event  took place. She said the only relevant 
anomaly in the information provided  by Mr C is in the claim form, which  Mr C has explained. 
Mrs C has also provided evidence to show they've  blacklisted the phone and this was to 
demonstrate they're not claiming for something  that they're still using or still in possession  of. 
Our investigator concluded that Assurant had not demonstrated that fraud has taken place. 
And, although incorrect information  was provided when making  the claim, a genuine insured 
event seemed to have  taken place.
Assurant responded  and said it does  not consider the claim to be fraudulent  but the 
information provided by Mr and Mrs C cannot  be relied on to explain what happened. It said 
the inconsistencies in their accounts  are supported by the police  report, the claim form and 
Mrs Cs attitude to false statements being provided.  And all of these  make  it difficult  for 
Assurant to assess the claim. It said it cannot  evidence a loss or a theft has occurred 
because of the lack of credibility of the claimants. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. 
Before I explain why, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all of the arguments 
and comments made,  Ive limited my response to the issue  I consider to be central to this 
complaint. That is to say whether Assurant acted  fairly when it declined  the claim on the 
basis that it cannot be certain  a loss or theft has occurred because Mr and Mrs C are not 
credible claimants. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs C each provided  Assurant  with different versions  of what  happened  
when Mr Cs phone was lost or stolen. And Mr C also provided two different versions of what 
happened when  he reported the theft to the police. So its understandable that Assurant  
didnt consider Mr and Mrs C to be credible witnesses and decided to investigate  the validity 
of the claim. 
Assurant originally declined the claim under the term that says it can reject  a claim and 
cancel a policy if false or inaccurate  information is provided and fraud is identified. But it has 
also said it hasnt assessed this claim as fraudulent and it has been turned down because  
Mr and Mrs C arent  considered credible claimants. 
I think it would be helpful to outline our approach to situations where false  information is 
provided by consumers in support of a claim.  And this is that if the information  doesnt affect 
whether a claim might be paid out or how much is paid out, the claim shouldnt  be treated as 
fraudulent. This principle  was established following a Supreme Court  ruling  (Versloot) in 
2016. And this ruling outlined the difference between a fraudulently exaggerated claim and a 
justified claim, albeit one supported by lies. 
Applying that ruling to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint,  Im satisfied that while  Assurant were 
provided with contradictory information, the different versions of events provided didnt serve 
to exaggerate  the claim. So theres  nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs C lied about what  
happened in order  to claim more than they were potentially entitled  to. 
Looking at whether  an insured event has taken  place,  Assurant said it cannot evidence  that 
a loss or theft has taken place because of the lack of credibility of the claimants. But I dont 
Ref: DRN86117933think Assurant need to rely only on Mr and Mrs Cs testimony when deciding if an insured 
event has taken place.  Mr and Mrs C have  provided  information to show  that they have 
blacklisted the phone since  the date of the loss and that it hasnt been  in use since  August 
2018. And I think this is enough information to demonstrate that the insured event, the loss 
of the phone, has occurred.  
So given that Assurant arent  treating this as fraud  and the different versions of events dont 
appear to have  been provided in order to exaggerate the value of the claim, Im satisfied 
that Assurant wasnt  acting fairly when it declined the claim. And for this reason I think the 
fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Assurant to pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim, 
subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Assurant General Insurance  
Limited to assess and pay Mr and Mrs Cs claim,  subject to the remaining terms of the 
policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 October  2019.
Martina Ryan 
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN8611793