K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about Admiral  Insurance Company Limiteds actions 
following a claim on their motor insurance policy.
Mr H is a named driver on Mrs Hs policy. Mr H was driving at the time of the accident 
leading to the claim. And hed taken  the lead in bringing this complaint. So, for ease,  where I 
refer to Mr Hs comments  alone those should  be read as being on behalf of both himself  and 
Mrs H.
background
Mr H was driving Mrs Hs car and was stationary in a queue of traffic  when  a driver shunted 
the car behind him into the back of his car. Mr H was in turn shunted into the car in front of 
him. In all four cars were  involved in the accident. The driver who caused  the accident  ran 
away. The police didn't ever trace him. 
Admiral settled the claim for the total loss of Mrs Hs car. Mr H was unhappy with a number 
of aspects of Admirals service. And, over a series of complaints, Admiral  acknowledged that 
it hadn't got everything right and paid Mr H a total of £580 in compensation to address the 
impact of its errors  and omissions.
Mr H remained  unhappy and bought his complaint to us. Our investigator  thought  that 
Admiral had done enough to put things right. Mr H didn't agree so his complaint's  been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr H has made  many  detailed  points. But while I've considered 
everything hes said carefully I don't intend  to address every point made in this decision.  
Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding points following our 
investigators assessments  of the complaint.
Its clear that Mr H was in no way to blame  for the accident. And he feels  Admiral  has treated 
him unfairly  because, through no fault of his own, the policys no claims bonus  (NCB) has 
been reduced, hes had to pay an excess and his future premiums have been affected.  But 
while I can understand his frustration that doesn't mean Admiral has done anything  wrong.
Admiral has acknowledged that Mr H wasnt to blame for the accident, and its pointed  him to 
the part of the policy that explains  that a NCB is exactly that. That is its only awarded  where  
no claim has been made and isn't always allowed where theres  no blame associated with 
an accident. So, its said that the NCB is affected  by the claim in this case.
It might help if I explain that insurers often refer to claims as being  fault or non-fault. But 
these terms are really a form of shorthand and are somewhat misleading. A fault claim 
doesn't mean that the policyholder  was to blame  for the accident or claim, just that the 
insurer hasn't been  able to recover its cost for settling the claim. So, when  a car's been 
stolen and not recovered, or, like in this case,  when the damage was caused by an 
Ref: DRN81340082unidentified third party, as the insurer has no-one  to recover  their costs from theyll refer to it 
as being a fault claim. And in those circumstances a consumers NCB will most likely be 
affected. And thats how insurers  record such  incidents on a shared database of claims (the 
claims and underwriting  exchange (CUE)). They  don't  actually record them  as fault or non-
fault but rather they say whether or not the NCB has been allowed or not. And where - as 
here - Admiral  has no prospect of recovering its costs it won't  allow the NCB and so, in 
insurers shorthand,  that's known as a fault claim. Thats what Admiral has done in this case,  
and I think its done so reasonably.
Mr H said that the car immediately behind his was insured. It was the car at the back of the 
queue that shunted the other car into him which wasn't insured. So he might  wonder why 
Admiral can't claim its outlay from the car immediately behind him in the accident. But as I 
understand it in order for an insurer to claim its losses from another  drivers  insurer that 
driver has to have been in some way negligent for the incident leading  to the claim. In this 
case, as far as Im aware, the driver immediately behind Mr H wasn't negligent. Their  car 
was shunted forward into Mr H by the force of the other car, driven by the man who ran 
away, hitting it. I don't  think that makes the driver behind Mr H in any way negligent. 
Also I understand that the force  of the impact  shunted Mr H into the car in front of him. And 
the driver  behind Mr H would be no more  to blame  for the damage to Mr Hs car than Mr H 
would be for hitting the car in front of him. So, I think Admiral settled the claim reasonably.  It 
couldn't hold the driver behind Mr H to blame,  and the driver behind  him ran away  and 
wasn't ever traced. As a result, Admiral  couldn't recover its costs.  So, it didn't allow Mr and 
Mrs Hs NCB. 
I understand Mr H was put to a great deal of inconvenience because of the accident and he 
incurred a number  of additional  costs,  including the loss of his excess and other out of 
pocket expenses. But Admiral isn't responsible for those costs. Those are things that are 
known as uninsured losses, so theyre not covered by the policy. Had the other  driver  been 
traced Mr H might have been able to instruct a solicitor to recover some  of those costs from 
the driver  that caused  the accident, but thats  not the case here. That said I understand Mr H 
has claimed from the Motor Insurers Bureau (MIB) who might  be able to reimburse him. But 
as those aren't  things covered by the policy, Admiral isnt responsible for Mr Hs uninsured  
losses or for the inconvenience he was put to by the accident. So, I don't think  Admiral  
needs to do anything more concerning those issues.
Mr H wasn't happy with the valuation Admiral put on Mrs Hs car when  it said it was a total 
loss. I should  explain  that it's not my role to value  cars but Ill look to see that an insurers  
reached its valuation  reasonably.  Mrs Hs policy says that if her car is a total loss, Admiral  
will pay her its market value. So I've looked  at how Admiral arrived  at that valuation.  Our 
usual approach to complaints about valuation is to look at a number of motor  industry 
accepted trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these reliable as theyre 
based on nationwide research of likely selling prices. And I find them more persuasive  than 
figures cars are advertised for, as those are often inflated to allow  for negotiation  and don't  
reflect the actual  sale price. 
In this case, I can see that Admirals valuation of Mrs Hs car was the highest  amount given  
by any of the trade guides. So, Im satisfied  that Admirals valuation  of Mrs Hs car was 
reasonable.
As I've said above, I understand that Mr H has had to put up with a lot of inconvenience  and 
frustration as a result  of the accident.  But Admiral  wasn't responsible for all of that. And its 
Ref: DRN81340083acknowledged that it didn't get everything right. To address the impact of flaws  in its service 
its paid Mr H £580 compensation in total. I think thats reasonable in the circumstances as 
its in line with awards that we would make in cases of similar  seriousness.  So, while it would 
have been better if Admirals service had been  smoother,  I think  its done enough to put 
things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8134008