K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  reimbursed  or recovered money he lost as a
result of a scam.
background
On 11 November 2017 Mr E made an online payment of £634.30  to a third-party account 
(the beneficiary account) to pay for a bike. He says that hed never  before  made  a payment 
like this, so he called  and spoke to HSBC who talked him through  how to make the payment. 
Mr E subsequently came to understand that hed been  scammed by the third party and he 
reported the matter  to HSBC.
HSBC didnt recover or refund to Mr E the money  he lost. Mr E remained unhappy and 
referred his complaint about HSBC here.
As part of its submissions to us, HSBC offered Mr E compensation of £50 because  it said it 
could have handled its calls with Mr E better when he rang to report  the fraud. Our 
adjudicator thought this was fair and didnt recommend that HSBC should be required to do 
more than this. Mr E remains unhappy,  so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
I sent Mr E and HSBC  my provisional decision on 14 January 2021 explaining why I was 
intending to decide that HSBCs offer to pay Mr E £50 to settle the complaint was fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
HSBC accepted my provisional decision.  Mr E did not  and he made further points  which Ill 
address below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my 
provisional decision. Ive explained  my reasons again below. 
I know Mr E has been waiting for this final answer for a long time and this isnt the outcome 
hes been hoping  for. I understand  why he has wanted to do all he can to try to get his 
money back. And I have no reason to doubt that Mr E has, as he says,  been the victim of a 
scam. Im really  sorry hes lost this money.  Here,  however, I need to decide  whether it would 
be fair and reasonable for HSBC, in all the circumstances  of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. Overall, Im satisfied that it wouldnt  and Ill explain why. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Ref: DRN87455772Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
Thats not the end of the story though.  The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its 
customer if it makes  a payment in circumstances where it has reasonable grounds (although 
not necessarily proof) for believing  that the payment  instruction  was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).  And regulated 
firms like HSBC  are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to identify and help prevent transactions   particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam.  This is 
particularly so in light of the environment  created  by the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the average  
customer.
So, with all this in mind,  I have considered the position carefully.  Ive reviewed Mr Es 
account statements  leading up to the payment. And overall and in the context of Mr Es 
normal spending and account usage,  Im satisfied it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say 
the payment of £634.30 on 11 November 2017 should have appeared unusual  or suspicious 
to HSBC such that it should have reasonably suspected Mr E was at risk of financial harm.  
Mr E made a similarly  sized payment  of £639 in September 2017. And Im not satisfied in the 
particular circumstances  here that the payment being to a new payee should have made 
HSBC automatically suspicious that Mr E was at financial harm.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr E has said about him never  before  having made an 
online bank  transfer like this, so he says he called and spoke  to HSBC at the time who 
talked him through the payment. Mr E says he told HSBC he was buying a bike and where 
hed seen it advertised on the internet.  He says HSBC didnt ask him any specific  questions 
about the purchase or give any scam warnings. HSBC says it doesnt  have a copy of this 
call. I have no reason  to doubt what either party says about this. Ive therefore thought  
carefully about whether HSBC unreasonably  missed an opportunity during this call to 
unearth the scam  and prevent the payment.
I cant know now exactly what was discussed during  this call but from the available  
information it seems most likely that HSBC simply helped Mr E put his payment request 
through, as he asked  it to. And Im not persuaded by the information Ive seen  that I can 
reasonably say HSBC  ought to have been concerned that Mr E was at risk of financial harm  
such that it should question or probe him further before following his instruction to make the 
payment. So overall I am satisfied here that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say HSBC  
did something wrong by following the instructions Mr E gave it to send the money without 
questioning him about the payment further, such that it should  be held liable for his loss.
Regarding attempted recovery of the money,  Mr E notified HSBC  on 17 November 2017 of 
the suspected scam. At this point HSBC should  have  acted  quickly to try to recover  Mr Es 
money from the beneficiary  account. HSBCs records  indicate that it did quickly raise the 
case internally but there was a delay before it made contact with the receiving bank. And I 
note HSBC has offered  Mr E compensation of £50 for how it handled  his calls on 
17 November 2017. I am not satisfied HSBCs delay in contacting the receiving bank has 
made a difference in this case. As I understand matters, the receiving bank has said it would 
Ref: DRN87455773need an indemnity  (a legal agreement accepting all liability  for the returning  funds, as I 
understand matters)  from HSBC to freeze the beneficiary account and return  Mr Es money.
HSBC says its policy is not to raise  indemnities in circumstances  like this. I understand why, 
in these circumstances, Mr E is frustrated with HSBC  from a practical point of view. 
However, it would  not be fair to say HSBC  should  be held liable for Mr E not recovering  his 
money because it didnt provide an indemnity. There was no requirement for HSBC  to do 
this. And I am mindful that the APP Voluntary Best Practice Standards (issued by UK 
Finance and Financial  Fraud  Action UK and in force from April 2018) clarified recovery  
standards in the industry. Irrespective of the date, the receiving bank would not have been 
bound by these.  But in any event, these standards set out that the sending bank (here, 
HSBC) needs to start the recovery process; but if the receiving bank requests something in 
addition to this  such as an indemnity  the sending bank  is not obliged  to provide this.
I understand from Mr Es response to my provisional  decision that he is very unhappy that 
HSBC hasnt sent an indemnity to the receiving bank. Hes asked  that I insist  that HSBC  
send a refund request including an indemnity of liability  to the receiving bank. However, 
HSBC has tried to recover Mr Es funds for him  and done  what I would expect it to have 
done  but it has then been asked by the receiving bank to provide legal liability for 
something its not required to. I dont  think  its fair to hold HSBC  responsible  in these  
circumstances.
 
Im also satisfied that HSBCs offer to pay Mr E compensation  of £50 for the way it handled 
his calls on 17 November 2017  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I know this will be disappointing to Mr E and I do empathise with the situation  he has found 
himself in. Ultimately, however, it was the scammer  that tricked Mr E. And whilst I note he 
has said a different customer has been refunded their loss by the receiving bank, I must 
decide Mr Es complaint  on its own individual merits. For the reasons Ive explained, Ive 
decided that it would  not be fair and reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for Mr Es loss, 
and that HSBCs offer to pay Mr E £50 is fair in all of the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided that HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered  to pay Mr E 
£50 to settle the complaint, and that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  and 
that HSBC UK Bank Plc should therefore  pay Mr E £50 in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8745577