K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the overdraft charges Barclays  Bank  UK PLC has applied  to his 
Barclays bank account. He has also said these charges have  led him into financial difficulty.  
 
background
Mr F initially had a Graduate  Current account  with Barclays. Barclays later changed the 
account to a Barclays Bank account.  Since the account was changed  to a Barclays  Bank  
account Mr F has received charges relating to the overdraft on this new account. Mr F has 
already complained to our service  about Barclays changing the account from the Graduate 
account. When he complained to us previously, he also complained  about  the charges 
applied to the new account.  Another  ombudsman has, in 2017, made a decision on this part 
of Mr Fs complaint. So I wont be looking into these points.
But I can look into the charges that have been applied to Mr Fs account since  July 2017, 
when a decision was issued on his previous complaint. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays had done anything wrong in applying  the charges to 
Mr Fs account.  They thought the charges had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. They also thought that Barclays had done enough to try to help Mr 
F, by contacting him when it thought he might have  been in financial difficulty. Mr F didnt 
agree with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision 
on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen copies  of Mr Fs bank account statements. They show  Mr F has consistently been  
using the overdraft facility on his account. And because of this, I can see he has been 
charged on a monthly basis  for using the facility. He has also sometimes  gone  over the 
overdraft limit, and Barclays has charged him for doing so.
In 2009 the Supreme Court decided  that unauthorised overdraft charges (as some  of the 
charges on Mr Fs account  were) couldnt  be challenged for being  too high and that these 
charges were in effect part of the price a customer agreed to pay for a range of services,  for 
example unauthorised use of the overdraft.  The courts couldnt therefore say those charges 
were unfair simply because they appeared to be high. And so I dont think  it would be 
appropriate for me to say these sorts of charges on Mr Fs account  were too high.  
Its up to Barclays how it decides how much it charges for the use of its services  including 
the cost of the authorised  use of the overdraft. And we wouldnt normally interfere with a 
banks commercial discretion. 
As Ive already  mentioned,  Mr F made  a complaint  to our service  previously about the 
overdraft charges applied to his account.  The ombudsman who looked at that complaint also 
let Mr F know that she wouldnt intervene in Barclays commercial decision in terms of the 
level of charges. The charges for both authorised  and unauthorised use of Mr Fs account 
havent changed since we looked into this complaint in 2017  and so I cant add anything to 
what the previous  ombudsman  said in respect  of the level of the charges.
Ref: DRN88176592Looking at the charges that have  been  applied for the usage of Mr Fs account since 
July 2017, both authorised and unauthorised,  I think they were added correctly  and in line 
with the accounts terms and conditions.  So I dont think  Barclays has done anything wrong 
in adding the charges to Mr Fs account.
If Barclays knew Mr F was in financial difficulty  it had to treat him positively and 
sympathetically. And I think it did. Barclays sent Mr F letters  in January and July 2018 about 
the overdraft charges  that had been  applied to the account. Both letters gave  Mr F more 
information about what to do if he was finding it difficult  to manage his money.  So in the 
circumstances I think Barclays has done  enough . It would then have been up to Mr F to get 
in touch with Barclays for more help if he wanted  to  and I cant  see anything to show that 
hes done this at this stage.
As this is the second time Mr F has complained  about the charges and interest on this 
account, it might be worth  Mr F considering moving to a different lending facility  if he remains 
unhappy with Barclays position.
my final decision
So for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold  Mr Fs complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8817659