K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund  disputed transactions  made  from his 
account. 
Background
Mr M says fraudulent bank transfers were made from his Santander savings account on the 
18 and 19 December 2017. 
On the 18 December 2017 a new payee was set up via Mr Ms online banking and £14,000 
was transferred out. Then on the 19 December 2017 a further £15,800 was transferred out 
to the same  payee.  Mr M says that prior to the disputed transactions he clicked  on a link on 
a suspicious email which he now thinks was pretending to be from Santander. And during 
the disputed transactions he didnt have the use of his phone because  his network was 
down and he thinks a SIM swap was performed. 
Santander investigated and decided not to refund the disputed transactions.  
As Mr M didnt agree with Santanders outcome  he asked us to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld and thought that Mr M 
most likely authorised the transactions. In summary  she said:
-She hadnt seen  any evidence  of a fraudulent email.
-There wasnt a convincing explanation for how Mr Ms security details were  
compromised.
-The evidence from the mobile  phone provider,  Ill call T, showed Mr Ms phone  hadnt 
been subject to a SIM swap  at the time of the disputed transactions.
Mr M didnt  accept our investigators outcome.  Mr M said hed provided evidence that his 
security details were compromised  and his network  was down at the time of the disputed 
transactions. And hes unable to provide the fraudulent email, or evidence  of a virus on his 
laptop, due to the length of time since the disputed  transactions.  
As Mr M didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
Generally, Santander  can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ms genuine account details were 
used to make the disputed transactions. But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Santander to hold him liable.  So I also need  to think about 
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr M consented  to the 
transfers being made.
Ref: DRN84261812From what  Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Santander  to conclude Mr M 
authorised the transactions. I say this because:
-The disputed transfers were made using Mr Ms online banking  but theres no 
convincing explanation for how a fraudster gained access  to his account. Mr M says 
that he received  a suspicious email pretending to be from Santander and he clicked  
on a link  but hes been unable to provide  any evidence of this. 
-When the first disputed transaction was made a new payee was set up using Mr Ms 
online banking. As an additional security measure Santander sent a one-time 
passcode or OTP to Mr Ms phone number,  which was entered  into Mr Ms online 
banking. Mr M says that his phone  was subject to a SIM swap at the time of the 
disputed transactions,  but Ive seen evidence from T that strongly  indicates  this 
wasnt the case.
-On both occasions the disputed transactions were authenticated Santanders 
automated fraud prevention system was triggered and they asked Mr M to confirm he 
authorised the transactions. Ive listened  to the first phone call that was made to the 
bank on the 18 December 2017  and four security questions were  asked by the 
bank and answered correctly. Ive seen no convincing  explanation for how a fraudster 
could have known  these details. Although Im satisfied its more likely than not this 
call wasnt made  by Mr M, he doesnt need to have carried  out the phone  calls or 
transfers himself to be liable under the relevant  rules. Mr M can still be held liable if 
he authorised the transfers or the use of his online banking account, which Im 
satisfied he more  likely than not did. 
For the reasons  Ive explained above I find, on balance, that Mr M authorised the disputed  
transactions. It follows that Santander  is entitled  to hold Mr M liable for them. 
My Final  Decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8426181