K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that UK Insurance Limited  trading as Churchill  (Churchill) didnt act 
fairly or reasonably when dealing with Mrs Bs claim under a legal expenses insurance 
policy. They  want a second opinion about her claim paid for by Churchill.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a legal expenses insurance policy with Churchill. Mrs B wanted to bring a 
professional negligence claim,  which  she said was complicated and shouldve meant that 
she could choose  her own solicitor under the terms and conditions of the policy. Churchill  
appointed a panel solicitor. Mrs B was unhappy that the solicitor advised that her claim had 
less than a 51% chance of success and said so in his written advice, rather than waiting until 
speaking to her to ensure that he understood the claim.
Mrs B complained to Churchill. It agreed  that the solicitor  didnt  follow her instruction to 
speak to her before writing, but he had spoken  to her about the claim. Churchill said that the 
solicitor was experienced in the area of law, and in his advice showed that he did understand 
all the issues. It pointed  out that if the advice was that the claim had didnt  have more  than 
50% chance of success, under the terms and conditions of the policy the claim wouldnt be 
covered. Churchill  said it would consider  a second opinion obtained by Mrs B at her own 
cost and would refund this if the second  opinion said that the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success.  It paid £50 compensation for the time taken to respond to the 
complaint.
Mrs B complained to us, and said that she wanted to appoint  a solicitor  of her choice to deal 
with the claim. The investigators view was that this service couldnt advise on the law, but 
the advice given was detailed and reasoned  from a qualified  professional  person so it was 
fair for Churchill to rely on it. She also thought it was fair for Churchill  to tell Mrs B to get her 
own second opinion  and if the opinion said the claim had reasonable prospects of success, 
that it would  refund the cost. The investigator  didnt think the connection  between  Churchill 
and the panel solicitors  affected the advice given, particularly as solicitors  had their own 
professional duties.
Mrs B disagreed. She said that the investigator  hadnt understood the matter  at all and 
reached a flawed conclusion. Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that the parties may feel Ive 
overlooked a point  due to the summary nature of this services decisions, but I have carefully 
read all the evidence available to me, while focusing on the key issues.
Complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity within the jurisdiction of this service,  so Ive 
dealt with the core of this complaint, which is about the appointment of the panel solicitor, 
Churchills actions following the advice given and the refusal  to pay for a second opinion in 
advance.
Ref: DRN88142212The terms and conditions  of the policy are clear   until the claims goes to court or if theres  a 
conflict of interest, Churchill  can appoint  its own panel solicitor to advise and deal with the 
matter. Theres nothing  within the policy saying that the position  is different for allegedly 
complicated claims, and the policy reflects this services general position. There may be rare 
occasions when  a case is so unusual or complex  that a panel firm isnt able to deal with it, 
but that isnt the case here.  I cant say Churchill  acted unfairly or unreasonably in appointing 
the panel solicitor.
The policy also says that only claims with more than a 50% chance of success will be 
covered, and if theres a dispute  about  the prospects of success,  the policyholder should pay 
for a second  opinion.  Churchill has confirmed that if Mrs B does so, and if the second 
opinion supports her view of the claim,  it will refund the cost of that opinion  and look to cover  
the claim under the policy again.  This is consistent with this services  view of good  industry  
practice and I cant say Churchills position is unfair  or unreasonable. Terms  like these  are 
very common in legal expenses policies.
It isnt the role of this service to deal with complaints about the professional conduct of 
solicitors, so I cant comment  on the actual advice or failure to call Mrs B by the solicitor 
before writing, other  than to observe that the advice is detailed and from a solicitor  who 
appears to have experience in the relevant  field of law. Its fair and reasonable for Churchill  
to rely upon  the advice of a suitably qualified solicitor unless the advice is obviously wrong 
(in other words, obvious to any lay person  that the advice is wrong).  This advice is lengthy 
and sets out the solicitors reasoning in detail, so it was reasonable for Churchill to rely on it. 
Theres no evidence that the connection  between the panel solicitors and Churchill affected 
the advice given.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8814221