K821x#15complaint
Mr H, on behalf of RT (also represented  by Mrs S), says Cater Allen Limited has failed to 
credit RTs account with 12 payments made by a third party between December 2015 and 
August 2017.  
background
RT was due to receive 12 payments  from a third party. The third party  said they had been 
sent, and not returned, so the problem must  lie with the receiving bank Cater Allen. Cater 
Allen disagreed saying  it had returned  the payments as the third party  did not include an 
account number.  So it wasnt its error  and it wouldnt be crediting RTs account with the 
value of the 12 missing  payments.
Unhappy, Mr H came to us. He said he had revised RTs payment details with the third party 
after Cater Allen informed them about  a change to the way it accepted  payments, but the 12 
credits were  still missing. The third party maintains they were  not returned,  and as it made 
four other successful  payments  in November 2016 Mr H feels  it must be Cater Allens error. 
He also said Cater Allen told him on the phone it had received the payments.
Our first investigator concluded there had been no bank error, but found the final response 
letter to be poorly  worded  and confusing.  Mr H was unhappy  with this investigation, saying a 
number of the findings were inaccurate. A second  investigator said Cater  Allen  agreed  it had 
made changes to how it received international payments and had stopped manually  
allocating payments as it used  to. It was offering £100 as a gesture of goodwill for not 
communicating this to Mr H, and for any inconvenience caused. 
The investigator also said the bank had now evidenced that one of the 12 missing payments 
had credited RTs account on 4 January 2016.  And it had discovered that the other  
payments hadnt  been returned to the third party, rather they had been credited to other  
Cater Allen accounts in line with the third partys instructions. The bank  supplied  a list of the 
other payments showing the correct amounts and document number, but with different 
payee details  as sent by the third party. He explained this is why the other payments have 
never reached RTs account. Our investigator  concluded Cater  Allen  had allocated  the 
payments as instructed by the third party. So he couldnt find the bank had made a 
processing error.   
Mrs S disagreed, and supplied a list of the payments  made by the third party. Our 
investigator explained this only showed what was due and gave no information  about the 
payment details used  to settle the amounts  owing.  Mrs S said she would try to obtain more 
information. She then asked for an ombudsmans review saying, in summary,  Cater Allen 
has provided inconsistent  information throughout; it failed to notify  them that it had changed  
the way it processed  this type of payment; it has had a long time to provide evidence,  the 
third party less so; the new evidence needs  to be shared either  with them  or the third party; 
and our first investigation was inaccurate. 
So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  After reviewing the file I can see this has 
Ref: DRN88775872been a fragmented and frustrating investigation, with the most useful and pertinent 
information only made available by the bank more recently. In keeping  with our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service I will comment here only on the points that are material to 
the outcome of the complaint.  
Overall, I have  reached the same conclusion as the second investigator  and for the same  
reasons.
 
Based on the available evidence it seems Cater Allen followed the third partys payment 
instructions correctly. And this has led to amounts owing to RT being paid into other  Cater  
Allen accounts. I cant share the report that Ive relied on to reach this conclusion  with Mr H 
or Mrs S as it contains other  peoples  bank details. But I expect Cater Allen to provide the 
payee information for each missing payment to the third party in an appropriate format. Our 
investigator has already  provided the third partys case number and contact details to Cater 
Allen to enable it to progress this. I hope  this will lead to the resolution  of this issue for RT.  
I am in agreement with Mrs Ss other  points  about how Cater  Allen has handled this 
investigation. Its initial response to Mr H was incorrect; it then maintained it had returned the 
payments to the third party for over a year; and it provided us with misleading  responses 
during our investigation.  Cater Allen has already offered to pay RT £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill for the inconvenience  it caused  by not telling  it about the changes it made to how it 
processes these types of payments. 
I am awarding an additional  £100 compensation. This is to recognise  the inconvenience  
Cater Allen has caused RT by not completing a more thorough  and careful investigation at 
the outset. Cater Allen has agreed  to make this payment.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part. Cater Allen Limited  must  now pay RT £200  
compensation for the reasons set out above.  It must also ensure it provides the information 
to the third party in a timely manner.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H or Mrs S, on 
behalf of RT, to accept  or reject my decision before 14 December 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8877587