K821x#15complaint
Mrs W says the advice  given and the arrangements made by Insight Financial Associates 
Limited (Insight) to switch her personal  pension funds into a Family Pension Trust (FPT) with 
Rowanmoor and to facilitate investment  in overseas property  was unsuitable.
Mrs W is represented by Complaints SOS  Limited.
background
Mrs and Mr W received  advice about their pension  arrangements from Insight at the same  
time. And as Ill set out in more detail later, the outcome  for both was connected. But for the 
purposes of this decision, Ill focus primarily on Mrs W. Her husband has brought  a separate  
complaint which  is being  dealt with on its own merits.
The contemporaneous information available about Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives  at 
the time of the events complained about is limited.  I can see she was 42, married and was a 
housewife. Mrs W had a personal pension with Zurich which shed built up over 9 years. It 
was worth around £10,000.
It seems  Mrs and Mr W became aware of the possibility of buying into an overseas property  
development in Cape  Verde through an individual called Mr R. He worked for a mortgage 
broker company and also appears to have been an agent for The Resort  Group  (TRG).
Mr R informed Mrs and Mr W about  the proposal.  But while Ive seen various brochures and 
presentations that were available at the time about the Cape Verde development,  I dont 
know how fulsome, accurate or clear the information  they were given was. From  the 
paperwork it seems they didnt visit the site.
Its clear Mr W was interested in the Cape Verde prospect.  Ive seen the reservation  form he 
signed on 29 August  2009  for an apartment  indicating hed pay 45% of the contract price up 
front. The form indicated the source of the funding would be a self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP). Given  how events unfolded, Mrs W was presumably content.
Mr R knew Mrs and Mr W required regulated retirement planning advice. So, they were  
introduced to Insight  in 2009. This led to Mrs W agreeing  to switch her personal  pension into 
an FPT (a type of SIPP, providing  a single pension wrapper for her and her husband).  And 
this enabled her to invest with TRG in overseas property.
Mrs Ws Zurich  pension had a transfer value of just over £10,000. The switch  into her FPT 
was given effect. Mr Ws pension funds had also been moved across. So, on 26 February 
2010, payment  of just under £34,000 was made to TRG from their FPT cash  account, 
representing their investment in the Cape  Verde development.
Mrs W says she became  aware there might be a problem with her FPT and the switch of her 
personal pension  when she employed  a new financial adviser in 2017.  It informed  her the 
advice Insight had provided wasnt suitable.
Insight says it didnt  give Mrs W advice about the investment in overseas property. It says 
shed already made that decision and its role had simply been to identify a SIPP provider to 
satisfy her objectives. It had made her aware  of the risks she was being  exposed to. And it 
Ref: DRN84046962said because Mrs W was the director of a commercial property company, she had sufficient 
knowledge of the particular asset  class she was investing in.
Insight also said that Mrs W had a close association with Mr R, both being directors  in the 
same company. And it asserts this close relationship and the fact that Mr R was an agent  of 
TRG wouldve  influenced  her decision to invest irrespective of the advice it gave.
Insight also believes Mrs W brought her case too late because  she ought to have been 
aware of cause for concern  about  her investment more than three years prior to April 2018, 
when she first lodged  her complaint.
The adjudicator, and later separately an ombudsman,  concluded  that this Service  could 
consider the merits  of Mrs Ws case because shed brought  it on time. An investigator then 
upheld her complaint  identifying  failings with Insights advice and arrangements.  Insight 
disagreed and so Mrs Ws case has been  passed  to me for a decision.
Our jurisdiction to consider Mrs Ws complaint
The rules  about  complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. Insight has previously disputed this Services jurisdiction to consider Mrs Ws 
case. Its made arguments  that she made her complaint too late.
The Dispute Resolution rules (DISP) which  determine which complaints can be considered  
by this Service are set out in the regulators handbook. The rules include time limits by which 
complaints must be made. The DISP rule in this case is DISP 2.8.2. It says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b)three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless:
(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limitswas the 
result of exceptional circumstances
Its not in dispute  the event - the advice in 2009 for Mrs W to switch her pension funds into a 
FPT enabling the investment in overseas property - took place more  than six years  before 
she first complained in April 2018.  But Insight  says she also became aware,  or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware,  of cause to complain more than three years prior to this.
Another ombudsman  has already investigated whether we have  jurisdiction for Mrs Ws case  
and concluded  we do have authority to consider it. Ive reviewed the position again. I wont  
be rehearsing all the arguments shes already made, but Ive reached  the same  conclusion.
Insight has raised the issue  of Mrs and Mr W consolidating  their interests  in Cape Verde in 
March 2015, saying that this shouldve made  them aware there was a problem with the 
investment. It said this process  wouldve required them to sign new legal documents.  It says 
at this point they shouldve  asked  questions as to the reasons for having to alter the original 
Ref: DRN84046963agreement and about what the implications  of holding a fractional share in an apartment  
were.
In the circumstances of Mrs Ws case I dont think Insight has a telling argument here. I 
understand TRG clients were informed about certain  options  for financing the residual 
balance of their investments, some of which were  ruled out a few years later. But I dont 
think dealing  with the financing due on her property in 2014   which appears was resolved to 
her satisfaction through consolidation of her and her husbands investment with nothing  
further to pay - wouldve alerted her to the problem shes  raised now.
Insight also noted  Mrs Ws Cape Verde  property was completed late and that when rental 
income did come on stream this was less than suggested in the presentations made to 
customers. Ive no doubt  that these matters wouldve been a disappointment to her. But I 
think she knew she was making a long-term investment and so accepted  there would be a 
few bumps in the road. After  all, she was 42 and according to the fact-find didnt expect to 
retire until she was 75.
Im satisfied Mrs W had cause for complaint following commentary provided by her new 
financial adviser in 2017. This concluded  the advice Insight had given her to switch  her 
personal pension  had been flawed.  She raised her concerns in April 2018, so well within  the 
three-year time limit. And I cant see anything  on file that makes me think she knew or ought 
reasonably to have  known  there couldve been problems with her pension  arrangements  
before this.
So, Mrs W has made her complaint in time and I can consider it. This rest of my decision will 
focus on the merits of her case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided information and argument about the events complained  about.  
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised. Thats deliberate;  ours is an 
informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mrs Ws case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Insight  for Mrs W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
Ref: DRN84046964-Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise  and control  its 
affairs responsibly and effectively,  with adequate risk management systems
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in Mrs Ws best interests  to make the 
advice suitable.  And in this regard, Id expect  to see a clear and not misleading comparison 
was made  between her old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Ref: DRN84046965Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although  the alert was issued after the advice given to Mrs W, it wasnt new guidance;  it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
did Insight adhere  to the regulatory requirements placed  on it when advising on and making 
arrangements for the switch of Mrs Ws personal  pension?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mrs W in order to understand essential facts  about 
her. In order  to advise  her to switch her personal  pension into the FPT with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate investment in the Cape Verde development, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mrs Ws investment objectives 
(including her attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long she wanted  to 
invest for).
-Mrs W was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
-Mrs W had the necessary experience or knowledge  to understand the risks involved.
My starting point is to make a general  observation  about the paucity of information available  
to Insight at the point  it gave advice to Mrs W. The approach and poor process followed by 
its adviser has impeded it mounting  a credible, reasoned and weighty argument in defence 
of what happened  in this case.
From reading the case file, I cant see that Insight ever put itself into a position where it could  
meet its obligations. For example, the fact-find which  appears  to have been completed on 16 
September 2009 is sparsely populated. Where there are gaps, the following statement is 
typical of what can be found:
Not disclosed
Of the little information  we can glean,  its recorded Mrs W was 42 and married. Shes 
recorded as being a housewife.
Ref: DRN84046966Insight didnt obtain information  about  whether Mrs W had any dependents.  The sections 
about her income,  expenditure,  assets and liabilities  are blank. There  are no details about 
whether she had any insurances or protections. On retirement planning its recorded she 
wanted to stop working when she reached  the age of 75. But theres no information about  
what her capital and income  requirements  might be at that point. Sections about  Mrs Ws 
health and inheritance planning are also incomplete.
I think because the information Insight derived from the fact-find  was seriously  deficient  it 
provided a precarious  base from which to offer advice about the switching of Mrs Ws 
personal pension  fund into a FPT with Rowanmoor to facilitate investment in overseas 
property.
The same problem arises  in relation to details captured  about  Mr W. This is especially 
significant in this case because the pension arrangement recommended was the joint-SIPP 
and so understanding the finances of both him and his wife wouldve been important to the 
utility and operation  of the pension vehicle chosen.
I can see Mrs W was asked about her general  financial objectives.  She was given a number 
of statements and asked  to rank them in terms of priority from 1 (highest) to 5 (lowest).  Her 
highest priority was to maintain  her standard of living in retirement. And the next matter  in 
her list of priorities was investment planning.  In the notes section its recorded  Mrs W wanted 
to fund buying overseas property. 
As Ill conclude, Insight appears  to have focussed on Mrs Ws wants and facilitating  those, at 
the expense of the priorities she indicated  and the needs she had.
Mrs Ws attitude to risk was assessed  as medium to high. The definition indicated  this meant 
she was prepared to invest her capital in more  volatile markets, with the potential for higher 
returns. Theres a significant problem with this exercise conducted by Insight  only the 
summary was completed. The questionnaire,  which wouldve taken her through 14 detailed  
questions where  it wouldve had an opportunity to draw out Mrs Ws real outlook through  
discussion, wasnt completed.
I can see that in the financial planning  report (FPR)  it prepared for Mrs W dated 30 
September 2009, Insight did give her the following  warning:
I have made you aware  that the purchase  of a SIPP and utilising only the investment of a 
commercial property such as your Cape Verde  property will increase the risk level of your 
investment as factors such as the lack of liquidity of the property asset and you have only 
one asset class. You stated this is suitable to fulfil your objective  of purchasing the Cape 
Verde property and are aware  of the associated  risks involved.
Ive thought about this, and the other  warnings Mrs W was given in the FPR. The problem for 
Insight is that it undermines these through the additional commentary it provides in the 
report. For example,  immediately after the warning about the specific risks associated  with 
the Cape Verde proposal it says:
Furthermore, your adviser will have  discussed  your risk profile  in more depth and has 
confirmed that you suit this type of investment.
Ref: DRN84046967This is odd, because Insight knew it hadnt got a proper handle  on Mrs Ws risk appetite  
the exercise it had completed was superficial. It also knew  putting money into overseas 
property was very high risk, so even if I were  to accept the outcome of its assessment  
which I dont  the Cape Verde proposal  was above her risk outlook.  I think it shouldve 
advised accordingly, without equivocation and without seeming to reassure her by referring 
back to what her unregulated, unqualified adviser  is purported to have considered about the 
investment.
Insight says given  the nature of their business experience, Mrs and Mr W wouldve 
understood the issues around development of commercial properties, regardless of whether 
this was in the UK or overseas. While I recognise  the point its making, it doesnt take into 
account the complex nature of the Cape Verde  transaction, the additional risks associated  
with dealing with third parties, in markets theres  no evidence  they had experience of, and 
the fact that the focus shouldve been retirement  planning. So, I dont find its argument  
telling in this case.
Insight did note the Cape Verde proposal would result in the bulk of Mrs Ws funds  being  tied 
up in one asset. But it does nothing to draw this out meaningfully for her. The FCA 
illustration of good practice from 2010  was to allow for perhaps around 5% of someones 
funds to be invested in these sorts of assets  (where they are experienced investors).  The 
proposal on the table consumed 100% of her pension provision - an outcome FCA said was 
bad practice.
 
Im concerned that Mrs Ws capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been considered.  
Although it was very modest, her personal  pension appears to have been  her only retirement 
provision. I cant see, and neither could  Insight, whether she had other  assets to call on. This 
reinforces my concerns  about the assessment of her risk outlook  and the strategy for 
investing her funds.
Further, theres a complete absence of consideration  by Insight of Mrs Ws previous 
knowledge and experience. This is important, not only in terms of the investments she was 
considering with her pension funds, but also in relation to the pension  vehicle to be selected. 
Ill return to this matter later.
In the FPR Insight produced for Mrs W, Insights opening paragraph  said the following:
You were introduced to me from [TRG] with whom  you have purchased a Cape Verde 
commercial property. You have decided  to purchase and fund this through  the 
recommendation of [TRG] via a [FPT]. Both yourself  and your financial adviser  [Mr R] 
have requested my advice and recommendation in only finding the most suitable SIPP 
provider that will enable  you to purchase this property and I can confirm I have not provided 
you with advice or recommendation in relation to the FPT being  the most suitable  vehicle to 
facilitate the property acquisition.
This sets alarm bells ringing for a number of reasons. For example, it is contrary  to what 
Insight actually goes  on to advise:
I have recommended that [your] pensions be transferred, for the following  reasons:
You wish to use your pension fund to purchase an overseas property,  which is something 
that your existing Zurich  contract cannot  facilitate.  In order  to purchase  the property in 
question it is preferably that both of you [Mrs and Mr W] invest  your existing pension 
resources. This can be achieved through a Family Pension Trust contract,
Ref: DRN84046968Its clear Mrs W was referred  to Insight for advice about moving her personal pension  to a 
FPT so she could invest in high risk overseas  property. Insight knew what she was 
contemplating, but says it wasn't responsible for the investment  advice.
I disagree with the argument Insight makes here. The regulatory position  is clear. It had a 
duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mrs W. And to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It couldnt  do this without 
considering the suitability  of the investments it knew were being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mrs W, it wasnt new guidance;  it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
Insight couldnt  ignore  Mrs Ws intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in her circumstances, it should  have said so - rather  than presuming that 
the transfer was necessary for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the 
whole transaction,  not simply limit its advice to choosing  the best SIPP provider.
Mrs W was transferring her pension funds to the FPT for investment in overseas property. 
Theres no duty of care exhibited here by Insight in terms of understanding  her capacity to 
withstand losses. 
Insight couldnt  seek to exclude  or restrict any duty or liability  it had to Mrs W. It had an 
obligation to assess  the suitability of the investment she was considering, and it couldnt 
avoid this by asking Mrs W to sign terms of business  instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation like the FPR.
Insight shouldve provided Mrs W with an explicit recommendation not to proceed  with the 
switch of her pension funds into the Rowanmoor FPT,  the purpose  of which was to invest  all 
her funds into unregulated  overseas property. It failed to do this.
Instead, Insight  made arrangements  for the switch  of Mrs Ws personal  pension plan into the 
FPT. It signed off the applications using its authorisation details. It transmitted the necessary  
applications. In doing so, it led Rowanmoor to believe  Mrs W had been properly advised on 
the transaction.
In doing all this, Insight was aware Mrs W was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mrs W might 
have difficulty getting access to her pension funds.  The investment was specialised,  out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty. And 
theres no evidence  she was a sophisticated  investor.
Ive other  concerns about the transaction Insight recommended and enabled. For example, 
the level of fees and charges Mrs W incurred for her new pension  arrangements were 
considerably higher  compared to her previous  plan.
The suitability report was misleading on costs, implying she paid 3.5%  of the value of her pot 
per year in her Zurich  plan. Actually,  as it knew from the fact-find, the costs were nearer 1%. 
It was actually the new arrangement it recommended that drove up her costs. And a 
significant element  of the cost was driven by the pension vehicle Insight recommended, the 
FPT. It described this pension wrapper in the following terms:
Ref: DRN84046969 The Rowanmoor Pensions  [FPT] is suitable for families or any group of people who wish to 
retain maximum control of their pension arrangements and where other  types of member  
directed pensions are not practical.  The [FPT] allows  flexibility for the members because  
some, or all, of the members are also trustees. The trustees share  responsibility  for ensuring 
the scheme complies with Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC)  guidelines and 
legislation with Rowanmoor Pensions. Trustees responsibilities also include authorising any 
movement of funds  and agreeing scheme  payments.
Each Rowanmoor Pensions [FPT] is established  under its own individual trust and 
registered with HMRC. There are separate arrangements within the trust for each member. 
This is unlike  most SIPPs where there is a single scheme, established under a master  trust 
for all members. The FPT combines the control  members would have in a small employer-
based scheme with the simplicity of a Provider  scheme. Assets within  a [FPT] are held in 
the name of the trustees of the scheme and not controlled by the scheme operator, as is 
usually the case  for a SIPP.  The members  funds may be pooled into common  investment 
funds, making ownership and borrowing,  particularly  for property investment, that much 
simpler.
Ive thought carefully about the FPT and whether it was suitable for Mrs W. Ive concluded 
that it wasnt. I say this because it was a sophisticated arrangement, with a niche target 
group aimed at drawing in the investments of family  members and others. But I cant find in 
the information gathered by Insight about Mrs Ws circumstances and her objectives,  nor 
those of her husband,  a strong rationale  as to why an FPT was specifically appropriate.
I understand the FPT was a relatively new concept.  By definition, it wasnt  tried and tested. I 
think the FPT - which  entailed significant responsibilities and administrative overheads  for 
individual trustees and members  was over engineered for Mrs Ws requirements. One 
result of this was that it drove costs  with an adverse impact  on Mrs Ws fund, in return  for 
benefits which were  very unclear in comparison with cheaper alternatives  which  couldve 
met her objectives.
On the matter of the duty of care Insight owed Mrs W there are several examples where it 
falls short.  For example, it notes Mr R provided  Mrs W with advice about the alternative 
investment she wanted to make. But it wouldve been aware,  or shouldve been, that Mr R 
doesnt appear to have  been a regulated adviser.
Insight says Mr R was responsible for gathering information from Mrs W for many  of the key 
deliverables, such  a detailed fact-find. I dont  think it can rely on this to avoid the 
responsibility it had for getting to grips with the information. It had a duty to do this given the 
importance of the transaction it was about  to undertake  on her behalf, and for which  it was 
charging her a significant fee.
I dont think Insight took enough interest  in the getting to the bottom of Mr Rs role. And I 
cant see its drawn Mrs Ws attention to the significant downside of dealing with unregulated 
individuals. In my view, this shouldve put Insight on alert.  It was even more important that it 
understood her objectives and circumstances properly. Rather it seems to have skirted 
around these matters.
In a recent  submission to this Service, Insight said Mrs W and her husband were  close 
associates of Mr R who was also a TRG agent. For example, Mrs W and Mr R were 
directors of the same  limited company. It says this means whatever it had advised she 
wouldve gone ahead with the investment in Cape  Verde in any case.
Ref: DRN840469610I understand the point Insight is making. Having checked the information available at 
Companies House,  I can see that one of the businesses referred to is Mrs and Mr Ws 
commercial construction  and roofing  firm, which was incorporated in 1999.  They  were  the 
shareholders. Mr R was appointed as a Director  of the firm, but this wasnt  until 2013, 
several years after the Cape Verde investment.
Mrs and Mr Ws representative has provided  a lengthy explanation of the circumstances 
surrounding their connection with Mr R and her father who I understand was minister of a 
local church. While I can see that these individuals were all part of the same congregation 
and at certain times various members  were engaged in joint endeavours related to works in 
their community, Insight  has failed to show how these matters,  which  were  subsequent to 
the events of 2009, demonstrate its more  likely  than not Mrs and Mr W wouldve been 
influenced by Mr R, to such  an extent they wouldve ignored professional advice.
And unfortunately for Insight it doesnt have any paperwork  to support its argument here. It 
didnt advise Mrs and Mr W not to go ahead with the Cape Verde  investment.  And theres no 
insistent client paperwork showing Mrs W wanted to proceed in such  a fashion.
In light of these  facts, and the absence of material evidence of Mr Rs alleged influence  over 
Mrs W, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to conclude anything other than that she wouldve 
followed the advice  of Insight and its recommendations.
Mrs W ended up switching her personal  pension into an FPT on the recommendation of 
Insight. Ive concluded that solution was over engineered for her circumstances and 
objectives. The fees, charges and penalties under the new arrangement were high, and Ive 
not seen any justification of how such a major  increase  in costs which eroded her pension  
fund, together  with the additional associated administrative  overheads,  could be rationally 
justified.
While Insight has maintained its position  that it wasnt responsible  for advising  Mrs and Mr W 
about the Cape Verde  investment, the regulatory position is clear it shouldve  done so. The 
transaction Insight  recommended wasnt a match for Mrs Ws risk appetite,  her capacity  for 
loss or her investment experience.
Ive concluded  the switch  of Mrs Ws pension funds  into the Rowanmoor FPT and the 
overseas investment cant sensibly be regarded as fair to Mrs W. As such, Insight  failed to 
meet the regulatory requirements when  providing her with advice and making the necessary 
arrangements. 
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  Insight  and for it to put things right.
putting things right
Mrs W needs to be returned  to the position she wouldve been in now - or as close  to that as 
reasonably possible   had it not been for the failures  which  I hold Insight responsible  for.
If Insight had done everything it shouldve, on balance  I dont  think  Mrs W wouldve switched 
funds from her Zurich personal pension  into the Rowanmoor FPT and high-risk  overseas 
property investment, and so she wouldnt  have  suffered the uncertainty  and financial loss 
shes now facing.
Ref: DRN840469611In arriving at what I think is fair redress, Ive tried to weigh all these matters. Insight will also 
need to ensure its approach to redress takes into account the linked complaint from Mr W 
and the outcome on that.
So, Insight  Financial Associates Limited must  put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate a notional  loss Mrs W has suffered as a result of making the switch
1.1 Insight should obtain a notional value of Mrs Ws former  pension plan at the date of 
settlement. It should use the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index - prior to 
1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market  Income Total  Return Index - as a benchmark. 
Im satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved  if 
Mrs Ws pension  had remained invested in her previous plan.
1.2 I dont think  Mrs W made any withdrawals from or further  contributions to her FPT. The 
activity Ive seen  on her account  seems to relate largely to fees. After confirming the detailed 
position, the value Insight  obtains, or the calculations Insight makes  should assume any 
adjustments would  still have  occurred and on the same dates.
1.3 The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional  value  of Mrs 
Ws former  personal pension plan and her proportionate share  of the current value of her 
FPT including any investments and cash held (see step 2), will be her basic financial  loss 
that Insight needs to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
2.1 To close  Mrs W and her husbands  FPT and avoid ongoing fees, the investment needs 
to be crystallised. To do this Insight should ask Rowanmoor to determine an amount its 
willing to accept as a commercial value for the investment and Insight can then pay this to 
take ownership of it.
2.2 If Insight  is unwilling  or unable to purchase the investment, the value should  be assumed 
to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Insight has 
compensated Mrs W fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask her to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the FPT may receive from the 
investment. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount she may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums she would be able to 
access from the FPT. Insight will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mrs Ws FPT so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting  from 1 and 2) or pay her an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted  
for tax 
3.1 If compensation is paid into Mrs Ws FPT, payment  should  allow  for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief, so that she is in the same  position as if shed stayed in her 
original personal pension plan.
3.2 If paying compensation into Mrs Ws FPT would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and Insight takes on her investment, then it should  pay 
her compensation as a cash sum. In doing  so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN8404696123.3 The notional  allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Ws actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age. For example, if Mrs W is likely to be a basic  rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mrs W would have been  able to take tax-free cash, the reduction should 
only be applied to 75% of the compensation.
3.4 Insight should also provide details of its calculations to Mrs W in a clear format.
4.FPT fees
4.1 If the investments arent removed from Mrs Ws FPT, and it remains open after 
compensation has been paid, Insight should pay her a proportionate share of an amount 
equivalent to five years of future fees (bearing in mind it has two beneficiaries,  her and her 
husband). This should allow enough  time for the issues with the investments to be dealt with, 
and for them  to be removed from the FPT.
4.2 If, after five years,  Insight wants to keep the FPT open,  and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  FPT 
fees. If Insight fails to pay the FPT fees, Mrs W with her husband should then have the 
option of trying to cancel  the investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5.Trouble and upset
5.1 Mrs W was worried  when she found  out there were problems with her pension 
arrangements. She then had to spend  time trying  to get things sorted. In recognition of this 
Insight should  pay her £200  for trouble and upset its caused.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I require Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  to pay the redress Ive detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8404696