K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds  decision to turn down her 
claim for critical illness  benefit and apply  an exclusion to her term assurance policy.
background
Mrs B applied for term assurance  with critical illness cover over the telephone on 
15 May 2015. During the application she was asked a number of questions about her health, 
including:
Within the last five years have you experienceda  lump, growth or cyst of any kind, or any 
mole or freckle  that has bled, become painful,  changed in colour or increased  in size?
Within the last five years,  other than in respect of the conditions  that have already been  
declared have  youhad or been advised  to have any investigations, scans  or blood  tests?
Mrs B answered no to each of these questions. 
Aviva wrote to Mrs B on 15 May 2015  asking  her to confirm the answers shed given  during  
her telephone application and explained that it may not be able to pay a future claim if the 
answers were incorrect. 
Aviva accepted the policy on standard terms and cover started on 5 June 2015. That day it 
sent her a copy of the policy schedule and again warned her that a claim may not be paid if 
the application questions were answered  incorrectly. 
Mrs B contacted Aviva in May 2018  to make a claim on the policy  as shed sadly  been 
diagnosed with malignant melanoma. She told the claims assessor shed had symptoms  
dating back to 2013 but had only been diagnosed in 2016. Aviva requested medical  
evidence to allow it to assess her claim and also to decide  if she should have told it about 
the symptoms she had in 2013 when she applied for cover in 2015. 
The GP records show that Mrs B had been  referred to a dermatologist  in November 2014 as 
shed noticed  a mole  on her breast  had increased  in size. She was offered an excision 
biopsy, but turned this down and decided to keep a watchful eye for any further changes to 
the mole.  She was due to have a follow up appointment  three  months later, but didnt attend 
the appointment. 
In view of this Aviva declined the claim.  It explained  that had it known about the changes  to 
Mrs Bs mole it would  have applied the following exclusion:
Any critical illness on the life of [Mrs B] will be excluded from the policy if it is caused by or 
results from melanoma or any condition arising from or attributable to treatment for 
melanoma.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and felt Aviva had acted reasonably by declining  
the claim and adding the policy exclusion.  He explained that while he appreciated Mrs B 
didnt think there was anything seriously  wrong  in 2014, she should  reasonably  have known 
she needed to tell Aviva about her mole and referral in response to its clear  questions.  He 
also highlighted that Aviva had given her opportunities to correct her answers  before the 
policy started. 
Ref: DRN83728902Mrs B disagreed with the investigators findings. She said Aviva  had sent details of her policy  
to an old address, and so she hadnt  seen the warning about checking  her answers. The 
investigator looked into this. But he found  that during the application process Aviva had 
asked Mrs B about her current, and future address. He was satisfied that when it wrote to 
her it wrote to the correct address for her at the time. 
As Mrs B remained unhappy the case has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs B as this has been a difficult  time for her. But Id 
like to take some time to explain how Ive reached  my decision.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
was there  a misrepresentation?
Ive spent time listening to the application  call from 15 May 2015 and Im satisfied Avivas 
questions were sufficiently clear to allow Mrs B to answer them  correctly.  
The adviser gave  Mrs B two clear  warnings about the importance of answering questions  truthfully,  
accurately and to the best of her abilities. The adviser also explained that failure  to answer  
questions accurately could invalidate future claims.  These warnings were  repeated  in writing when 
Aviva wrote to her on 15 May and 5 June  2015. So Im satisfied Aviva  made  Mrs B aware of the 
importance of answering questions  correctly.  
I understand Mrs B has said she didnt  receive Avivas first letter, as it was sent to her old address. 
But from what Ive seen  Im satisfied Aviva wrote  to the address it believed Mrs B would be living in 
at the time of writing. And in any event Im satisfied Aviva made reasonable attempts to highlight  
the importance of answering questions correctly both during the application process and 
afterwards. It also gave  Mrs B several opportunities to change  her answers. 
Having carefully considered the available medical evidence,  and the questions  asked,  I think Mrs B 
should reasonably have  told Aviva  shed seen her GP and been referred to a consultant 
dermatologist because  she had a mole that had increased in size. One of the questions  clearly 
asked about changes to moles.  Mrs B could also reasonably have disclosed it in response  to the 
question asking if shed  been referred for investigations. This is because  the referral  to the 
dermatologist was to investigate the cause  of the changes to the mole. He also recommended  a 
follow-up in three months, although  this didnt  take place. 
I know Mrs B has said she felt reassured  following her referral that there was nothing to worry 
about and to just keep  an eye on it. She also said when she didnt receive a letter about a follow  up 
Ref: DRN83728903she thought everything  was ok and forgot about it. While I can understand that Mrs B may not have 
thought the earlier investigations  were anything to worry about, the question didnt ask her to make 
a judgement call on whether  they were of concern or not. It simply asked her for details of any 
changes to moles. 
In view of this I think Aviva was fair to say that Mrs B has misrepresented  her answers when 
applying for cover. 
what would  Aviva have  done differently?
Aviva has treated Mrs Bs misrepresentation  as careless,  which I think is reasonable in the 
circumstances as theres nothing to suggest the misrepresentation  was deliberate or reckless. 
Under CIDRA, when  its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the insurer  
can take whatever  action  it would have taken if the correct answer been given at the point of 
application. Aviva  has shown us that had it known about the changes  to Mrs Bs mole it wouldnt 
have offered cover for any claims relating to melanoma. So, Im satisfied Mrs Bs recent  claim 
wouldnt have been covered by the policy. I also think Aviva was fair to apply the exclusion detailed 
above to the policy, as this should have applied  from the start.  
So having  carefully considered everything, I dont think it was unfair for Aviva  to decline the 
claim or amend the policy as it has.
In light of the above, Im not upholding  this complaint. I know this isnt the outcome Mrs B 
was hoping for. But I hope she understands  the reason why Ive reached this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8372890