K821x#15complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) have declined his claim  for 
escape of water damage, under his buildings insurance policy. 
When I refer to RSA, Im also referring  to any of their appointed representatives or agents.  
background
In July 2018 Mr F discovered  a leak from his shower. He arranged to have this fixed  by a 
local contractor in early  August 2018  and then went away on holiday. 
When Mr F returned  from his holiday part of the ceiling below the shower had collapsed.  He 
contacted his insurance broker, who arranged  for a contractor to visit Mr F. The contractor 
removed the whole  ceiling for safety  reasons. 
A week or so later Mr F reported  the claim to RSA.  RSA appointed a couple of experts to 
assess the damage. As the debris  had been  cleared by the previous contractor, RSAs 
reports were based on the remaining condition of the ceiling and photographic evidence. The 
claim was declined as RSA didnt feel there was any evidence  of an insured event causing 
part of the ceiling to collapse. RSA accepted that Mr F had had a leak behind his shower, but 
they didnt accept the damage to the ceiling was caused by this. 
Mr F complained to our service. Our investigator  didnt  uphold the complaint. She said the 
reports provided by both parties  were conflicting,  but she was more persuaded by those 
provided by RSA. So, she didnt ask RSA to do anything.
As Mr F didnt agree its been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking RSA to 
do anything. Ill explain why.
Mr Fs buildings  insurance policy will cover him if it can be shown that an insured event has 
happened to cause any damage. RSA have told Mr F that they wont be covering his claim 
as the original leak behind the shower  hasnt been  shown to have caused the damage to the 
ceiling. I must decide if I think RSA have acted reasonably in declining Mr Fs claim. In this 
case I think they have.  
It isnt disputed that Mr Fs shower  was leaking.  But I havent seen any evidence  that makes 
me think the escape  of water from the shower probably led to the ceiling below  collapsing.  
The plumber that fixed the original leak has confirmed that he didnt need  to dry the tiles or 
wall behind  the shower. Whilst I accept that water from a leak will travel downwards, the leak 
would have to be substantial or to have been happening for a significant period for it to 
cause the ceiling to collapse. So, I would also expect there to be some water damage or 
staining at the source of the original leak. That hasnt been shown. 
The original  contractors appointed by Mr Fs insurance broker  concluded that it seems that 
the water  had reached the ceiling below  and over a period  of weeks has caused this to 
Ref: DRN80747622weaken and collapse.  They have  also provided  photos of the damaged  ceiling which they 
claim to show  darkened areas that could have  been caused by the leak.  This report  doesnt 
provide a conclusive cause for the ceiling  collapse.  I dont find that report  and photos as 
persuasive as those provided  by RSA.  
RSAs reports and photos show the wooden  battens that were visible after the ceiling had 
been removed  didnt show any signs of water damage. They  were  dry and dusty.  The 
reports also showed that some of the plaster was missing from in between  the wooden  
battens, suggesting general  age deterioration. They concluded that the ceiling had just come 
to the end of its natural life. I dont  think thats unreasonable based  on the reports  and 
photographs available to me.
Mr F and his insurance broker have suggested the battens were dry and dusty because  of 
the hot weather experienced during the summer  of 2018 and because RSA took a while  to 
visit the house. Im not persuaded by this. Even  if the hot weather had dried up any water 
that had leaked onto the wooden battens and ceiling, Id expect the volume of water required 
to make the ceiling collapse  to leave staining even if it had dried  out. There is no water 
staining evidenced in the reports. Because of this Im satisfied that RSA have acted fairly in 
declining Mr Fs claim.
I wont be asking RSA to do anything else about  this.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8074762