K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2004. Mr and Mrs T say Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Intelligent  Finance, 
mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Intelligent Finance had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs T that they had 
a choice about it.
Intelligent Finance has sent us a copy of a letter  confirming the details of Mr and Mrs Ts 
mortgage application. This included a section on PPI saying that they had requested PPI on 
their mortgage. And Mr and Mrs T have signed  the bottom of the letter.
Intelligent Finance has also sent us its record of the application, which shows Mr and Mrs T 
chose to take PPI. And its sent us a copy of a PPI Welcome letter sent to Mr and Mrs T, 
setting out the cost and benefit of the policy.
Based on this, I think Intelligent Finance made it clear to Mr and Mrs T that they had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mr and Mrs T chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Intelligent Finance gave Mr and Mrs T any personalised 
advice about the PPI. So I dont  think it recommended the PPI to them. This means it didnt 
have to check if it was right for them. But it did have to make  sure they got the information  
they needed to decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Intelligent Finance gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, it 
doesnt look like Mrs T was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Mr and Mrs T have  mentioned that Mr T had a severe allergy  at the time.  But, based on what  
theyve said about  it, I dont think this wouldve affected their decision on taking  out the 
policy.
The policy couldve  paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs T have told us they wouldve been  
entitled to full sick pay. And theyve told us they didnt have any savings or other means they 
couldve used to make  their mortgage repayments  if they werent earning. So the PPI would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs T off taking  it out.
Mr and Mrs T have  said that they werent  told that they werent the policy  holders  or that the 
benefit of the policy  would  be paid directly to Intelligent Finance. And that they wouldnt have  
taken the policy if they had been told this.
Ref: DRN86190132Intelligent Finance has sent us a copy of the policy document which sets out the terms of the 
policy. And this says on the first page  that Intelligent Finance is the policyholder and that the 
benefit will be paid directly to the policyholder. Mr and Mrs T have said that they didnt 
receive the policy document at the time of the sale. But Intelligent Finance appears  to have 
been using the correct  address for them. So I think its likely that the policy  document  was 
sent to them.
Its also not unusual  for the benefit of a mortgage PPI policy to be paid directly  to the 
mortgage provider.  So I dont think Intelligent Finance had to specifically highlight this term 
to Mr and Mrs T. And if it was important  to Mr and Mrs T to know where the benefit of the 
policy would be paid,  they could have asked  during  the sale. But theres no suggestion that 
they did.
I also dont think its unreasonable for the benefit  to be paid directly  to Intelligent Finance,  as 
the policy is specifically  to make sure that the mortgage payment is still paid. And paying the 
benefit directly to the mortgage provider ensures this.
Mr and Mrs T have  also said that the benefit  of the policy was more than their mortgage 
payment, but that these additional funds were also paid directly to Intelligent Finance. And 
theyve said that the letter  confirming the details of their application  suggests  that the PPI 
can be used to cover loan and credit  card repayments, as well as mortgage payments.  And 
that this is why they didnt reduce their cover when  their mortgage payments reduced.
But I think the letter is just explaining that PPI policies  are available  with each of those 
products, not that one policy can be used for all of them. And it confirms just below  that 
Mr and Mrs T have  taken  out cover for their mortgage. So I still think  its reasonable for the 
benefit to be paid direct to Intelligent Finance, and then any excess  refunded to 
Mr and Mrs T once  the mortgage payment has been  made.
So, taking all of this into account, I dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold.  Which means 
Intelligent Finance doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Intelligent Finance will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because : 
Intelligent Finance got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about  that. Because  Intelligent 
Finance didnt tell Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, Intelligent Finance has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs T had to withdraw a claim on the policy  in order to make this 
mis-sale complaint. If Mr and Mrs M now want to make a retrospective  claim  on the PPI 
policy, they should contact the insurer directly.
what the business needs  to do
Intelligent Finance has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Intelligent Finance should  also pay back to 
Mr and Mrs T any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Ref: DRN86190133Intelligent Finance should pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra  they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Intelligent 
Finance should  also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8619013