K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2002. Mrs L says Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her PPI. 
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On her behalf, Mrs Ls representative  disagreed  with these findings. It has commented  that 
PPI was not made clear enough  to Mrs L, and that the name used by Halifax for this product 
was quite misleading. The representative has also stated that information  about the cost of 
PPI was not made clear.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Mrs Ls 
comments that she understood  she needed to take out PPI in order  to be given the credit 
card. However, I am mindful that the sale occurred a number of years ago, in my opinion 
making it more difficult to recall in detail.
I also accept that the policy was not called PPI on the application form, and was instead 
named Credit Card Repayments Insurance . However, on balance  I dont consider this 
name was misleading, as Mrs Ls representative  has suggested. The policy did indeed  
provide insurance  to cover the card repayments,  in the event of either  disability or 
unemployment.The credit  card application form required the applicant to tick a box to select  PPI, and 
Mrs L also signed separately by this box. In my view, this indicated  that PPI was not a 
necessity in order to be granted  the credit  card. I also consider the weight of evidence  
indicates on balance  that Mrs L agreed to take PPI out.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L so it had to check  that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
 Taking into account Mrs Ls existing means to meet the card repayments if she wasnt  
working, I also consider  that she would have found the cover  useful.  
 Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been,  and I acknowledge the representatives comment  that the cost was 
not made sufficiently  clear. However  Mrs L chose  to take PPI out - so it looks  like she 
wanted this type of cover.  It also looks like it was affordable.  On balance I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put Mrs L off taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN85812512 My conclusion  is that the policy was not mis-sold to Mrs L.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mrs L paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs L back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Mrs L now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8581251