K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen  
Finance (VWFS) wont give her a refund, even though she didnt  drive  the amount of miles 
allowed under  her hire agreement.
Mrs Ls husband brings the complaint  on her behalf.
background
Mrs L was supplied a car under a hire agreement with VWFS in April 2016. The contractual 
mileage allowance  was 25,000 per year but at the end of the three  year agreement Mrs L 
had driven less than 55,000 miles.
Two months  before the end of the agreement Mrs Ls husband contacted  VWFS to advise 
that due to a change  in Mrs Ls job, the car would be returned with around 20,000  under  the 
mileage allowance  and enquired about getting  a refund for the unused mileage. VWFS said 
it didnt offer refunds for unused mileage.
Mrs L complained. In response VWFS said it wasnt required to refund the mileage 
difference. It also explained  that contractual mileage can be amended  at any time during  the 
term of the agreement, but not during  the first or the last six months of the agreement. 
VWFS incorrectly said that it had regularly sent Mrs L letters asking for mileage updates.   
Unhappy with the response Mrs L complained  to our service. She wants  VWFS  to refund her 
for the underutilised mileage. 
VWFS clarified that it didnt send any letters to Mrs L to request her updated mileage, as it 
did not offer a managed  service on this account. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  VWFS  had done  anything 
wrong as the hire agreement didnt contain  any provision about refunding unused mileage.
Mrs L didnt agree, so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  the 
complaint and Ill explain my reasons below;
At the end of the agreement Mrs L had driven around 20,000 miles less than the total 
mileage allowance. She said that VWFS should  recognise this by refunding the unused 
mileage in the same way it would have applied charges, if she had exceeded the mileage 
allowance. Mrs L says that another business had previously refunded her for unused 
mileage; she thinks VWFS practice  is unfair  to customers and would like this service  to do 
something about this.
I think it might be helpful for me to clarify at the outset that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service provides informal  dispute resolution.  We are not the regulator  and as such we do not 
have the power  to tell VWFS how to run its business  on a day to day basis.  My role is to 
Ref: DRN86281892consider the circumstances  of Mrs Ls individual complaint and decide  what, if anything  
VWFS has done wrong and consider  if anything needs to be done to put things right. 
Whilst I can understand Mrs Ls point of view, she entered into a hire agreement  with VWFS 
and in doing so she agreed  to its terms and conditions. The agreed total mileage allowance 
under the agreement is 75,000 miles and the agreement clearly sets out excess  charges for 
going over the mileage  allowance. There is no mention made  of any refund in the event of 
the full allowance not being used. 
I appreciate that Mrs L has previously  received  a refund for unused  mileage from another  
business and she feels it is unfair  that VWFS doesnt offer this to its customers. But I have to 
look at what Mrs L agreed  to under her agreement with VWFS. As there is no provision  for a 
refund for unused  mileage, I have no grounds  to tell VWFS to refund her for the unused 
mileage.
I can see that VWFS sent Mrs L a welcome  letter in April 2016,  which  explains that 
amendments can be made to the mileage allowance.  VWFS  has explained that it can amend 
the mileage allowance anytime  during  the term of the agreement,  except during the first and 
last six months of the agreement.
Its unfortunate that Mrs L didnt tell VWFS  earlier  about her reduced mileage. I think  VWFS  
would have adjusted  the contractual mileage if shed done this sooner. Mrs Ls husband 
contacted VWFS during the last two months  of the agreement,  which was too late.
Mrs L says that VWFS  gives a lot of information about what  will happen if the mileage 
allowance is exceeded  in its paperwork, but doesnt give information  about reducing the 
mileage allowance. VWFS says that it highlights the charges  for exceeding  the mileage 
allowance because this clause has a negative impact on the customer; so it is under a duty 
to ensure that it brings this to the customers attention.
Mrs L says that VWFS  should have been  aware that the mileage allowance  would be 
underutilised from the service history. VWFS has explained that it doesnt  offer a managed  
service on this type of account and relies on its customers to keep them updated  about  any 
changes to the mileage.
Mrs L also complains about  the level of customer service her husband received, when he 
phoned VWFS on 25 January 2019. Im unable to consider the level of service  Mr L 
received. This is because  as the customer of VWFS Mrs L is the eligible complainant not Mr 
L.
Taking everything into account,  Im not satisfied that VWFS has made a mistake  or treated 
Mrs L unfairly. So for the reasons  Ive explained,  Im unable  to uphold this complaint. I 
realise Mrs L is likely to feel let down by my decision, but this is the final stage of our process 
and we are unable to consider this further.  Mrs L isnt obliged to accept my decision,  in 
which case it remains open for her to pursue  the matter by other means if she wishes  to. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Ref: DRN86281893Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8628189