K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about Niche Independent Financial Advisers  Limited  (Niche  IFA) 
saying they advised him to take a pension with very high costs  when he should have had a 
lower cost solution. Mr D also says that Niche IFA delayed acting on his instructions which 
caused him to lose £2,000.
background 
Mr D had been a client of Niche IFA since 2012.  Mr D had several pension plans with the 
same provider valued at around £45,000 which, on advice from Niche  IFA, he consolidated 
into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). Mr D and Niche IFA agreed an ongoing  advice 
service for which Mr D was paying  1% per year.
No review meetings  took place until October  2014 when Mr D was advised to transfer the 
investments in his SIPP to a new discretionary fund manager (DFM). The new DFM had 
higher charges at 0.95% than the previous  investments  and also had the effect of increasing  
the underlying  SIPP  fees from 0.25% to 0.55%. No further review  meetings took place and 
Niche IFA continued to charge  1% per year for ongoing advice until 2018 when Mr D made 
his complaint.
An adjudicator looked at the case at this service  and determined that:
The advice in 2012 was reasonable. 
Niche IFA wrote to Mr D to invite him in for reviews in 2012 and 2013  but these offers 
werent accepted.
The advice in 2014 wasnt fair because  it had the effect of increasing Mr Ds pension 
charges. 
Although Mr D did sign an acknowledgement accepting the charges, a suitability 
report wasnt produced  to allow him to make an informed decision. And the move to a 
DFM had the effect of increasing his SIPP charges from 0.25% to 0.55% and this 
wasnt disclosed.
Niche IFA continued to charge 1% per year for ongoing advice for services such  as 
rebalancing which the DFM would now do, so Mr D was paying  for the some of the 
same services  twice. 
With all this in mind, the adjudicator upheld Mr Ds complaint and recommended  that an 
index comparison be made from 2014  to when  Mr D withdrew his funds to see if he would 
have been better off with a lower cost solution than the DFM  and SIPP that Niche IFA 
recommended. Niche  IFA accepted this as a fair outcome and offered to redress Mr D on the 
basis the adjudicator  had recommended.  
Mr D wasnt happy with that outcome. He considered that the index the adjudicator  
recommended, the FTSE UK Private Investors  Balanced Total Return Index,  was too low 
risk and that he was more  adventurous than that. Mr D also felt that Niche IFA had delayed 
acting on his instructions  to sell his investment  in 2018 and this had cost him £2,000. Mr D 
also wanted the adjudicator to say how much  compensation  he would be paid. 
The adjudicator said the delay had been  investigated and there was no evidence Niche IFA 
had caused Mr D a loss, as the withdrawal was requested  the next day by Niche  IFA, though 
it took several weeks to process. The loss was therefore due to market movements and not 
Niche IFA. 
Ref: DRN81858822The adjudicator also didnt agree that a higher risk index  should be used to calculate 
redress, as Mr Ds circumstances in 2014 meant  that a high risk investment wouldnt have 
been appropriate. The adjudicator explained that we only usually set out the method of 
redress, rather than calculate it, and that it was possible no compensation would be paid if 
the calculation  showed Mr D wouldnt have been  any better  off in a lower cost solution.      
Mr D said the adjudicator should ask Niche IFA to refund the fees hed been  charged since   
2014. The adjudicator didnt agree. He explained  this service looks to put consumers back  
into the position theyd have been  in, had the error  not occurred. Mr D had had the benefit of 
being invested in the DFM  and had seen his pension value increase from around £50,000 in 
2014 to some £68,000 in 2018.  He wouldnt  have  been able to have the benefit of the DFM 
without paying  its charges  and also paying for the SIPP.  Refunding those charges would put 
Mr D in a better position than, in reality, hed ever have been in.   
Mr D said he didnt want the investment or SIPP charges refunded  but the ongoing advice  
charges because the adjudicator had said it was unfair that Niche IFA had charged  them.  
The adjudicator explained that the index he was recommending  had no charges at all. With 
regards to Niche IFAs charges, the adjudicator said it would have  been  appropriate for 
Niche IFA to charge reduced fees as they would still supply some services, for example 
financial advice.
Mr D remained  dissatisfied so the case has been  referred to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the views 
expressed by the adjudicator and the reasons he gave. I dont have much to add. 
I think the recommendation in 2012 for a SIPP would normally be questionable, given the 
small fund size and that a more complex  pension  arrangement, such as a SIPP,  might be 
disproportionately expensive and the fund could be eroded by unnecessary higher charges. 
But here, as the adjudicator noted, the SIPP was relatively low charging so I dont think it 
was unsuitable  from a charges perspective. And Mr D did want to consolidate his pension 
plans so I think, on balance, the SIPP wasnt unsuitable. 
Mr D was paying for on going advice. He didnt have any reviews in 2012 and 2013. And the 
2014 review didnt take place until October  2014.  But Niche IFA did offer reviews, including  
writing to Mr D in January  2014. It seems Mr D didnt respond. In the circumstances I dont 
see that it was Niche  IFAs fault that Mr Ds SIPP  wasnt  reviewed earlier.   
The changes made in 2014  resulted in substantially  increased charges for Mr D. I agree with 
the adjudicator  those  higher charges werent justified. Theres no suitability report setting out 
why the changes were  recommended.  And not all of the charges were  made  clear.  
I dont think Mr D is unhappy with the outcome itself  that his complaint should be upheld in 
respect of what happened  in 2014.  But he isnt satisfied with the redress suggested by the 
adjudicator. 
As the adjudicator has explained, we aim to put the investor back in the position hed have 
been in had the error not been made (or had unsuitable advice not been  given).  So well 
Ref: DRN81858823compare the actual value of the investment with what it would have been  worth,  had suitable 
advice been given. 
Often we wont know  exactly  what an investor  might  have  done instead. And, even if we 
think the investor wouldnt have made any changes to his investments, calculating  redress  
on that basis, where several different funds may be involved, can be complex. So well often  
suggest an index  is used as a benchmark  to reflect what the investor  might  reasonably  have 
made (or lost) if he hadnt been given unsuitable  advice.  It may be a broad brush  approach 
but we consider its usually a fair indication of whether any financial loss has been suffered. 
As to the index  suggested by the adjudicator, I note the attitude  to risk questionnaire which  
Mr D completed  on 23 October 2014 records he wanted to take an aggressive approach to 
his pension investment.  But, in answer  to the question as to how much  he could stand to 
lose without having  a significant  impact  of his future standard  of living,  he said he could only 
tolerate small or medium losses.  That suggests he didnt have the capacity for loss that 
could result from a high risk investment strategy. I dont think  that an aggressive or higher 
risk approach should have been adopted  without further discussion as to whether Mr D had 
the capacity for loss that could result. I think the index suggested is reasonable. 
As the adjudicator has pointed out, the benchmark index return  isnt adjusted for charges. I 
accept Mr D has paid charges that he wouldnt  otherwise  have paid  for the DFM and the 
higher SIPP  charges as well as to Niche IFA for services that it was no longer providing. But 
if the actual value is still higher than the benchmark,  he wont  have  suffered a financial loss, 
even though hes paid more in charges  than he would otherwise have done and despite 
having been given unsuitable advice. 
We usually set out compensation as a formula rather than an actual amount. It will be for 
Niche IFA to calculate  the compensation in line with what weve  set out. Details of the 
calculation can be provided  to the consumer  and if there are any queries these can be raised 
with the business. I can understand why Mr D might  prefer  to see any compensation 
quantified but we generally leave it to the business  to do that, although we may able to assist 
if theres a dispute  about the calculation.  
Sometimes the calculation may show theres  no loss. If, despite the unsuitable advice, the 
consumer hasnt lost out financially, then no compensation  will be payable, aside from any 
distress and inconvenience award. The adjudicator suggested £100 for distress and 
inconvenience which I think  is fair and reasonable.  
I agree  that the disinvestment was actioned promptly  the next day  by Niche IFA. There 
was no delay on Niche IFAs part and so it isnt responsible for any loss sustained by Mr D 
due to market movements. 
I think the redress suggested by the adjudicator was fair and reasonable so Ive adopted it. 
To put matters right for Mr D, Niche IFA must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ds SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, theres a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Pay any additional  interest. 
Ref: DRN81858824If theres a loss, it should  be paid into Mr Ds pension  plan, to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow  for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  It shouldnt be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it cant be paid into the pension plan, it should  be paid direct to Mr D. But had it 
been possible to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable income. The 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using Mr Ds 
actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example,  if 
hes likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if he would have been able to 
take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Mr D £100 for the disruption  to his retirement planning.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Niche  IFA considers it is required 
by HMRC to deduct income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr D how much has 
been taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  
a return using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in 
the calculation  from that point on. If there is a large  number of regular  payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Niche IFA total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  a slightly higher  than 
average amount  of investment  risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Balanced total return  index is made  up of a 
range of indices  with different asset  classes, mainly UK and international 
equities and also some government and corporate  bonds. Its a fair measure 
for someone who was prepared to take slightly higher  than average  risk to get 
a higher return.
Ref: DRN81858825my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint  to the extent Ive indicated. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8185882