K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender)  gave him loans  that he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr C took out two loans  with Mr Lender   the first in September 2014,  and the second in 
April 2015. Both loans were for £750, and both were due to be repaid over six monthly 
instalments.
Mr C says the loans  were unaffordable for him, as he was addicted to gambling. He believes 
that if Mr Lender had carried out adequate  checks,  it would have  realised that his debt was 
increasing, with other short-term loans, credit card debt and overdrafts. So he believes it 
should have realised that he couldnt  afford the loans.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  In summary, he 
didnt think Mr Lender had carried out detailed enough checks before agreeing to the loans. 
But he thought  that even  if it had carried out proportionate checks,  there wouldnt have been 
anything to indicate that Mr C couldnt  afford  the loans. So he didnt think  it had been  
unreasonable to agree  to them. 
Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to Mr Lender on 20 March 2019. I summarise my findings:
Mr Lender  was required  to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Mr C could afford to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr C was borrowing, and his lending  history,  
but there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr Lenders  told us about the checks it did before agreeing  to lend to Mr C. On both 
occasions, it carried out a credit  check. And it asked  Mr C for details of his regular 
monthly income and expenditure.  Although I hadnt seen the full results of the credit 
checks, Mr Lenders  told us that they didnt show any adverse information such  as 
accounts that had entered a defaulting  or delinquent status within  the last three years or 
evidence of any IVAs  or Bankruptcy. And I also wasnt aware of any adverse information  
of this nature that would have been  on Mr Cs credit file at the time of the loans.
When he applied for loan 1, Mr C told Mr Lender that his monthly take-home pay was 
£1,512. And he said his regular  monthly  outgoings came to £254. The highest repayment 
due on loan 1 was £387.50. It was true that this was just over a quarter of Mr Cs 
declared monthly income. But Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information  Mr C 
provided, in the absence  of anything to suggest that it might be unreliable.  And on the 
basis of that information, it would have  looked as if hed be able to afford the repayments  
relatively comfortably. So I didnt think it was unreasonable  to make the loan without 
carrying out more  detailed affordability  checks.
Ref: DRN88129142When Mr C applied for the second  loan, he told Mr Lender  that his monthly  take-home  
pay was £1,510, and his regular  monthly  outgoings were  now £500. The highest 
repayment due on the loan was £293. It was true that Mr C applied  for loan 2 just after 
he finished repaying loan 1. And based on the information he gave Mr Lender,  his 
regular monthly expenditure had increased.  But it would still have looked as if hed have  
enough money to make his monthly  loan repayments, with enough left over to meet  
other one-off  expenses. And Mr C had only had one previous loan with Mr Lender, which 
hed repaid on time. So taking everything  into account, I didnt think Mr Lender was at 
fault in agreeing to the loan without carrying out more in-depth checks.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Lender should  have asked Mr C specifically about any 
other short-term loans he had outstanding when he applied for the loans. It may be that if 
Mr Lender had carried out more detailed checks,  it would  have discovered  that Mr C 
wasnt, in fact, in a position  to take on more  borrowing. And I accepted what Mr Cs said 
about having taken out a two short-term loans totalling £900  in the couple of weeks 
before loan 1. But he didnt tell Mr Lender  about those, or about his other debts at the 
time. And for the reasons Id set out, I thought that the checks  that Mr Lender carried out 
were sufficient  in the circumstances. They  didnt  show that Mr C already had a significant 
amount outstanding in other  short-term  loans. So I didnt think that Mr Lender was at 
fault for not taking account of those loans in its affordability assessment.
I was sorry  to disappoint Mr C. I realised that he was, in fact, struggling  financially when  
he took out the loans with Mr Lender. But I was satisfied that the checks that Mr Lender 
carried out were proportionate. And I didnt think that based on the information it had, 
Mr Lender was unreasonable  to agree to the loans. So I couldnt fairly uphold  the 
complaint.
further submissions
Mr Lender says it has nothing further to add. But Mr C isnt happy with my provisional 
decision. He says, in summary:
He can understand  why I reached  my decision  on loan 1, but he totally  disagrees with 
my decision  on loan 2.
When it asked him for details of his monthly outgoings, Mr Lender  didnt make it clear 
that he needed to include any payday loans, credit card commitments or loan 
commitments.
His monthly outgoings were far higher than the £500 that he included  in his application 
for loan 2. The £500 was only for his rent and day-to-day essentials.
If Mr Lender had looked at his credit report  when  he applied  for loan 2, it would have 
seen that he had six other short-term loans outstanding, in addition  to making payments 
to his overdraft  and a personal loan. Repayments on those combined came to well over 
£1,000. So his monthly commitments  exceeded  his income.
His credit report would have highlighted that his difficulties had worsened significantly 
since his first loan.  And the fact that he applied for loan 2 straight after repaying his first 
loan  and that it meant he was making monthly repayments to Mr Lender for 12 
consecutive months - should  have alerted Mr Lender to the fact that he was dependant  
on short-term  loans.
Ref: DRN88129143my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  the further points that 
Mr C has made to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory  rules and good industry practice  
at the time the loans were  offered.  Having  done  so, Im not convinced  that theres  any good 
reason to depart from the findings I reached  in my provisional decision.
In its final response to Mr C, Mr Lender listed the categories of expenditure it had asked 
about when he applied for loan 2, and the responses he gave. These  included  Other 
Loans, which  Mr C listed as £150,  and Other  regular  outgoings,  which he listed as £145. 
So Mr C was given the opportunity to tell Mr Lender  about his existing loan and credit 
commitments. And I cant reasonably hold Mr Lender responsible if he didnt include them all 
in the figures he provided in his application. 
Mr Lender was entitled to rely on the information  Mr C provided. And I remain  of the view 
that based on the information it had, and Mr Cs borrowing history, there  was nothing to 
indicate that Mr C was likely to struggle to repay the loans sustainably.  So I dont think 
Mr Lender was at fault in not asking Mr C specifically about any other  short-term  loans he 
had outstanding. 
This leads  on to the other main  point that Mr C has made in response to my provisional 
decision. As I said, I havent seen the full results of the credit checks Mr Lender carried out. 
But Ive seen a summary,  from which Im satisfied that the credit check  didnt show  any 
accounts that had been  recorded as defaulted  or delinquent within  the previous three years. 
Nor did it show any IVA or bankruptcy.
In his response to my provisional decision,  Mr Cs referred to various loans and credit 
commitments which he believes  Mr Lender  would  have seen if it had looked at his credit file 
when he applied for loan 2. But some  of them appear to have been repaid before Mr C 
applied for loan 2. Whats  more, the information  a consumer sees when they request a copy 
of their credit file can be very different to that which is shown when a lender  carries out a 
credit check.  The lender  might only see a small portion  of the credit file, or some  data might 
be missing, anonymised, or not up to date. The summary of the credit check  results that 
Mr Lenders provided doesnt  contain  anything which I think  should have caused it concern  
about Mr Cs ability to repay the loan.
I realise that Mr C will be disappointed. As I said in my provisional decision, I can see that he 
was, in fact, struggling  financially when he applied  for the loans. But taking  everything  into 
account, and for the reasons Ive explained,  my view remains  that it Mr Lender didnt do 
anything wrong  by agreeing to make the loans to Mr C.
Ref: DRN88129144my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812914