K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999 by post.  Miss M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Miss M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding the policy to her card. Barclays has sent us a copy  of the paperwork available from 
the time.  Miss Ms credit  card application form had a separate  section for PPI with options  to 
select either yes to take the policy, or no to decline  it. The option to take the policy has 
been selected, and the application form has been  signed in agreement  with the selections 
that have been made.  So I think Barclays made  it clear that Miss M didnt  have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she may not 
remember this.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had of 
making her repayments, which included some sick pay. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Miss Ms sick pay, and for longer.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell 
Miss M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - including  that some of the compensation she 
received has been paid to a third party she went through to make  the complaint, and that 
had Barclays not treated  her unfairly  from the outset she wouldnt have incurred this cost. 
Ref: DRN84409132But Miss M could have complained directly to Barclays and avoided this cost.  So this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss M any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8440913