K822xcomplaint
Ms J complains that Scottish  Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly)  
delayed the transfer of her late partner's annuity  to another  provider.  As a result,  she 
has suffered a financial loss.
background
I set out the background  to Ms Js complaint in my provisional decision.  In it, I also explained  
why I was intending to uphold Ms Js complaint in part. Ill summarise what  I said about  these 
points in my provisional  decision, so that the relevant information is in this one document.
Ms J brings  this complaint on behalf of her late partner, Mr J. Mr J's daughter,  a co-
executor  of his estate,  supports her in her complaint.
The late Mr J held a flexible income  annuity  with Scottish Friendly.  The policy offered a 
guaranteed period, which was due to end in September 2017.  In May 2017,  he 
completed an Enhanced Annuity Quotation  Form.  In it, he gave personal medical 
information including a recent diagnosis  of cancer. Mr J decided  to look into transferring 
his annuity to a provider  who may be able to offer a new guaranteed period.
Following this information Scottish Friendly calculated and provided a transfer value on 
24 May 2017. It also provided a Transfer Request Form, if Mr J wanted to go ahead with 
the proposed transfer and a Receiving Provider Declaration Form, which  the new annuity  
provider would need to complete  and return.
Scottish Friendly didn't receive a completed transfer form until November 2017.  But, 
in a letter dated 25 October, it wrongly stated it hadn't received the quotation  form. It 
has since  apologised for this error. It confirmed  it received  all the required  
documentation on 3 November 2017.  But, it identified an anomaly in the covering 
letter sent by the receiving  annuity  provider. It referred to an Open Market  Option, 
which this transfer was not. Scottish  Friendly deemed it necessary to gain explicit 
confirmation from the receiving provider that it would treat the transfer  payment as an 
annuity-to-annuity transfer.
Scottish Friendly emailed  the receiving provider on 8 November 2017  to 
request  confirmation that:
The receiving provider must  be willing to accept the transfer  value to 
purchase a lifetime annuity
By transferring  the client would lose the minimum income guarantee (MIG) 
held under the flexible income annuity (FIA).  The MIG relating to the non-
protected rights  portion of this annuity  is £3,845.67  gross per annum.
On 15 November 2017, the receiving provider responded and confirmed it was 
willing to accept the transfer  on these  terms. Scottish Friendly processed the 
transfer and the receiving provider received the funds, of £123,857.49, on 30 
November 2017.
In accordance with the relevant regulations relating to the transfer  of an annuity from 
one insurance  company to another, the policy start date must be the continuing  date 
Ref: DRN84846812of the annuity payment,  the 17th of each month.  The start date was then fixed  at 17th 
December 2017.
Sadly, Mr J died on 14 December 2017.  The receiving provider couldn't start the policy  
and so returned the funds to Scottish  Friendly. As the flexible income annuity 
guarantee period  ended  on 17 September 2017, no further payments were due and 
the annuity was closed.
Ms J complained to Scottish  Friendly. She felt it had unduly delayed the process and if 
the transfer had been carried out earlier, she would have benefitted from the terms the 
receiving  provider  would have offered and as a result, she has suffered a financial loss.
An investigator looked into things  for Ms J. He agreed Scottish Friendly  had made an 
administrative error in requesting the quotation  form in October. But, he noted  that 
although  an error occurred Scottish Friendly hadn't received the transfer form or the 
receiving provider  declaration form and so the transfer couldn't  have been carried out at 
that time. He agreed  the forms were received on 3 November 2017  but there  was an 
anomaly on the covering  letter  regarding an open  market option that was not applicable  
to this transfer  and so he reviewed the correspondence  between  Scottish Friendly and 
the receiving  provider.
Scottish Friendly sent an email  for clarification  on 8 November 2017 and the receiving  
provider responded on 15 November 2017.  Scottish Friendly  then had 5 working  days 
to complete  the transfer. They have acknowledged  they failed to meet  this and 
transferred the payment  on 30 November 2017. The investigator  concluded that 
although a delay had occurred this particular policy had a fixed and continuous 
payment date of 17th  of the month. This meant  the delay didn't practically influence  the 
transfer, as the next payment would have  been  due on 17 December from the receiving 
provider. It had received the funds and was set up ready  to commence, but Mr J sadly 
passed away before it could start the policy and it had no alternative but to return  the 
funds to Scottish Friendly.
During this investigation, Scottish Friendly also reviewed the whole process  and 
brought to the investigators attention another error.  It said it hadn't  identified Mr J's 
health position  at the time of the application.  Had it done  so, it wouldn't have been 
prepared to offer any transfer value at all given  Mr J's advanced stage of illness.
Ms J also raised  the cost of advice the late Mr J was due to pay to his independent  
advisor. She provided two invoices, the first for the professional fee for the transfer 
advice of £750  and the second of £2291.01 for the professional  fee, which was clawed 
back from the advisor following the cancellation of the transfer itself.
Scottish Friendly accepted they hadn't provided  the late Mr J with the service they 
would  have  liked to. They acknowledged  their errors, whilst not affecting  the transfer  
itself, had caused distress. It offered Ms J £1000, in recognition of this and agreed  to 
pay the £750  professional fee to the advisor.  It didn't agree to pay the professional fee 
in respect  of the transfer itself as Mr J tragically passed away  before the policy  could 
commence resulting in the transfer  payment being returned.
Our investigator didn't find Scottish Friendly had caused a delay, which prevented the 
transfer  proceeding before 17 November  2017.  He did find Ms J had suffered a loss of 
Ref: DRN84846813expectation and he concluded the offer from Scottish Friendly  to be fair and reasonable  
not withstanding  he acknowledged  this didn't represent the benefit  Ms J would have 
received  had the transfer gone  ahead.
Ms J didn't agree. She said the receiving provider confirmed  all the relevant 
documentation  was sent on 28 September 2017.  She also feels  the decision by Scottish  
Friendly to retrospectively change the transfer  value after the fact to be wholly unfair. 
She asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings,  I considered  all the available  evidence  and arguments to 
decide what's fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.  I also took into 
account the law, any relevant regulatory  rules and good industry practice at the time.
I said where the information I have is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory,  as some of it 
is here I have  to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I 
think is more  likely to have happened given  the information available.
I explained Id read and considered the whole  file, but I concentrated my comments on 
what I think  is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point it's not because 
I've failed to take it on board and think about  it but because I don't  think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach  what I think  is the right outcome.
I thanked Ms J and Mrs C for their patience whilst  I have reviewed all the information  
afresh in their complaint. I appreciate this has been a very difficult  time and trying  to 
resolve this matter has been lengthy. By way of explanation, there  are a number of 
regulatory rules, which  apply to annuity transfers  from one provider to another. There 
are also two providers involved,  both with detailed terms and with conditions  of each 
annuity to consider  and I would like to assure  them I have diligently considered  all the 
information  available.
Firstly, I looked  at the timeline of events and considered both the actions taken and 
what  was required in order  to complete an annuity-to-annuity  transfer. I can see the late 
Mr J started  this process, after what must have been a devastating diagnosis with the 
full intention  of trying to provide  an income for his partner, Ms J. There  doesn't seem  to 
be any dispute an initial approach was made to Scottish Friendly in May 2017 and it 
issued the relevant documentation. I can see the enhanced annuity quotation  form was 
completed and signed by the late Mr J and Ms J on 11 May 2017.
In order to proceed with the transfer, Scottish  Friendly required the signed transfer 
form and the receiving  providers' declaration  form.
In a letter dated  25 October  2017, Scottish Friendly wrote to Mr J to advise him it 
had received  a letter from the new annuity  provider  and wrongly said it needed a 
completed  quotation form.  It has since acknowledged  this was an error it became 
aware of on 30 October 2017. But, it still required the completed transfer forms in 
order to proceed.
On 2 November  2017, the receiving annuity  provider wrote to Scottish Friendly and 
enclosed  all the necessary documentation  including the completed transfer  forms 
provided by Mr J's independent  adviser.  I have looked  carefully at this letter. It says:
Ref: DRN84846814" ...the financial intermediary has sent our Transfer  and Open Market Option Form to 
you under separate  cover.  We would be grateful if you could complete this form and 
return it with the payment ..."
It goes  on to say:
..Should you have any outstanding requirements,   such as client  Identification     
or     discharge      form(s)  which require completion  by the client  in the first 
instance please can you contact the clients intermediary..       
For details  of our scheme  approval. please see our Transfer  and Oper1Market 
Option Form.
Please note that the current rate guarantee for this client will expire on 10 
November 2017 after which  our rates may change.
If you are sending  us an Open Market Option, please  ensure  that you 
provide  us with the Lifetime Allowance  percentage within  3 months  of 
sending us the funds. Please note that if we have not received  this 
information  within  3 months, it may result in the client's  payments being 
suspended.
Where  a   full   transfer     of   GMP  benefits      is   received,    Just 
Retirement   are unable    to calculate    the Cash   Equivalent  Transfer  Value  
(CETV)  in respect of GMP  and  as such  you  must  establish that the 
transfer  value  is at least equal to the CETV as required by Regulation 5 of  
the  Contracting-  out  (Transfer and  Transfer  Payment)  Regulations 1996..
Scottish Friendly confirmed it received the documentation on 3 November 2017.  It 
noticed the reference to the Open Market Option  but as this was an annuity-to annuity 
transfer, the Open Market Option didn't apply to this transfer. It said it needed  explicit  
consent that the receiving  provider would be prepared to accept the transfer  on this 
basis and so it emailed  them on 8 November to request confirmation.
So, I said what I have  to consider is. was that request reasonable given the nature 
of the transfer or as Ms J feels  an unnecessary delay?
I've looked at the regulatory requirements carefully. There  a number that apply to the
transfer of an annuity from one insurance  company to another  they include,  but aren't 
limited  to:
Paragraph 3(28) to (20) Schedule 28 Finance Act 2004
Paragraph 13(3) Schedule 10 Finance Act 2005
Regulation 6 The Pensions (Transfers of Sums  and Assets) Regulations 2006  - Sl 
2006/499
The above-mentioned  regulations permit an insurance company to transfer to another  
insurance company sums or assets  relating to their liability  under an annuity contract. 
The relevant regulation requires the new annuity  to be treated as if it were the original 
annuity  prescribed purposes of the pension's tax rules. Otherwise, the registered 
Ref: DRN84846815pension scheme  under  which  sums and assets were used to buy the original annuity is 
treated as making  an unauthorised member  payment. The amount of the unauthorised 
payment is equal to the total amount  of sums  and the market  value of the assets 
transferred to the new annuity  provider.
In all other respects, the new annuity  is treated  as exactly that so the annuity terms 
can be reshaped, for example, as in this case to include provision for a further 
guaranteed period  (whether or not the original annuity made such  provision) .
There is no obligation  requiring an insurance company to either make or accept a 
transfer of an annuity liability. It is not something the member can instigate  without the 
agreement of the insurance  company concerned.  There would also need to be 
agreement between the two insurance  companies on the value of the annuity business  in 
question based  on an analysis  of the policy terms and conditions.
In essence, the transfer of an annuity  from one insurance company to another  doesn't  
allow  for an open market option to be considered, and failure to adhere to the 
regulatory  requirements could result in the transfer being treated as an unauthorised 
member payment.
The receiving provider has confirmed  it was aware  of Mr J's health position and 
happy to accept the transfer of his annuity from Scottish Friendly.
I said I'm satisfied  from what  I've seen that Scottish Friendly acted reasonably in 
confirming the receiving provider was aware of the nature of the transfer  and was 
receiving it on that basis.  It was timely in emailing them and specific in what information  
it required.
I can also see the receiving provider responded to that email on 15 November 
2017  confirming  it was aware of Mr J's health  position and happy  to accept the 
transfer of his annuity from Scottish Friendly.
Scottish Friendly should, according  to its own service level agreements, have completed 
the transfer within 5 working days,  by 22 November. It has acknowledged  it didn't and 
actually completed  the transfer on 30 November.
Regulation 6 The Pensions (Transfers of Sums  and Assets) Regulations 2006 is relevant 
to the transfer of assets, as I referred  to earlier. In summary, this requires the annuity 
payments  to be continuous,  that is to say, paid on the same date of the month  as it was 
originally set up. In Mr J's case,  this was the 17thh  of the month.
I said there's no dispute that a delay occurred here, but the issue to consider is if this 
delay  prevented the transfer  from going ahead before  17 November. This is because  
had the transfer  completed  before this date, it would  have been  in payment with the 
new provision  with the receiving provider. In practical terms, this would mean payments 
would continue for the duration of the guaranteed  period, even if Mr J died.
From the information available  Scottish  Friendly  had all the information  it required 
including  the confirmation of explicit consent  on 15 November.  I'm not persuaded it's 
Ref: DRN84846816reasonable to expect  it would have been able to complete  the transfer and the receiving  
provider made the annuity payment and so start the policy with them  within 48 hours.  
So although I agree there  was a delay, I can't reasonably  say it prevented  the transfer  
from being realised before 17 November.
The funds were transferred on 30 November 2017. I've carefully considered the terms 
and conditions  of the receiving providers annuity.  It says in Clause 3.2:
"..These policy conditions  become binding on you and us and the policy comes into 
existence  on the latest of (i) payment to us of the Fund Value (ii) when we issue  you 
with the Policy  Schedule; and (iii) the policy start date.
The funds were received  on 30 November  and the policy  start date would when the 
next annuity  payment  would be made on 17 December 2017. Sadly, Mr J died on 14 
December  2017 and so the receiving  provider  was unable to start the policy  and had 
to return the funds  to Scottish Friendly. In effect, reversing the transfer to that of the 
original annuity.
As the Scottish Friendly annuity had no guarantee period, it ended when Mr J died 
and so was closed  with no further payment due.
Scottish Friendly, on investigating the matter then identified a further  error had been 
made. It said it had failed to identify  the deterioration of Mr J's health prior to the 
transfer. In accordance with the terms and condition of the flexible annuity policy,  the 
transfer value  would  have been  calculated at £0 and so the transfer  shouldn't have gone 
ahead at all.
I have looked  carefully at the terms and condition s. Under  Section 20.2 it says:
"..an additional charge  may be applied on transfer if your health has deteriorated  
since the commencement  date (in our opinion and based on medical information  you 
and/or a qualified medical practitioner  gives to us about  your health."
There wasn't  a calculation carried out to determine  if a transfer charge would be 
applicable.  It is possible that such a charge  may have  given rise to a zero value of the 
fund and Scottish  Friendly have said retrospectively this would have been the case  if 
Mr J's health position  hadn't been  overlooked.
I said whilst  the terms and conditions do allow for the possibility of a nil transfer value, 
I can understand Ms J's deep frustration and upset at being presented  with this 
information at such a late stage. I'm satisfied from looking at the enhanced quotation 
form that it was very clear Mr J had been  diagnosed with a Stage 4 cancer  so I'm not 
entirely sure how this was overlooked or the time sensitivity of the transfer.
Nevertheless, in actually  carrying out the transfer and then identifying  the error  I'm 
persuaded  Ms J suffered  a loss of expectation.  It must have been an incredibly difficult 
time after losing her partner, to then realise the transfer he has started would 
unfortunately not be possible,  to then be told the fund would actually have realised a nil 
transfer value  retrospectively.
Ref: DRN84846817Ms J has also raised the question of the cost of advice  and the professional  fees, for 
which  Mr J's independent adviser is seeking  payment. I have considered two invoices. 
The first for professional fees of £750  and the second for professional  fees,  which were  
paid from the funds,  transfer of £2291.02  and then clawed back  when the transfer 
couldn't proceed.
Scottish Friendly agreed to pay the first invoice of £750 but not the second, as the 
transfer  didn't proceed and so it argues the professional fees for carrying  out the 
transfer aren't due as in effect the policy  was cancelled. I'm in agreement  with Scottish 
Friendly on this point, I find it fair and reasonable to include the cost of the first invoice 
in my award, but, I don't  agree the second  invoice is payable.
In conclusion, I said I was persuaded Scottish Friendly have made a number  or 
errors including a delay  in transferring  the funds outside of its own timescale of 5 days. 
But, I don't agree that this prevented the transfer  completing before the 17 November 
2017 that would have been  the only way the policy could  have started with the 
receiving provider as the next due payment on 17 December couldn't  be met following 
the tragic passing  of Mr J.
I said I'm satisfied  from what I've seen that Scottish Friendly's  administrative error  
regarding a nil fund value, which it only recognised retrospectively,  did lead to a loss of 
expectation for Ms J which caused  her distress and inconvenience   and I'm going  to 
make an award in this respect. In addition, I'm going to award the professional  fees of 
the late Mr J's independent  financial adviser  from the first invoice of £750.
I said whilst  I know this does not come  near replacing the benefit Ms J was expecting,  
had the transfer based  on the incorrect  valuation, completed before Mr J's passing, the 
provisional  decision I have  reached and the award made  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances  but I understand will remain disappointing for Ms J.
In my provisional decision,  I said I intended to ask Scottish Friendly Assurance Society  
Limited to:
Refund Ms J £750 for the professional fees incurred in for the transfer.
Pay Ms J £2,000  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  caused
I invited both parties to make any further  submissions for my consideration before I 
issued  my final decision.
Scottish Friendly accepted the findings of my provision decision. 
Ms J didnt. She argues strongly that Scottish  Friendly caused delays from the outset and 
these directly led to the failure to transfer  the funds to the receiving provider before the key 
date of 17 November  2017. She asserts she has assurances from the receiving provider 
that Scottish  Friendly were in receipt  of all the necessary documents to complete  the 
transfer on 7 November. Had they done so the transfer would have completed and the new 
annuity been in payment before Mr J died. She also finds the terminology used, regarding 
the different  documents to be confusing.  Ms J also finds  the retrospective  decision to 
revalue the fund most disrespectful, had they carried out this calculation at the time she 
would never  have been in this position. Ms J feels she is out of pocket having paid the 
Ref: DRN84846818adviser for a transfer that hasnt been realised. She also finds the compensation derisory 
and feels very strongly Scottish Friendly have been  rewarded for incompetence.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im required to determine a complaint by 
reference to what  is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
In considering that in a particular case, I have to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant  time.
Ive looked at all the information afresh  and carefully  considered the submission made  
following my provisional decision.  Having done  so I havent been persuaded to change my 
provisional findings. I appreciate this will come  as a disappointment  to Ms J and I 
sympathise greatly  with the frustration and upset this matter has caused her following the 
loss her partner Mr J.
Its clear that Mr J intended to transfer  his annuity from Scottish Friendly to a third party 
provider. Sadly, Mr J had received a terminal diagnosis  and so the transfer of his annuity to 
a provider that could offer a new guaranteed  period  which  would have secured some 
provision for his partner  Ms J after his death,  would,  as Ms J has articulated been very 
important to him.
Theres also no dispute here that Scottish Friendly made a number  of errors that led to 
distress and inconvenience to Ms J. It seems there has also been a number of assurances 
given to Ms J by the receiving provider that have exacerbated Ms Js assertion that Sottish 
Friendly have unnecessarily delayed the transfer of Mr Js annuity and in doing  so have 
denied her the financial provision he was seeking  to assure.
In reaching my decision, I have carefully  considered the information provided by Scottish 
Friendly, the receiving  provider and Ms J. I have paid particular attention to timeline of 
events leading up to the 17th November 2017. This is because  had the transfer completed 
before this date,  the annuity  would  have been  in payment with the receiving provider prior to 
Mr Js death. Because the transfer completed after this date, the first payment and therefore  
the start date of the annuity became the 17th December, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision. Mr J died on 14th December 2017, and so the annuity couldnt 
commence and the transfer  had to be effectively rewound and returned to Scottish  Friendly. 
I understand Ms J found my reference to the terminology of the different forms required to 
complete the transfer confusing. I detail them specifically  only because all the forms were  
required in order for Scottish Friendly to proceed with the annuity transfer. I have detailed 
the timeline in my provisional findings but ultimately  Scottish Friendly  had all the necessary 
documentation by 3 November 2017.
Unfortunately, an anomaly on the covering letter sent by the receiving provider required 
additional clarification  which  Scottish Friendly requested by email  on 8 November 2017  and 
the receiving provider responded to on 15 November 2017. 
I understand Ms J says the receiving  provider has assured her the information  was provided 
earlier but the dates on the emails from both financial  providers are clear and specific with 
the receiving providers final response  on 15 November 2017 so it wouldnt have been 
Ref: DRN84846819possible to transfer  the funds to the receiving  provider  in time for it to commence the policy 
and make the first annuity payment on 17 November 2017.
Scottish Friendly has acknowledged it didnt complete the transfer  within its own service 
level agreement and although an error,  it didnt  make  a material  difference to the 
subsequently transpired to be of pivotal importance following Mr Js death on 14th December.
I can well understand  why Ms J finds the compensation a derisory  amount when compared 
to the provision the transfer would have  offered  under  a new guaranteed  period. Its 
important to say when considering what errors  have  been made my role is not to fine or 
punish a business. I havent found  that Scottish Friendly  were  responsible  for the delay 
which prevented  the transfer completing before 17 November 2017.  But, Im satisfied there 
were a number of errors detailed in my decision, which led to Ms J suffering a loss of 
expectation and significant distress and inconvenience and the award seeks  to recognise 
that.
With regard to the payment of the advisers fees.  I have considered two invoices. The first for 
£750, which Scottish Friendly has agreed  to refund. The second invoice for £2,291.01 
specifically states:
..professional fee for recommending the appropriate annuity  solution for the late Mr J. This 
fee was clawed back from the transfer of the pension  from Scottish Friendly  to the third 
party provider
Ms J is right to say there is no longer a commission fee but the provider made this payment 
from the fund and then clawed back because the transfer, for which the fee was charged, 
was rescinded. As the advice was given  to Mr J, and the transfer hasnt completed, I dont 
find it fair or reasonable  to ask either  Scottish Friendly  to make payment or indeed  Ms J.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I direct Scottish  Friendly Assurance Society Limited to:
Refund Ms J £750 for the professional fees incurred for the transfer.
Pay Ms J £2,000  in recognition of the distress and inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8484681