K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complained that Collingwood Insurance Company  Ltd refused to pay a claim  under  
his taxi insurance policy. 
background
Mr L phoned Collingwood on 17 December 2018  to report  a claim. He gave details of the 
claim and said the accident  happened  around 5.30pm on Saturday  15 December while he 
was working as a delivery driver. Collingwoods call handler couldnt find details of his policy 
and after trying a number of times the line cut out.
Mr L called  back after speaking to his broker and said hed got the date of the accident  
wrong. He said it was actually between 1am and 2am on Sunday  16 December while he was 
working as a taxi driver.  Collingwood said Mr L wasnt insured with them until 00.01am  on  
16 December. It thought his first account  was most likely to be true which  meant he wasnt 
insured with it at the time of the accident. It also said his policy covered him for private hire 
and not delivery  work.
While Collingwood was considering Mr Ls claim he brought  his complaint to us. He said he 
thought it should pay his claim and he was unable to work due to not having  the repairs 
done. Mr L said hed made a mistake when reporting the claim and the accident was after 
midnight so definitely on 16 December.  He was also unhappy with the service hed received 
from Collingwood and said call handlers  had hung  up on him. 
Collingwood still thought  Mr Ls first account  was the correct  one so it turned down his claim.  
Mr L said he wouldnt have had any reason to lie. He said he had separate  insurance for his 
delivery work and hed be covered by that if the accident had happened  while  he was doing 
delivery work.
Our investigator thought Collingwood had acted reasonably in taking Mr Ls first account of 
what happened and turning down  his claim because he wasnt  covered  by the policy. Mr L 
didnt agree and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I can see Mr L buys weekly taxi insurance  policies. Most of the policies hes provided us with 
are from an insurer  Ill refer to as H. These policies all start at the time the previous one 
expires. There was a policy with H in place at the time of Mr Ls accident that ran from          
9 December to 4.16pm  on 16 December. This was a third party  only policy  which meant that     
Mr L wouldnt have been able to claim on it for any damage to his own car. 
I understand Mr L buys his policies through a broker and he bought his policy with 
Collingwood at 5.01pm on 15 December to start at 00.01am  on 16 December. This means if 
his accident happened around 5.30pm on 15 December it wouldnt be covered as the policy  
hadnt started yet. 
Ref: DRN80472192Ive listened to the call where  Mr L told Collingwood about the accident. He said it had 
happened at around 5.30pm while he was doing  delivery work.  Collingwoods  call handler  
spent some time trying to find Mr Ls policy but couldnt find his details. She told him there 
was no insurance  policy  with Collingwood for his vehicle. Mr L said hed got the documents 
in front of him and hed check with his broker. I can hear that the line then went  dead but I 
dont think the call handler hung up on him as she said hello, hello to see if he was still 
there. 
Ive also listened  to the call where Mr L called Collingwood back and said the accident  had 
taken place the following day while he was driving his taxi. I understand Mr L said he made a 
mistake with the date and time of the accident due to tiredness. But I think  its most likely his 
first account  of what happened is the correct one as it was freshest in his mind  and I dont 
think its likely he would  have provided incorrect information when reporting his claim. 
Mr L said he would have  been covered by his delivery companys insurer  if the accident had 
happened at 5.30pm.  But I understand  from that insurer that he would only be covered while  
doing deliveries.  And Mr L provided information  that shows he didnt start his deliveries  until 
6.30pm on 15 December which means he wouldnt  have been covered. 
On balance I think its most likely Mr Ls first account  of when the accident happened is the 
correct one, which means he wasnt covered by his policy with Collingwood. For that reason 
I think Collingwood has acted fairly and reasonably when turning down his claim.  
I understand Mr L is also unhappy  with the service  Collingwood provided  and Ive listened to 
calls where it ended the calls before Mr L would have liked. However  I think  these calls had 
become unproductive and the call handlers ended the calls appropriately in the 
circumstances. I also havent  heard or seen anything to suggest Collingwood  hasnt provided  
Mr L with fair and reasonable service.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr L was hoping for, but Im not going  to interfere with 
Collingwoods decision  to turn down his claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8047219