K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited  (ATSL) took an unreasonable length of 
time to open  a share trading account linked to his pension.
background
Mr F held a Retirement Account with a provider I will call P. This account had cash reserves 
that Mr F wanted to invest directly  in shares.  Mr Fs financial advisor notified P in late 
February 2017 that Mr F wished to use his retirement account to purchase shares, but Mr F 
wasnt able to start using  his account  in this way until 16 March. 
P advised Mr F that in order to trade he would need to open an account  with a third party   
ATSL. Mr Fs advisor made that request on 1 March but Ps offices were closed for two days  
due to adverse  weather. So ATSL didnt receive Mr Fs application  until 6 March.  It opened  
his account two days later.
Upon the account being opened, a welcome email was sent to Mr Fs advisor stating the 
dealing account  was open.  The account number was provided  and Mr F was asked to get in 
touch by telephone to activate his account  and enable  online access.  
But when Mr Fs advisor called ATSL to activate the account he was told that he wasnt 
registered on ATSLs system. So he would need  to provide some  further  details by email 
before the activation could be completed. ATSL has accepted that due to an administrative 
oversight this request wasnt processed  as quickly as it should have been. The end result  
was that Mr Fs login details were  sent two days later than they should  have  been.
The online account  was finally activated on 14 March and Mr Fs first trades  were  placed on 
16 March. 
Mr F complained to P and ATSL about  the delays he experienced in trading stocks in his 
account. ATSL didnt  accept that Mr F had been delayed from trading by its errors. It pointed 
out that Mr F hadnt funded the account until 16 March and so no trades could have  
happened before  then.  So Mr F brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Fs complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He thought that ATSL  had 
delayed Mr Fs ability  to trade in shares  by around two days. So he asked ATSL to pay Mr F 
£200 for the inconvenience this had caused him. 
ATSL accepted that it had caused some delay in issuing  the online login details to Mr Fs 
advisor. But it didnt  consider  that this delay  had prevented Mr F from trading as his account 
was unfunded at that time.  So it only offered to pay Mr F £25 for the inconvenience hed 
been caused. Mr F didnt  accept that offer.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr F accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
Ref: DRN85087222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
In his assessment  our adjudicator set out quite  clearly the timeline of events between Mr F 
telling P that he wanted to trade on his retirement account, and those trades being placed. It 
doesnt seem to me that there is much dispute about  when each of the events happened.  So 
I dont think I need  to go back over that timeline in this decision. But there is some 
disagreement about the importance of some of the events, and where  the responsibility lies. 
And it is those events that I will consider in more depth in this decision.
First I think it is worth  noting  that Mr F also made a complaint against P for its part in the 
delays. The start of the process had been  delayed when Ps offices were closed due to 
adverse weather warnings. P offered some compensation to Mr F that our adjudicator  
thought was fair. Mr F accepted that offer. So I think what happened before the request was 
first passed  to ATSL has been dealt with and shouldnt form part of my consideration in this 
complaint.
It seems  to me that Mr Fs trading account  was opened  promptly by ATSL. And in the normal 
course of events he could  have  activated  that account with a single phone  call. But it wasnt  
Mr F that tried to activate  the account   it was his financial advisor. And whilst it was 
perfectly normal and in order for the advisor  to be instructing ATSL  on Mr Fs behalf it 
presented ATSL with some problems as it had no details for the advisor that it could use to 
identify and verify his access. So ATSL reasonably  asked for some further information from 
the advisor to complete the account opening  process.
ATSL accepts that there  was an administrative  oversight when Mr Fs advisor provided the 
details that it asked for. That error  delayed the issue of the online login details to Mr Fs 
advisor by two days. So although I think it was reasonable  for ATSL  to ask for the additional 
information it didnt  process that information as quickly  as it should have.
ATSL has argued that delay didnt cause  any material  harm to Mr F because his account 
wasnt funded  and so couldnt  have traded anyway at that time. But it seems  to me that Mr F 
didnt become aware of what he needed to do to fund his account  until his advisor tried to 
use it. So it follows that if his advisor  had been  able to login to the account two days  earlier,  
he would  have taken  steps to ensure it was funded  two days  earlier too. I havent  seen 
anything that makes me think Mr F didnt have the cash  sat ready with P to make the 
purchases with ATSL.
Ref: DRN85087223The entire process of setting up Mr Fs trading account with ATSL,  from when it got the initial  
request from P to when Mr F was able to place his trades took around 10 days. I dont think  
in the normal course  of events that I would  consider  that time to be unreasonable.  But 
digging deeper  into the events does  show that things were delayed  by ATSL  for around two 
days. And that has caused some inconvenience,  and potentially  loss, to Mr F.
I have looked  at the relevant prices  of the shares  Mr F bought, both on the day they were 
purchased and two days  earlier when I think that could have been purchased if ATSL  hadnt 
caused a delay. Of course in doing so it is impossible to be sure when Mr F would have  
actually placed  his trades, and in particular at what time  prices of shares  generally change  
during each trading day. So I cant exactly quantify  whether the delay caused  a loss to Mr F. 
But I can see that there wasnt any significant  change in the prices of the shares bought by 
Mr F over that time. 
So without being able to quantify any price difference, but accepting  that any loss or gain 
would be relatively  small,  I think the best way to resolve this complaint is by asking  ATSL to 
make a payment  to reflect the inconvenience  Mr F has been caused in this matter. And 
having considered that payment carefully  I think the sum of £200 as suggested by our 
adjudicator is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint and direct Alliance Trust Savings Limited 
to pay Mr F the sum of £200 for the inconvenience he has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8508722