K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Ageas Insurance Limiteds approved  repairer failed to provide him 
with a courtesy car while  his car was being  repaired.  Mr R made a claim under his car 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr R bought a car insurance policy with Ageas. In November 2018  Mr R reported an incident 
and made  a claim for repairs to his car. Ageas arranged for an approved  repairer to collect  
Mr Rs car the following day and provide a courtesy car as outlined under the policy.
Unfortunately the approved repairer  didnt have a courtesy car available  for Mr R when it 
collected his car. As an alternative, Ageas offered Mr R the use of a hire car. But Mr R was 
unhappy about having to enter into a contract with the hire car company. He believed this 
was something either Ageas or the approved repairer should do on his behalf.  Mr R was 
unhappy that he was being  asked to do something  outside of the contract he had with Ageas  
in order to have  use of a car while his car was being  repaired.  
Ageas told Mr R that it would arrange the hire car and it assured him that the insurance 
cover would mirror his current policy. But Mr R wasnt satisfied and so he declined the use of 
a hire car. The approved repairer was able to provide  Mr R with a courtesy car six days after 
it collected his car for repair. 
Mr R complained to Ageas. He wanted  it to compensate him for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused him as he said he had to make many  calls on the day the approved 
repairer collected his car. And he said he was inconvenienced by not being able to use a 
courtesy car for five days. 
Ageas said it wasnt unusual to arrange alternative  car hire where a courtesy car isnt 
available. But for the inconvenience caused  to Mr R it offered  to pay him £20 compensation. 
Ageas said that the hire car company would need to take some personal details from Mr R in 
the event of any speeding fines  and this would have been the same  if hed been  provided 
with a courtesy car. 
Mr R remained  unhappy, so he asked  us to look at his complaint. Our investigator  thought  
Ageas had dealt  with Mr Rs complaint reasonably. 
Mr R didnt agree. So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
I appreciate the point  Mr R makes  which is that his policy  with Ageas guarantees that a 
courtesy car will be provided while his car is being repaired. However, any approved repairer 
will have a finite number of cars in its fleet available and this wont always  match  the number 
of customers that may require a replacement car. So it isnt unusual for an insurer to arrange 
an alternative method  of providing a replacement  car in these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN84253442Mr R feels it was unreasonable of Ageas to ask him to enter  into a contractual  agreement 
with the hire car company.  He had concerns because it required  him to provide his credit 
card details and pay a £1 security deposit. Mr R believes  that Ageas  should have sourced 
another car and dealt with any paperwork,  then delivered the car to him on the basis of a 
courtesy car. 
However, Ageas explained to Mr R that the arrangement with the hire car company would 
leave any liability with Ageas and that the cover  would mirror his policy.  But the hire car 
company would need to take some  details in case it received  for example - a speeding fine 
while Mr R was using the car. This would be something Mr R would be responsible for  
whether he used a hire car or a courtesy  car.
Mr R decided not to take up the option  of the hire car. And so he was without use of a 
replacement car for five days. But I think Ageas acted in a fair and reasonable way. It also 
explained that Mr R would  usually be required to enter into a similar contractual  agreement 
with the approved repairer when being  provided with a replacement car. So he would have 
also needed to provide  personal details for the same  reasons while he was using the 
courtesy car. Ageas  has provided  a copy of the agreement from the approved  repairer.
I understand Mr R doesnt feel the compensation offer Ageas made  of £20 for his time 
dealing with the replacement car issue is reflective  of the inconvenience  and stress he says 
it caused him. As well as his time in calls, he said he would have been expected to read over 
the hire car company  contract in his own time.
I think its fair to expect a degree of inconvenience when dealing  with a claim. Its inevitable.  
Fortunately it isnt something that happens  every  day.
I realise Mr R will be disappointed with my decision.  But overall I dont think  Ageas acted 
unreasonably. I think its compensation offer of £20 for the inconvenience  it caused him is 
enough to put things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
If Ageas hasnt already paid the £20 compensation it offered Mr R to resolve  his complaint, I 
recommend it pay this to him. 
Ageas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr R accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Ageas Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr R how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN84253443Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425344