K822xcomplaint
Mr D and Mr A complain  about damage  to personal  effects and flooring which  they say 
happened while their home was being  repaired following a subsidence claim.
The claim was made  under a policy Mr D held with Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company 
Limited. 
background 
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 22 September 2020. 
In that decision  I explained why I was minded  to uphold  the complaint, and what I thought  LV 
should do to put things  right. 
LV has replied to say it doesnt have anything  further to add. Mr D and Mr A havent  
responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further substantive  comments  I confirm  my provisional  decision. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to:
Pay Mr D, the policyholder, the cost of repairing the personal effects listed  in my 
provisional decision;
Arrange to repair the damaged laminate flooring. If a lasting repair  cannot  be done 
satisfactorily, replace  the flooring;
Pay Mr D £100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87980992provisional decision
complaint
Mr D and Mr A complain  about damage to personal effects and flooring which  they say happened  
while their home was being repaired following a subsidence claim.
The claim was made under a policy Mr D held with Liverpool Victoria Insurance  Company Limited. 
background
Mr D lives at the property with his son-in-law Mr A, and daughter Mrs A. Mrs A has corresponded  
about the complaint on her familys behalf.
The property needed extensive repairs to most rooms as a result of subsidence damage.  
LV instructed contractors  to carry out this work. 
The family moved into temporary  accommodation while  the work was being done. Mrs A says that in 
preparation, and at LVs request, they moved most of their furniture into the middle of the rooms. 
Some furniture and personal  effects were also stored in a dressing-room which  Mrs A says the 
contractors didnt need  to enter.
Mrs A complained to LV that damage had been caused to several personal items when the 
contractors moved pieces  of furniture and put heavy  objects  on top of them. She also says that newly-
laid laminate flooring had been chipped and scuffed in the hall, dining room  and living room.
LV didnt agree that its contractors had caused damage to the personal possessions  or flooring. But it 
said that, as a gesture  of goodwill, it would pay to have the flooring repaired.  It obtained a quotation 
from a flooring repair company and offered  a cash amount to cover the estimated cost.
Mrs A didnt accept the offer and brought the complaint to us. She said she thought the repair  would 
only be a temporary solution, suitable for surface markings but not deep chips and gouges. She was 
also unhappy  that LV hadnt accepted responsibility  for the damaged personal effects.
 
Our investigator identified some shortcomings in LVs handling of the claim and recommended that it 
pay £100 compensation.  He didnt uphold  the complaint  about the personal items, and he thought  
LVs offer in respect of the flooring was fair.
As Mrs A remained  unhappy the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Im only looking at the complaints about the damage to personal items and damage to 
the laminate flooring. A separate  complaint  about a retaining wall is being  dealt separately by our 
service and isnt affected by my decision.
personal items
Mrs A has explained that there  was a lot of furniture in the property  which needed  to be moved so that 
the contractors could start work. I understand that some of this was done by Mrs A and her husband  
before the work started and that some was moved as the work progressed.  
Ref: DRN87980993There doesnt  seem to be any dispute that some personal  items were damaged. Mrs A has provided  
photographs of damage to a sandal, a picture frame and an armchair.  Shes also provided  estimates 
for the cost of repair which total just over £200. 
Mrs A says the items were damaged when  LVs contractors moved  extra items into the dressing  room 
and stacked  items on top of each other without protection. The contractors say they didnt cause the 
damage. 
In this sort of situation, where theres a dispute  about events, I have to consider whats more  likely 
than not to have happened. 
Shortly after the work  started Mrs A contacted LV to say how unhappy she was that the contractors 
had put additional  items into the dressing room and had piled furniture on top of a chair  without 
covering it. She explained that shed  left personal  effects  in the dressing room and that access to 
these had been made difficult by the contractors  actions.
Of course, its possible that Mrs A and her husband might have unwittingly caused the damage 
themselves when moved things ready for the work  to start. But I dont think thats the most  likely 
explanation. Mrs A explained that they stored things in the dressing-room  with the intention of having 
access to them and I think they will have positioned  things as carefully as they could.
The contractors agree  that they had to move  furniture  and that they moved  additional things into the 
dressing room. On balance  I think its more  likely that the damage was caused then, although  I accept 
that the contractors  may not have been aware  of it at the time. 
In the circumstances I think it would  be fair for LV to pay for the damaged items to be repaired.
flooring
Mrs A has said that the flooring was new, and undamaged,  before the work began. 
She has now provided photographs  showing  areas where the floor has been  scuffed and marked. The 
flooring repair company, at the contractors request,  has provided a quotation  for repairing 8 x chips. 
It seems to have  quantified  the damage  from seeing  the photographs.
Im persuaded  by Mrs As testimony. She voiced her concerns  to LV at an early  stage. She was 
worried about  the lack of protection to the floor and said damage was being  caused by workmen 
walking brick  dust and mortar  through the property.  Whilst I cant be sure how the damage was 
caused Im satisfied that its more likely than not that it happened during  the building  works and that it 
was caused by the contractors.
So, having (provisionally) decided that LV is responsible for the damage I must now consider how 
best it can put things right. 
LV has offered to pay the equivalent of the flooring repair companys  quotation of £480. But I think  
there are potential shortcomings with this offer which  Ill explain.
In its estimate the repair  company says:
We can offer you our normal working  hours day rate per technician of £355 + VAT. Please note 
technicians will complete  all repairs possible within the 7.5 hours, if further time is required a second  
day will need  to be scheduled and paid for. We estimate the repair to take 1 x day. and 
Where possible, we will offer a 12-month warranty on our work. However,  on this occasion, due to 
the repair  type and location  we are unable to offer a warranty as we cannot guarantee the longevity of 
the repair/repair aesthetic aspect.
Ref: DRN87980994As far as Im aware the repair company has only seen photographs of the damage.  So its possible 
that its estimate of one days work  might be inaccurate. The work might take longer and be more 
costly.
And, importantly,  it seems to me from the repair  companys caveat that there is doubt as to whether  
this type of repair is suitable  for this type of damage. That would support  Mrs As concern that the 
solution might  only be temporary.
In the circumstances I think a fairer solution would  be for LV to arrange to carry  out the repairs itself. 
That way, if the job is more expensive, LV will cover  the cost. If the repair is unsatisfactory, or fails, LV 
will need  to remedy that, possibly by replacing  the flooring.
Of course, If LV prefers not to undertake the repair  it can replace the flooring straight away or, if the 
policyholder agrees, settle a cash amount to cover a suitable replacement.
Our investigator identified other  shortcomings in LVs handing of the claim and recommended £100 
compensation. I dont intent  to change that.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold the complaint  and require Liverpool Victoria Insurance  
Company Limited to:
Pay Mr D, the policyholder, the cost of repairing the personal effects listed above;
Arrange to repair the damaged laminate flooring.  If a lasting repair cannot be done  
satisfactorily, replace the flooring;
Pay Mr D £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN8798099