K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained Sainsburys Bank plc wont refund  him for transactions worth  nearly  
£4,500 which he didnt make.
background
In March 2018 Mr H was abroad with a few friends. They went  out drinking on 22 March (into 
the morning of 23 March). They  went  into a nightclub. Mr H is then unclear about exactly 
what happens next but after his card was declined for a large-value  transaction, he feels  hes 
kept there against  his will. The staff in the nightclub then emptied Mr Hs wallet and used  all 
his cards to settle  his bill. Some of these transactions were declined and Mr H ended up 
paying what was owed in cash. Mr H has told us the whole atmosphere was threatening. He 
had to wait until the police  turned up before he was able to leave.  At no stage did Mr H leave 
without his cards or his phone. 
The following  day Mr H was contacted  by one of his banks  about some transactions theyd 
declined. This had made him suspicious and he checked his Sainsburys  account online. He 
then contacted them to dispute  the transactions. He also called his other banks to see what  
had happened  and what hed been charged with. 
Sainsburys was able to show that Mr H had  as they argued  authorised  three payments 
to the nightclub. One at 00:12, and another for the same amount  (over  £1,750)  at 00:50. The 
last transaction  was for half that amount and was made a further 38 minutes later. As this 
had been authenticated  by the genuine  card and PIN, Sainsburys had limited grounds to 
challenge the transaction as fraud. However they did attempt to charge these transactions  
back to the nightclub using the chargeback  scheme rules.
During that period, Mr H was temporarily  reimbursed with the money from these 
transactions. However once getting  receipts from the nightclub showing Mr H had spent 
€5,000 in the VIP area, Sainsburys re-debited Mr Hs credit card account.
Mr H brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. He also spent time trying  to get hold of four of 
Mr Hs other  banks or credit  card providers. One was able to show  two declined  transactions  
earlier in the evening. The others  had no information to show  Mr Hs cards  had been used in 
this nightclub. 
Our investigator felt overall Mr H had consented to these transactions even if hed been  
under the influence of quite a bit of alcohol  or been misled  about how much he had to pay. 
He didnt think Sainsburys should do anything further.
Mr H was upset by this conclusion. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN81509172The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Sainsburys and Mr H have  told us. Like our investigator, Ive also considered 
evidence provided  to us by Mr Hs other banks and credit card companies.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 29 November 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following  issues are relevant to this complaint:
Theres no dispute Mr H was in a bar on 22-23 March. He tells us he was with 
friends. There were no lower-value payments  say the cost of a round of drinks   
attempted on any of Mr Hs accounts  earlier that evening. 
Whilst Mr Hs story  has been  consistent  albeit with gaps  Ive not seen anything to 
show that he did report this to the police  whilst  abroad. Hes told us he didnt enter 
his PIN himself but that all his PINs are the same  so it would have been easy for staff 
in the nightclub to use his other cards.  
The evidence from Mr Hs other  banks  or credit  card companies dont match what he 
told us. Three of those  businesses werent able to show us that his cards had been 
used for transactions which were declined. Mr H has argued this may well be 
because not all banks  retain data for declined transactions. Ive taken this into 
account.
The bank  that did have data was able to show two transactions made earlier than the 
disputed transactions  on Mr Hs Sainsburys credit card.  These two transactions (for 
both exactly half the £1,750 of Mr Hs first transaction on his Sainsburys card and 
then exactly half that amount  again)  were  declined.
This suggests a potential scenario  where Mr H is quite correct: some transactions  
were declined  early on but not on his Sainsburys card. It is then the Sainsburys card 
that Mr H uses  to pay for the services hes buying.
Sainsburys no longer  has a record of what they were told by the merchant when they 
disputed Mr Hs transactions with them. But Ive seen an email exchange between 
Mr H and Sainsburys which seems to suggest they got a receipt for services in the 
VIP area. These were priced at €5,000.
Mr H says he didnt enter his PIN himself but overall I think  its likely he did. I say this 
because his story suggests a frenzy of his cards  being attempted  all at once. And this 
isnt what happened. The actual transactions were debited  at regular 38 minute 
intervals. This suggests to me the club was charging  for use of a specific area in a 
controlled manner.  
Ref: DRN81509173Mr H has suggested a second  terminal was brought to him after transactions were  
declined. That may be what  happened  later on but all the transactions  we have 
records for show they were completed  on the same terminal.
Itd be unreasonable to expect Mr H to recall exactly what  happened that evening as 
its now nearly two years ago. And hes not disputed that he had had a fair amount to 
drink. But if staff at the nightclub were trying to get payment  and using Mr Hs cards, I 
think the transactions would have happened all at the same time.  Im also not sure 
why the nightclub staff would first think all of Mr Hs PINs were  the same.
By using  his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal  or even whether 
Mr H was so drunk he didnt notice what it said, Mr H was consenting to the 
transactions.
Our service is aware of bars which have been  subject to a number of very similar  
complaints: threatening behaviour, over-charging,  or misleading  customers about 
what they were paying for. Ive taken this into account.
Mr H has objected to the transactions on the basis he didnt get what he paid for. This was 
part of his argument that he may be able to get refunded under either section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act or similar consumer protection  legislation. This would need  evidence of 
what Mr H thought he was buying, what he thought he was going  to pay for it and why he 
doesnt think the services  met that test. I appreciate getting this information  from Mr H would 
be odd as hes disputed  whether he made the transactions at all.
Mr H has also wondered  why Sainsburys allowed  him to spend  more than his credit  limit. 
Credit card companies do make  a choice to do this: generally to avoid their customers  being 
embarrassed. The consequences for Mr H in this nightclub may have been even worse  than 
mere embarrassment.  I dont think they did anything  wrong  here.
Im afraid, like our investigator, I dont have  good  news for Mr H. On balance  I believe Mr H 
consented to these payments  potentially whilst unaware exactly what he was paying for  
and therefore  theres  no basis for me to ask Sainsburys to refund him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Hs complaint against 
Sainsburys Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8150917