K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that no-one contacted him to offer advice after he opened an investment 
ISA. He says hes been  charged £0.30  for advice he didnt receive and that his investment 
hasnt grown.
The complaint is made  against Financial Administration Services  Limited (FASL).
background
In early 2018 Mr O opened  a stocks and shares  ISA through Cavendish  Online. He paid in 
£2,000. He says he understood from the website that someone would get in touch with him 
to discuss his investment  options.
A year later Mr O received a statement showing that £0.30 had been taken from the account 
and that the amount invested  hadnt grown  at all. He was unhappy about the charges and 
the way the investment had been managed.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Os complaint. He said that the account had been opened 
on an execution-only  basis with no advice being offered or given. He thought  that had been 
made clear on the Cavendish Online website. He explained that the £0.30 taken from the 
account was an on-going  service fee which had also been explained on the website.
Mr O didnt agree. He said the investigator  hadnt  seen  what  hed seen when he opened the 
account and that businesses  shouldnt  be allowed  to charge for advice not given.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O invested in a stocks and shares  ISA and he says he was expecting someone to contact  
him to advise him which funds to invest in. 
Ive looked at the website  for Cavendish  Online and I cant see anything to suggest that 
Cavendish, or the fund platform  it gave access to, would provide initial or ongoing advice.
As our investigator explained the ISA and Investments section of the website explains how 
to set up an account and says the investor  needs to decide how much to invest and which 
funds to invest in.
It goes on to ask the investor to confirm that theyve not received advice from Cavendish 
Online in relation  to investing and to acknowledge that Cavendish Online will not review any 
investments purchased. 
In order to go ahead with the application the investor  has to tick a box to confirm that theyre  
happy to proceed  on that basis.
Ref: DRN84017762Mr O opened an account and put in £2,000.  But he didnt choose any funds.  So his money 
stayed in the account as cash.  The £0.30 deducted was to cover Cavendishs  on-going 
service charge of 0.05% which is set out in the our fees part of the website.
Im sorry  that Mr O is unhappy about whats happened but I dont think  anything  has gone 
wrong here.  Im satisfied that the account Mr O opened was execution-only. That is to say it 
didnt include any advice  and it was for Mr O to decide how he wanted to invest.
As he didnt  choose  any funds it was right that the money stayed in cash  and that Mr O was 
charged only the ongoing service fee.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial I Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8401776