K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains that she wasnt told a finance  agreement, that was taken out with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF), to fund 
her sons  car, would be in her sole name.  She says she was led to believe she was to be a 
guarantor and the agreement was therefore misrepresented.
 
background
Mrs J took receipt of a used car in April 2017.  She financed the deal through  a conditional 
sale agreement with BPF but she says she thought she was agreeing to be a guarantor and 
that she didnt  understand  the agreement was to be in her sole name.
She says her sons partner, who Ill call Miss M, had been set up to pay the direct debits and 
her son was the registered keeper  of the vehicle but she doesnt even have a driving license 
so she cant understand  how BPF could have set up an agreement  in her name. She also 
says that when she visited the dealership they simply asked her to sign a box on a tablet and 
that she wasnt shown  the full finance agreement they say she agreed to.
In late 2017 when BPF realised that Mrs J wasnt the registered keeper they considered  
terminating the agreement because they thought Mrs J hadnt been complying with its terms 
which required her to keep the car in her possession. They suggested to Mrs J that she may 
be in breach of the contract but they subsequently  made an internal decision to take no 
action when they realised Mrs Js son had been  registered as the keeper since  inception of 
the finance. They considered a breach had therefore not occurred but they failed to let Mrs J 
know about this and consequently offered  her £100 compensation. Mrs J didnt accept the 
payment.
The agreement fell into arrears when Miss M cancelled the direct debit instruction and when 
payments werent  received and the cars tax and MOT expired, BPF contacted  Mrs J who 
agreed to voluntarily surrender the car. 
Mrs J complained to BPF that the agreement had been mis-sold to her and she should not 
be held liable for it. But BPF disagreed.  They explained that they dont offer guarantor loans 
and that the agreement Mrs J signed  had clearly explained it was in her sole name and she 
was responsible for payments.  They  thought it was reasonable to suggest Mrs J should have 
read through  the finance agreement to understand what  she was agreeing to and they 
explained that a welcome  letter and texts were sent to her which would have  explained the 
lending arrangements. They went on to say that Mrs J would have  also received annual 
statements which would have made it clear she was responsible for the debt. But they noted 
she hadnt complained to them about  any of this until October 2018 and they questioned why 
she hadnt raised the issue earlier.
Mrs J wasnt happy with BPFs response so she referred her complaint to this service and 
our adjudicator provided his opinion. He didnt  think  there was evidence to suggest the 
finance agreement  had been mis-sold. He thought the welcome  documents sent to Mrs J in 
April 2017 were clear and set out the lending  arrangement which  confirmed she was the sole 
applicant. He thought it was reasonable to suggest  Mrs J should have read this information. 
He noted that in a call in September 2017  Mrs J had been told she was the sole applicant 
and not the guarantor but that she hadnt chosen  to dispute this until October  2018  after the 
default had been raised.  He thought it was most likely that the confusion  stemmed from 
Ref: DRN87266342miscommunication between Mrs J, her son and Miss M but he didnt think  there was 
evidence to suggest BPF had misrepresented the agreement.
Mrs J didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. She provided a detailed  response in which, 
amongst other things,  she said shed been encouraged by this service to raise  a complaint 
against BPF and in hindsight she thought  shed been wrongly advised and should  have  
raised it against the dealership. She went on to say that the dealership should have 
expressly advised her that she was not a guarantor and she said it was wrong  to expect her 
to be the keeper of the vehicle and keep it under her control and insured  when  she didnt 
even have a driving  license.  She was also disappointed that the adjudicator hadnt 
considered the pre-lending checks done by the dealership. She therefore  asked  for a final 
decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think there is sufficient evidence that this finance agreement was mis-sold to Mrs J. I 
know that will disappoint her so please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs J signed a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit  agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the finance  agreement should not be 
misrepresented. If it was and Mrs J was told something that wasnt  true and that persuaded 
her to enter into an agreement she would  not have otherwise entered into, then BPF are 
responsible and Id ask them to take some  action to remedy the situation.
I can see that this has been a very difficult situation for Mrs J but I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence to suggest BPF have done anything  wrong.
The relevant  legislation  holds BPF responsible  for the negotiations the dealership  had with 
Mrs J when setting up the agreement.  They were  acting as BPFs  agents in the negotiation 
and as such I think she was given correct advice to lodge the complaint against BPF and not 
the dealership.
Theres been a rather complex agreement put in place here.  Mrs J has taken responsibility  
for the debt but payments have been initially set up from Miss Ms account and the car has 
been registered in her sons name. Its not entirely unusual for someone  else to make 
payments to a debt but the responsibility  for the debt stays  with the person who is listed on 
the agreement  and if those payments stop the creditor will pursue the debtor (thats  Mrs J 
here) for the payments. Mrs Js son has always been listed as the registered keeper but its 
his mother who has taken  responsibility for payment. Whilst the set up of the agreement is 
complicated I dont think theres  anything  wrong  with it.
Ref: DRN87266343Im persuaded that there was enough  information  provided to Mrs J for her to understand the 
nature of the agreement she was entering  into. She received a welcome  pack  in which it was 
clear she was the sole name on the agreement; she also received statements that I think  
would have made it clear  she was the debtor in the arrangement and, when it became clear 
to her that she wasnt a guarantor, I cant see sufficient evidence  that she raised timely 
concerns to BPF about that. I think,  had her responsibility been unclear, she would have  
been likely  to have  done that at an early point. But it appears that a complaint wasnt 
received by BPF until the account was in significant difficulty. Im not persuaded that theres 
sufficient evidence here that the finance  agreement was misrepresented.
I can see that Mrs J is disappointed that the adjudicator didnt consider the pre-lending 
checks that were completed by the dealership. The affordability of this arrangement has 
never been something thats been disputed and as such  BPF have  not had a chance  to 
consider it. If Mrs J thinks the agreement wasnt affordable  and the finance shouldnt  have 
been provided she will need to take this up with BPF first. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8726634