K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the decision by Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
to terminate his income protection claim. 
background
Mr G held income protection  cover through his employers group scheme. He stopped 
working in his occupation (in a senior  management  role) because  of ill health,  and a claim 
was submitted. Whilst this was being  considered by L&G, his employment  was terminated. 
L&G was told that Mr Gs employment had ended, and it made the decision to pay him 
benefit directly for a period  of up to five years. The claim started in October 2006 and was 
due to end in October 2011.  
In 2010, L&G obtained evidence that it thought showed Mr G working  in another  occupation. 
Because of this, it concluded that Mr G was no longer incapacitated, and it terminated  the 
claim as of August  2010. 
In 2015, unhappy with L&Gs decision to stop his benefit before the end of the five year 
period, Mr G brought a complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision on 21 July 2017. My provisional findings  were:
Mr G says that L&G used the wrong  definition of incapacity when assessing  his claim. He 
thinks this means L&G wrongly terminated his claim.  
I see L&G told Mr G that his claim  was assessed against the any occupation definition  of 
incapacity.
Mr G was a category 4 member under the policy. The policy schedule explains the 
definition of incapacity that applies to category  4 members is suited occupation rather  than 
any occupation. Im satisfied that L&G used  the correct definition  of incapacity to assess 
Mr Gs claim. Ill explain why. 
Usually, an incapacity definition of any occupation  means the insured would need to be 
totally unable to perform any occupation whatsoever. This service has long held that, unless 
the insurer can show the definition and its significance was fully explained  at the time of sale, 
a strict  interpretation of this definition is unfair.  We expect insurers  to instead interpret this as 
a suited occupation definition. 
L&G has done this. Although it made an error by referring to Mr Gs definition of incapacity 
as any occupation  rather than a suited occupation, this hasnt made any difference to how 
its assessed his claim.  It explained to Mr G that any occupation meant  hed need to be 
unable to perform any occupation  to which he is reasonably  suited by means  of training, 
education or experience. This is the same as the suited occupation definition of incapacity.
Its very unfortunate  that L&G wasnt able to provide  this service with the correct policy terms 
at the outset. If it had done, this would have  saved some confusion. Anyway, the correct 
policy terms state the criteria for benefit  to be paid are as follows:
Ref: DRN87827842(i) in the opinion of Legal & General, is incapacitated by a specific,  diagnosed illness 
or injury so that he is unable to undertake any occupation which  Legal  & General 
considers to be appropriate to his experience, training or education,
(ii) is not engaged in any other occupation other than one which gives  rise to 
payment of partial  benefit
Partial benefit is defined  in the policy as:
A Disabled  Member who, on or at any time after Benefit Accrual  Date, either  returns  
to his own occupation (as defined within the definition of Disabled Member) on a part-
time basis or takes up another  occupation  but, as a direct result of the illness  or injury  
giving rise to the incapacity at the commencement of the Deferred Period, suffers  a 
loss of earnings compared to when he was following his own occupation will continue 
to be regarded as a Disabled Member. In this case partial Members  Benefit and 
partial Additional  Benefit, if any, will be payable. The amount of such benefit  will be 
determined by Legal & General taking  into account relevant factors at that time and 
at any time thereafter, including  the reduction  in earnings, the hours worked  and the 
capacity of the Disabled Member to undertake  his own occupation on any other basis 
or to take up any other occupation.
As a reminder, there are a number of relevant dates to take into account  here.  L&G started 
paying the claim in October 2006.  The longest period it would pay the claim was for five 
years, so until October 2011. L&G stopped paying the claim in August 2010. So the period 
Im looking  at is from August 2010  to October  2011. The main  issue is what, if anything, L&G 
should pay for that period.  This will depend  on whether Mr G was working and if he was, 
what his income for that period was. If it was less than he was earning  in his previous  
insured occupation,  then L&G may need  to pay something. But the burden  is on Mr G to 
show his income during  that period. 
Mr G had previously  said that he was qualified to do many other occupations before his 
claim paid out, including diving. But hes now provided further  explanation  about his diving 
activities. He says he started training to obtain his first diving instructing qualification in July 
2007 (which was after his claim was in payment). He achieved this qualification  in February 
2008, but then crossed over to a different diving organisation  and qualified  to be a diving 
instructor with them in November 2008. He says he started teaching students  in 2009. 
It is perhaps arguable  whether or not being able to dive means that this skill is transferable 
to an occupation.  But on balance, given that Mr G apparently wasnt  qualified  to be a diving 
instructor when the claim  first started, I dont  think L&G can say that this occupation was 
suited to him by way of training, qualifications,  experience etc. He only qualified  to be a 
diving instructor after his claim  was paid. That being  the case, I dont think  L&G should have 
terminated the claim when it did. I think it should have asked Mr G for evidence of his 
earnings so that it could  consider whether he was due partial benefit. But I see that Mr G 
didnt dispute  L&Gs decision to terminate the claim at the time, so it wasnt aware that hed 
only qualified to be a diving instructor after his claim had started.  
Unfortunately, due to the time thats  passed since the claim was terminated,  establishing  
Mr Gs income  at this time has proven to be very difficult. Weve asked Mr G several times 
for any income evidence  he has relating to his diving instructing. But Mr G maintains that he 
wasnt running a business,  and only taught diving as a hobby. He says the students  paid in 
Ref: DRN87827843cash and he doesnt  have any bank statements showing  the cash being deposited, accounts 
or tax returns, and hardly made any profit. 
Ive therefore  considered  the evidence Mr G has provided, to see if its possible to establish 
his earnings from this. 
Mr G has explained that each student he taught  to dive must  have  a diving pack  as part of 
the registration process. Hes provided a spreadsheet with a list of purchased  diving packs 
for 2009 and 2010. He said there were 13 packs purchased over that time, which meant hed 
taught 13 students to dive. He said he charged  €250 per student, so he received a total 
income of €3,250. After deducting his costs for travel, diving packs, bottle fills, annual 
certification and liability insurance,  he says he was left with total profit of €177 over that two 
year period.  He said he hadnt included the cost of the boats, refreshments or the cost of 
buying equipment.  
Ive looked at the prices of diving courses on Mr Gs diving company website and this 
confirms that he charged €250 for a course.  
Mr G says the spreadsheet  of purchased packs is a direct confirmation of all students hes 
trained, as you cant train a student  without one. But Im not persuaded that the spreadsheet 
Mr Gs provided  is sufficient evidence of the number of students  hes taught  to dive.  Ill 
explain why.
When L&G arranged for surveillance to take place in 2010,  the surveillance  operative 
arranged for Mr G to teach him to dive. Although L&G destroyed the surveillance footage, 
the report written by the surveillance operative is still available.  This confirms that the 
operative made arrangements with Mr G in June 2010 to teach him to dive in July 2010. 
However, Ive looked at the spreadsheet of purchased  packs  that Mr G has provided, and 
I see theres no record of a pack purchased in June or July 2010 which would correspond 
with the surveillance  operative arranging for Mr G to teach him to dive.  I therefore question  
what Mr G says about the number of packs  shown on his spreadsheet being confirmation  of 
all the students  hes taught to dive. I assume  the packs  cant  be purchased  by Mr G in 
advance. I say that because there  are various diving packs  available,  depending on the 
diving course chosen. Mr G wouldnt know in advance which  diving course a student  would  
choose (unless it had been pre-booked). 
 
Also, Mr G says he only taught diving  three  months of the year, over the summer. But the 
diving packs are purchased at various  times of the year, including  winter. Mr G says he 
bought them in winter for the following summer, and that diving in that particular part of the 
world isnt a credible option as the water  is freezing. But Ive looked at some  other  diving 
schools on the internet  and I see that cold water  diving does take place in that part of the 
world during the winter. So Im not convinced that Mr G restricted  his diving instructing to the 
summer months, when  the evidence hes provided  shows that diving packs were  purchased  
in the winter as well as summer.
Mr G has also provided invoices  from a company thats supplied him with diving equipment.  I 
see that between  October  2008  and August 2010, he spent over £14,000  on diving 
equipment. Given that Mr G says he received €3,250 (around £2,860)  income  in 2009 and 
2010, I find it strange  that he would spend such a large amount on diving equipment if he 
wasnt running a business  and only taught diving to a handful of students  as a hobby.  
Ref: DRN87827844I also note the suppliers invoices quote Mr Gs companys VAT number, thats registered in 
the country where  he works. Mr G has also provided  some annual invoices sent to him by 
the diving  organisation  that provides him with a license to teach diving.  These quote a 
different VAT number  for his company,  also registered in the country  where he works. I 
assume there are two separate VAT numbers because I understand Mr G had two different 
company names.  
Mr G says he didnt have  a registered company. Im therefore not sure why he would register 
VAT numbers for his company. In the UK, there are rules that require companies to register  
for VAT if they earn over a certain amount. They  must also report  the VAT theyve charged 
and paid to the UK tax authority (HM Revenue and Customs). I would assume  that similar 
rules apply in the country where Mr Gs company was registered for VAT.
The invoices that quote Mr Gs companys VAT number go back as far as October 2008. So 
it seems Mr Gs company was registered  for VAT at this time (and perhaps before). If Mr G 
was simply teaching diving as a hobby  to a very small  number  of students and didnt expect 
to make a profit, it seems odd that he would register his company for VAT. As he was 
registered for VAT,  Id expect him to be able to evidence  his VAT returns, but he hasnt done 
this.
Overall, whilst I think Mr G was potentially entitled  to partial benefit between the date the 
claim stopped in August 2010  and the end of the five year claim term in October 2011, its 
not reasonable for me to require L&G to make a partial benefit payment when Mr G hasnt 
been able to evidence his earnings. I cant simply choose a figure  without evidence  to 
support it. If Mr G wants me to award  him partial  benefit, he will need to provide  me with 
evidence such as fully audited accounts,  VAT returns and bank statements.
I should also point  out, however, that if Mr G were  able to provide me with sufficient 
evidence of his earnings, then any award  I may make would need to take into account his 
earnings from diving instructing  in 2009 and 2010. Thats because he was still receiving full 
benefit under the policy up to August 2010, but it seems Mr G should  have instead been 
receiving partial benefit from at least January  2009 to take into account his earnings  from 
that time.
I concluded that I intended  to uphold the complaint, and whilst I accepted there  was potential 
for L&G to make payment under the policy, I didnt  intend to award compensation as there 
wasnt enough information for me to decide  what should be paid. 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  evidence or comments they wished  to 
make. 
Mr G provided  a detailed  response. Ive summarised below what I consider to be the main  
points.
In terminating  the claim, L&G was only focused  on considering  his physical injuries.  
However, post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is the reason hes unable  to work in 
his previous occupation.
L&G previously alleged that he committed benefit fraud, however this was found  not 
to be the case.  He says L&G froze his bank account when it thought  he was guilty of 
benefit fraud, and I havent addressed this.
L&G didnt ask him for evidence of his income, and it should have done. 
Ref: DRN87827845Hes concerned that this service  is acting on behalf of L&G by applying  the partial 
benefit option. He thinks this shows a bias towards L&G by carrying  out an 
investigation on its behalf. 
Hes not a PADI instructor,  but a BSAC instructor. He says experienced PADI  
instructors earn around £13,000 - £18,500, and even  if he were earning  this level of 
income, it wouldnt exceed the £38,000  threshold that his income would  need  to 
reach before L&G would be able to reduce the benefit payments. 
He says L&G has had in its possession his medical records which refer to him being 
Type 1 diabetic  and having  a heart  condition. He says he only saw these in 2018  and 
had previously been unaware  he had these conditions. He goes on to explain that 
hes found information on the internet which advises against diving with either of 
these conditions. He says if hed known about them,  he wouldnt have started diving. 
He says despite knowing about  these  conditions, L&G allowed him to carry on diving 
and put his life at real risk. 
Hes provided information  relating  to the VAT numbers that were on various invoices, 
and a letter  from his lawyer which gives an explanation of the companies  hes been 
involved with.
L&G didnt obtain a court order to carry out its investigation of him. He thinks the 
legality of its action  is in question. 
He says the student packs were bought in advance. He explains he usually 
purchased several at a time when BSAC (the UK National  Governing  Body  for scuba  
diving) had a special offer at the time. He says he spent the £14,000  Id referred  to in 
my provisional decision on diving equipment to fund his hobby and this was funded  
from the settlement  he received  from his previous employer.  
Hes provided some bank statements.
Hes provided some information from BSAC.
L&G responded with the following:
It thinks the date when Mr G was able to perform the role of diving instructor  is 
irrelevant. And the only relevance is that he was doing this role, and was trained and 
capable of doing the role. It remains of the opinion it was right to terminate benefit on 
the claim.
It says partial payment isnt warranted due to Mr Gs lack of credible evidence  to 
support his diving  activities and his subjective  reporting of his capabilities and the 
clear inconsistencies.
It has provided a video of Mr G which had been  made whilst the claim was in 
payment. This video  is of Mr G referring to himself training people in business  
management. L&G thinks this shows Mr G was capable of working in a role to which  
he was suited by way of training, education and experience. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As Ive said,  Mr G has provided a detailed  response  to my provisional decision. I dont intend 
to answer every point  hes made, and have therefore focused on the main points. However, I 
would like to reassure him that Ive considered all the information hes provided and the 
comments hes made before making  this decision. 
Ref: DRN87827846Mr G says that in terminating  the claim,  L&G was only focused on considering his physical 
abilities. However, he says PTSD is the reason he cant work. 
The medical evidence  says that Mr G was unable  to work in his previous  role because of a 
combination of his psychological and physical injuries. L&G did focus  on Mr Gs physical 
abilities when terminating the claim. It says it had surveillance footage of him teaching one of 
its operatives how to dive, and it thought the physical abilities he displayed  in that footage  
directly contrasted  with his stated physical limitations at the time. However, as Mr G knows, 
L&G wasnt  able to provide me with a copy of this surveillance footage,  so I havent taken it 
into account in my decision, and Ive already said I think  L&G shouldnt  have  terminated  the 
claim when  it did. 
Mr G says L&G thought  hed committed benefit fraud, but despite  investigations, this was 
found not to be the case. He also says L&G froze his bank account, despite L&G denying 
this and wants me to address it. 
Any concerns L&G may have  had about  benefit  fraud werent relevant to its decision  to 
terminate the claim, so I didnt take any of it into account when considering Mr Gs complaint. 
As Mr G points  out, L&G denies freezing  his access to his bank account, and I havent seen 
any evidence to confirm  that it did this. 
Mr G says L&G didnt ask him for evidence of his income, and it should have done.
As Mr G is aware, L&G terminated  the claim because it thought he was capable of working  
in another occupation. As I explained  in my provision  decision, the policy  allows for partial 
benefit to be paid if Mr G has taken up another occupation but as a result  of his illness,  has 
suffered a loss of earnings compared  to when he was following his own occupation. As Mr G 
took up diving instructing  after stopping  work  in his previous occupation, I found that L&G 
shouldnt have terminated the claim when  it did and should have considered  a partial  benefit  
payment instead.  Ive therefore upheld this aspect of Mr Gs complaint, but as Ive explained, 
I havent seen  enough evidence of his income in order  to require L&G to make a partial  
benefit payment.  
Mr Gs concerned that this service  is acting on L&Gs behalf by applying  the partial benefit 
option. He thinks  this shows a bias towards  L&G. 
I would like to reassure  Mr G that this service is impartial. He asked us to consider his 
complaint about  L&G terminating his claim. In considering that complaint,  I noticed  that L&G 
should have applied the partial benefit  clause  to the claim.  I therefore  upheld Mr Gs 
complaint and agreed that L&G shouldnt have terminated the claim. 
Mr G explains  hes not a PADI instructor,  but is a BSAC instructor. He says experienced 
PADI instructors earn around £13,000  - £18,500, and even if he were  earning this level of 
income, it wouldnt exceed the £38,000  threshold that his income would  need  to reach 
before L&G would be able to reduce the benefit  payments.  
Its unclear why Mr Gs diving centre was advertised  on websites as being both a BSAC  
diving school and PADI centre  if he isnt a PADI instructor. In any event, I assume the 
£38,000 to which Mr G refers is the 50% benefit  payment  L&G was making to him before it 
terminated his claim.  I should explain that any income he was receiving from teaching 
students to dive wouldnt need to exceed the 50% benefit amount in order  for L&G to reduce 
the benefit payments. Instead,  the 50% benefit payment would be reduced  by his income 
Ref: DRN87827847from diving  instructing, so that the maximum he received  overall would be 50% of his 
previous salary. 
Its for that reason that Ive repeatedly asked Mr G to provide evidence of his income,  so that 
I can calculate by how much his benefit  payment should be reduced.  As I pointed out in my 
provisional decision, Mr G had been  earning  money from teaching  students to dive from at 
least January 2009 (and perhaps before)  but had been in receipt of full benefit  under the 
policy until August 2010.  Therefore, partial benefit  should have been paid from at least  
January 2009  rather than full benefit,  but without evidence of his earnings from this time, I 
cant say what the benefit payment should  have been.
Mr G says L&G had his medical records in its possession which  referred to him having Type  
1 diabetes and a heart condition. He says he only saw these in 2018, and wasnt  aware until 
2016 or 2017 that he had diabetes. He doesnt say when he found out about his heart  
condition. He thinks L&G ought to have realised  that it was dangerous for him to continue 
diving with the conditions. As L&G allowed him to continue diving, he thinks  this put his life at 
risk. 
L&G has provided information from 2006 that shows Mr G was aware he had diabetes  at 
that time.  So Im not sure why he says he didnt know about this condition  until 2016/2017. In 
any event, L&G wasnt to know  if Mr Gs medical  practitioners hadnt made him aware of his 
medical conditions.  I dont agree with Mr G that L&G ought  to have known that he shouldnt 
have been diving with those particular  conditions. I dont  find L&G did anything wrong here. 
Mr G has provided  information relating to the VAT numbers that I referred  to in my 
provisional decision. Hes also provided  some helpful information from his lawyer regarding 
his companies. 
In my provisional decision I noted  that some invoices Mr G had provided quoted two different 
VAT numbers (one ending in 02 and the other  ending in 03), registered in the country where 
he taught diving.  
Mr G has explained that the VAT number ending in 03 was a registered  company that 
allowed him to buy and sell land, but it had nothing to do with diving. He says (and his lawyer 
confirms) that the VAT number ending in 02 had nothing to do with him and he doesnt know 
why it was on the invoices. He thinks this was an administrative error. 
Mr Gs lawyer says that Mr G is the owner of four registered companies,  none of which are 
relevant to this complaint. Mr G has also provided me with company accounts,  though  they 
arent in English. 
I accept Mr G and his lawyers explanations  regarding the VAT numbers  and the companies 
theyve referred to.
Mr G says L&G didnt obtain  a court order to carry out its investigation in the country where 
he taught diving.  He thinks this was illegal.  
Insurance companies in the UK are able to carry out investigations into claims, and that 
includes surveillance. I cant comment on the legality of this in the country in which Mr G 
taught diving.  If he wishes to take the matter further Mr G would need to obtain legal advice 
about the matter  in that particular country.
Ref: DRN87827848Mr G says the student packs referred to in my provisional decision were purchased in 
advance. He says he usually bought several at the same  time when there  was a special offer 
on. And he spent  £14,000 on diving equipment to fund his hobby  and because  to do a 
limited amount of teaching, he would need a certain amount of equipment.  
Mr G has previously provided me with a spreadsheet hes created of the student packs he 
says he purchased. Hes also provided  me with some invoices from the company that 
provides the packs. But the invoices only reflect the number of student packs  purchased  in 
three months spanning a three  year period. So even if I were to accept Mr Gs explanation 
that he purchased  student packs in advance, I dont know if any other  packs  were purchased 
in the other  months. I therefore  still dont think Mr G has shown his spreadsheet of 
purchased packs is sufficient evidence of all the students hes taught  to dive. 
Mr G has provided  me with some  bank statements. He says theyre for the period 2009 to 
the present and show he wasnt  receiving an income. Ive looked at the statements but I can 
only see transactions from January 2009 to December 2010. I accept there dont seem to be 
many transactions, but the statements  arent in English  so I dont know  what they relate to. 
Finally, Mr G has provided  a letter from BSAC. This says that Mr G is a qualified  BSAC  
instructor and BSAC instructors usually only charge for expenses  and are not normally set 
up as a commercial business model.  
conclusion
In my provisional decision,  I concluded  that L&G shouldnt have terminated Mr Gs claim as I 
thought he was entitled to partial benefit. 
L&G thinks  the date when Mr G was able to perform  the role of diving  instructor  is irrelevant. 
And the only relevance is that he was doing this role, and was trained and capable of doing 
the role. I disagree. The policy terms say benefit would be paid if the member was 
incapacitated and unable to undertake a suited  occupation, and was not engaged  in any 
other occupation other than one which gives rise to partial benefit.  When  the claim started  to 
be paid in October 2006 (after the end of the waiting  period) Mr G wasnt qualified to train 
people to dive. That qualification was obtained after the claim was in payment. 
The policy allows  for partial benefit to be paid if after the benefit accrual date, a disabled 
member takes up another occupation, but as a direct result of the illness giving  rise to the 
incapacity, suffers a loss of earnings compared  to when he was following his own 
occupation. If that happened, then partial  benefit would be payable.  The benefit accrual date 
is the day immediately  following  the last day of the waiting period (the period  between the 
member stopping work and the claim payment starting). 
It is therefore relevant  when Mr G was able to perform the role of diving instructor, because 
he only became suited to this role after the benefit  accrual date and therefore partial benefit 
would be payable. If Mr G had been  suited to this occupation and able to carry it out before 
the benefit accrual date, then he wouldnt have been incapacitated and I probably would 
have agreed with L&Gs termination  of the claim. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that Mr G was entitled to partial  benefit.
Ref: DRN87827849Mr G wants me to accept that teaching  diving was merely a hobby.  I find it difficult to accept 
that when his online profile suggests it was more than a mere hobby.  He had his own 
website for his dive centre,  and also advertised  the dive centre  on other  websites. One such  
website refers to the dive centre operating out of three separate  locations,  and another  
refers to his dive centre having three  instructors working there.  This doesnt  seem like one 
person teaching the occasional tourist how to dive. 
However, regardless of whether or not Mr G was teaching  diving  as a hobby or as a source 
of income, its still the case  that he taught people  to dive in exchange for money. That means  
he was receiving an income and this needs  to be taken into account. 
Mr G has confirmed he would charge €250 to teach someone to dive.  He says that over 
2009 and 2010 he earned €3,250.  Whilst Ive accepted he charged  €250 per student, as Ive 
explained, the evidence hes provided  me relating to student  packs isnt enough for me to 
say with any certainty how many students he taught and therefore that he only received 
€3,250 income.  It wouldnt be fair for me to require  L&G to pay partial benefit based on that 
amount without evidence supporting it. 
I also cant be sure when  Mr G started teaching people to dive.  Mr G says this was after 
January 2009.  But information from BSAC is that a diving centre  was first registered in April 
2008 and its records  show there  were  two proprietors of the centre,  one of which  was Mr G. I 
know Mr G says he wasnt involved with that particular  diving  centre and it is run by a friend, 
but its also the case that invoices hes provided from BSAC  relating  to the student packs 
quote the name of that dive centre.
Ive considered whether to estimate the amount of income Mr G may have received from 
teaching people to dive and calculate the partial  benefit on that basis.  But given that I dont 
know when he started  teaching people to dive, and I also dont know  how many students he 
had, it would be difficult for me to choose an appropriate figure. 
Overall, I think that Mr G probably was due some partial benefit between the date the claim 
terminated in August  2010 and the date cover was due to end in October  2011.  However,  its 
also the case that Mr G owes L&G a refund of some of the benefit  it paid him between the 
date he started teaching people to dive and the date the claim was terminated.  
Without sufficient evidence for me to base  any calculations  on, I think  the fairest  outcome is 
that the outstanding payments owed by both parties  to each other  should  effectively cancel 
each other  out. 
L&G has provided a video of Mr G which had been made whilst the claim was in payment. 
The video referred to him training people  in business management. It thinks this shows he 
could work  in a suited  occupation.
L&G terminated the claim because it thought Mr G was able to carry out the occupation of a 
diving instructor,  not because it thought he could train people  in business management. It 
would be unfair  for L&G to try and change the reason for the claim termination at this late 
stage. I therefore havent  taken the video into account, but even if I were  to do so, I would 
say this video  on its own isnt enough evidence  to say Mr G could  work  in a suited 
occupation and that his claim should have been terminated.  
Ref: DRN878278410my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. However, I dont require  L&G to pay any 
compensation as there isnt enough information  for me to decide what should be paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8782784