K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that J & M Insurance Services (UK) Limited  didnt return  the money hed 
paid it for a motor insurance policy after he later decided not to renew it.
background
Mr W paid £1,706.03 to J & M on 1 February 2018  to renew a policy  that was due to start on 
12 February 2018. Three days before the renewal  date, Mr K contacted  J & M by phone,  
email and letter to say hed found  other  insurance,  so he didnt want  to go ahead with the 
renewal. He says an adviser told him during the call that a refund would be processed. 
By October  2018  Mr K still hadnt received  a refund, so he complained  to J & M. It said the 
money was passed  to the insurer, which had gone  into liquidation. It said Mr W would have  
to get his money back through the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). It 
said it had contacted Mr W about  the refund in February 2018  by email and had left two 
voicemail messages.  It said it didnt  have Mr Ws card details to refund the money  at the time 
hed asked for it. And the insurer then went bankrupt in May 2018
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ws complaint. He thought J & M had made  
reasonable attempts to contact Mr W. He said Mr W would be able to get his money back 
through the FSCS. Mr W said hed paid J & M and had no contract with the insurer, so he 
thought J & M should  have  recovered the money  for him as requested it in February 2018. 
He thought it was still responsible for getting  the money back. He said he hadnt got an email 
or voicemail  messages from J & M. But it was able to provide a copy of the email  sent to him 
on 12 February 2018 to say the refund would be given within  14 days. It also provided a 
screenshot that showed an advisor  called Mr W on 23 February 2018 and spoke to him.
Mr W asked for a review of his complaint by an ombudsman. I issued a provisional  decision 
upholding his case in part as follows:
Mr W paid a substantial sum for the policy up front to J & M. When  he changed his mind 
about the renewal, he made  sure J & M was aware  of that by contacting it using several  
forms of communication . 
J & Ms email  to Mr W in reply on 12 February  2018  said the existing policy  lapsed  that day, 
and hed get a refund within two weeks. As it doesnt retain consumers  card details, it isnt 
clear why J & M didnt invite Mr W to contact it to provide those details then. We asked J & M 
why it hadnt done that, but it didnt  respond  to the question. Mr W says he didnt get the 
email anyway, but if he had, it would have made  no difference to the outcome. He wasnt  
asked by email to contact  J & M - even though it was essential for him to do so. 
J & M has shown that it contacted Mr W by phone on 23 February  2018.  On the screenshot, 
a note says an adviser  spoke to him. I dont  think thats likely   Mr W says there  was no call, 
and J & M has told us that it had to leave a voicemail message for Mr W. Either way, I think  
J & M has shown that it tried to contact  Mr W on that date. It cant  show that it called Mr W 
on 16 February 2018, so the only evidence of attempted contact with him is the email plus 
one telephone call. 
I think its odd that Mr W didnt  contact J & M between  February  and October 2018 to chase 
the refund  if he hadnt heard from it. But I think the onus was on J & M to do more to contact 
Mr W, given that he was due a large  sum of money back from it. When he didnt reply  to the 
email or the voicemail, I think it could have sent him a letter,  another email, or made more 
Ref: DRN84067612calls. I would then have said it had acted reasonably - whether or not Mr W got the letter or 
the further email  / calls.  
I think J & M should pay Mr W compensation for poor service.  Had it been more  persistent, I 
think its more likely  than not that it would have  managed to contact him before May 2018,  
when the insurer  was still trading. And I think it should definitely have contacted him again as 
soon as it heard abut the insurers bankruptcy. Mr W could then have begun the process of 
getting his money  back months earlier than he did.
Taking everything into account,  I think it would be reasonable for J & M to pay Mr W £150 
compensation for distress and inconvenience .  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. J & M didnt comment. Mr W said 
hed never  been  asked  for card details  by J & M. He asked why I believed  J & M had called 
him on 23 February 2018. He said if it had called him hed have provided his card details 
straight away. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I think Mr W may have  misunderstood what I said in the provisional decision. I agree that 
J & M should have  contacted him to get his card details, which  is what  I said in it.
J & Ms records show that an advisor made a call to Mr W on 23 February 2018. It provided 
evidence of that to us, so Im not able to disregard it. The record says spoke to client. But I 
said I didnt think it was likely that the advisor  had spoken to Mr W. If she had, Im sure he 
would have given  her his card details. J & M may have left a message for Mr W on his 
phone, and it wouldnt have been  in his interests to ignore it. So I dont think Mr W ever 
heard the message, for whatever reason. It isnt the case that I accept  what  J & M said and 
dont believe  Mr W, as hes suggested. And I think I made it clear in the provisional decision 
that I thought J & M should have done  more to contact him. 
J & M passed the money Mr W paid it for the policy  on to the insurer. Mr W seems to think 
he wont get it back through  the FSCS as he didnt actually have a policy.  But I dont think 
thats the case, as theres evidence of the transfer  to the insurer from J & M. Meanwhile, I 
remain of the view that J & M should pay Mr W £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require J & M Insurance Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mr W £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8406761