K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains Phoenix Life Limited transferred  her pension  to a cash fund and didnt  
explain this to her. As a result, her pension  hasnt increased in value for a number of years.
background
Mrs M has a pension  with Phoenix  Life. In 2013  she reached the age of 60, which was her 
original chosen  retirement  age. Phoenix Life wrote to her to explain her options But she 
chose to defer her retirement at this time for a year. 
Phoenix Life contacted  Mrs M again in January 2014 in writing  to explain her new retirement  
date was approaching. It explained that if Mrs M didnt get in touch, it would move her 
pension into a cash fund.  Mrs M says she didnt receive this letter. Phoenix Life wrote  to 
Mrs M again  in February 2014 to reminder her about  the approaching  retirement  date. 
Phoenix Life says Mrs M called and acknowledged  receiving  this letter.
Mrs M got in touch with Phoenix Life again in April 2014 and said she wanted to take her 
pension as a lump sum as legislation had recently changed. Phoenix Life sent Mrs M the 
retirement pack again. Phoenix  Life didnt hear back from Mrs M. Her pension was 
transferred into a cash fund, and remained  this way.
In April 2018 Mrs M contacted Phoenix Life to say she wanted to take the benefits from her 
policy. At this time she complained that the policy hadnt increased in value and had been 
transferred into a cash fund.
Phoenix Life looked into Mrs Ms complaint. It said it had made Mrs M aware  what  would 
happen if she didnt  take any action, and it was right to transfer her pension  to the cash fund. 
It said annual statements sent to Mrs M shouldve made her aware what  had happened to 
her pension. Phoenix Life agreed  Mrs M had been  told an incorrect  fund value during a 
conversation in April 2018. And it offered £100  compensation for this mistake.
Unhappy with this response,  Mrs M referred the complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  He thought  Phoenix Life had made it clear that the 
pension would be transferred to a cash fund if Mrs M didnt take any further  action. He also 
thought that the statements Mrs M received after this happened clearly showed  it was held in 
a cash fund.
Mrs M didnt  agree. She said the statements were misleading, and she didnt think  it was fair 
to say she shouldve  noticed the pension fund wasnt  growing from 2014.  She asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by and ombudsman, so its been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the opinion 
our investigator reached. Ill explain why.
When Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs M in 2013, it gave her a number  of options of what  she 
could do as shed  reached her chosen  retirement date. This letter also explained that if 
Mrs M didnt  do anything  further, it would transfer  her pension to a cash fund.  Mrs M 
Ref: DRN87302172returned a form to Phoenix Life and chose to delay taking her pension until her 61st birthday. 
She also chose not to transfer the pension to a cash fund at this time.
I can see Phoenix Life wrote to Mrs M in January  2014. It again explained that Mrs Ms 
expected retirement  age was approaching, and set out all of her options. This letter 
explained again that if Mrs M didnt take any further action, her pension  would be transferred 
to a cash fund. A reminder was sent to her in February 2014 as Phoenix Life hadnt  heard 
from Mrs M. Mrs M spoke  with Phoenix  Life in April 2014 and the retirement pack  was sent 
again. Mrs M didnt take any further  action. Based on all of this, I think Phoenix  Life 
explained in its retirement pack what would happen  if Mrs M didnt take any further action. 
And because it didnt hear from Mrs M, it was right to transfer her pension  to a cash  fund.
Mrs M has said she didnt receive a number of letters and packs  sent to her by Phoenix Life. 
She says she has problems because of her address. Phoenix Life has confirmed it sent the 
documents to her correct address, and I cant hold it responsible  if letters dont reach Mrs M. 
I also note that on some  occasions Mrs M got in touch with Phoenix Life very soon after the 
packs were sent. And in one phone call she was calling in response  to a letter. This indicates 
that she did receive some correspondence from Phoenix Life, and I think  its likely  she 
received the other correspondence it sent,  although  I accept she may not remember  this.
Ive looked at the pension  statements  sent annually to Mrs M. Before 2014, they showed her 
pension was invested in with profits funds. In 2014,  this changed to showing as nothing  in 
with profits  funds and all of her pension in a deposit  fund.  Each subsequent year showed 
just a deposit fund with her full pension value in it. Whilst  these statements may make 
reference in points to with profits funds,  I think they are clear  in explaining Mrs Ms pension  
isnt held in a with profits fund from 2014. Based on this, I think Mrs M should reasonably 
have known her pension fund had changed. And had she not been expecting  this, I wouldve 
expected her to raise  this at the time.
Mrs M has said she prefers verbal communication, and Phoenix Life shouldve  told her that 
her pension had been transferred to a cash fund during one of the phone  conversations she 
had with it. I understand why Mrs M feels this way. But I cant see Mrs M ever told Phoenix 
she would  prefer information like this to be provided over the phone. I agree Phoenix Life 
couldve told Mrs M what had happened  to her pension during their phone  conversations, 
but, as Ive said, I think the information  it provided  by post was clear  enough,  so I dont think  
it was required to.
Considering everything  I have, I think Phoenix  Life did enough to make Mrs M aware of the 
fact that her pension had been transferred to a cash fund. The £100 its paid her for giving 
her incorrect  information  is fair in the circumstances, and Im not going to ask it to do 
anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Ref: DRN87302173Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8730217