K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the way Creation Financial Services Limited dealt with him when he 
called to discuss a reward scheme  on his credit  card. 
background
Mr G has a Creation credit card thats branded as an airline. Card  holders earn points when 
they spend on the card. The points  can be used  for flights and offers  with the airline. On 
18 July 2018 Mr G called Creation and asked about the points  he was meant to be receiving. 
The call handler referred Mr G to the airline and gave him a phone  number to call. 
Mr G called Creation back around  an hour later and asked to speak with a manager. When 
one wasnt available  Mr G raised a complaint. 
There was a delay  in responding to Mr Gs complaint and Creation  didnt  respond  until 
14 November 2018. Creation said it didnt  have access  to information about reward  points 
and that it had followed the right process  when  it referred Mr G to the airline.  Creation also 
said that it had tried to get Mr G the information by calling the airline for him. Creation called 
back but Mr G didnt  answer. 
Mr G asked our service  to consider his complaint and an investigator  looked at what  had 
happened. The investigator  thought Creation had dealt with the complaint fairly so didnt  ask 
it to do anything else. Mr G didnt agree with the investigator so his complaints been  passed 
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr G is upset. Hes tried to get information that should be reasonably  
straight forward to obtain. And I understand why hes contacted Creation after trying to get 
the information from the airline. 
But I have to be fair to both sides and whilst  I appreciate Mr Gs frustration, Im only looking 
at Creations actions here. I asked  the investigator  to go back to Creation for some additional 
information about its systems and the information  it has available.  Creations  confirmed it 
doesnt share systems  with the airline and has no way to tell how many points a card holder  
has accrued. I understand why Mr G was asking for information about  his points but Im 
satisfied that Creation  didnt have that information,  which is why it referred him to the airline. 
Ive listened to both Mr Gs calls on 18 July 2018.  I understand  Mr G wanted to get 
information about his points hed earned but experienced  problems when  he called the 
airline. I dont doubt what Mr G told Creation about the problems  he had when speaking to 
the airline. But, as Ive said above,  Creation didnt have access  to the information Mr G 
wanted. 
Ref: DRN81020582In his response to the investigator, Mr G said his credit card is branded  by the airline. I 
appreciate the credit  card carries the airlines  brand but thats because  it can be used  to 
collect points for its reward scheme. But the credit card itself is operated and run by 
Creation. 
Mr G asked to speak  with a manager when  he called back  on 18 July 2018 but one wasnt 
available. I can hear how frustrated Mr G was but as there wasnt  a manager available for 
him to talk to I think Creations offer to have one call him back  was fair. After Mr Gs call 
Creation took the step of contacting the airline to ask for information. It was given a number  
and email address  Mr G could use to discuss his points with and tried to call him the 
following day to pass that information on. But there  wasnt an answer. The investigators also 
forwarded the contact details to Mr G. 
I can see Mr G felt somewhat caught  between  two businesses  when  trying  to find out how 
many points he had. But Im satisfied Creation didnt have details of his points and could only 
refer him back to the airline when he called.  I thought the calls were handled professionally 
and havent found evidence of poor service.  As a result,  Im not telling Creation to take any 
further action  to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8102058