K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Ms W says Bank of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax  mis-sold her the PPI. 
Ms W bought a Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage TMPP can be 
split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Ms W has complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale of the 
PPI cover only.  
Ms W took out a further TMPP policy in 2005 but it did not include PPI so I have not 
considered it in this decision.
Im aware Ms W also has also made a complaint about a PPI policy  that was sold to her in 
1999, but this has been  dealt with separately  so I havent addressed it here.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Ms W aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. Ms W has told us she was led to believe the policy  was 
compulsory. I dont  know for certain what was said when the policy was sold, and there  isnt 
much paperwork  available, but from what we know about how Halifax  sold this type of policy 
at the time I think its likely Halifax made Ms W aware the PPI was optional, and she chose  
to take it out, although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Ms W has told us that she would have received sick pay at the time she took the PPI and 
had savings or insurance that could have  helped. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to and for longer than Ms Ws sick pay and other means. Based on what  Ive seen 
of Ms Ws circumstances at the time she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover. So I think  the policy  was 
right for her.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Ms W has said, including  that she was pressured to take the 
PPI. While I cant be certain what was said when the PPI was sold to Ms W, pressure can be 
subjective so Id need persuasive evidence to uphold this complaint on this basis, which  I 
havent seen.  So overall, I havent  seen enough  to make me think  Halifax  put pressure on 
Ms W to take the policy.
Ref: DRN86236272This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund the cost of 
the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8623627