K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Paragon Bank Plc gave misleading information when their fixed  
rate bond  came to an end.
background
Mr and Mrs W held a fixed rate bond  with Paragon that was due to mature on 
11 February 2018.
Paragon sent Mr and Mrs W an email on 10 January 2018. This email  confirmed that the 
fixed rate on their account was coming  to an end and that Paragon was offering guaranteed  
rates if they chose  to re-invest. The email said If our rates  increase by the time your fixed  
rate ends, youll benefit from the improved rate on your chosen  account. Dont worry, if our 
interest rates drop between now and the end of your fixed rate, we will honour  your 
guaranteed rate. And it went on to direct Mr and Mrs W to log in to their account online to 
view the re-investment options available to them. Mr and Mrs W reinvested  their funds with 
Paragon in a new fixed rate bond.
In September  2018 Mr and Mrs W contacted Paragon to say that they had noticed Paragon  
was now offering a higher interest rate but the rate on their account had not increased.  
Mr and Mrs W had understood  from the email  on 10 January 2018 that after re-investing,  
they would  still benefit from any interest rate increases. 
Paragon replied saying  that the mention of continuing to benefit from increased  rates,  and 
being protected from rates falling,  only applied until their original fixed rate expired, on 
11 February 2018. From that point the rate on their new account was fixed and wouldnt 
change.
Mr and Mrs W complained to Paragon saying that this wasnt  what  theyd understood when 
they re-invested. They thought Paragon had given them misleading information. Paragon  
didnt think it had done anything wrong  so Mr and Mrs W asked us to look into the complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He said that while  the email on 
10 January 2018  couldve  been worded  more  clearly he felt it did indicate  it was referring to 
Mr and Mrs Ws existing  account. He also thought the other information that wouldve been 
seen by Mr and Mrs W prior to choosing to renew made it clear that the rate would then be 
fixed and they wouldnt benefit from any further  increases. So as a result he didnt think 
Paragon had made an error. 
Mr and Mrs W disagreed.  They still felt that the information was misleading.  As 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree  with our adjudicators findings the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The issue  here stems from Mr and Mrs Ws interpretation of the email that Paragon sent 
them before their previous bond  matured.  
Ref: DRN84250032The email  starts by saying  the fixed rate on your account is coming to an end. I think this 
sets out that when referring to fixed rate the email  is talking about the existing product. It 
goes on to say Paragon is offering guaranteed rates if Mr and Mrs W re-invest. These 
guaranteed rates would  be on the new product. And the email doesnt  at any point refer to 
these guaranteed rates as fixed. So I think its clear, in the context of this email, the mention 
of fixed rates  relates to the existing account  and the guaranteed rates refer to any new 
account Mr and Mrs W chose to reinvest in. When talking about increases or decreases in 
interest rates the email  talks about protection against this applying until the end of the fixed  
rate. So given what Ive said about  the references  to fixed rates I think  it is clear  this meant 
until 11 February 2018, when the existing account matured.
I can understand why the misunderstanding occurred. But while this is unfortunate, and the 
email could have  been worded differently, I dont think Paragon has given misleading 
information. And I think the email does indicate  that the guarantee relates to the existing 
account rather than the new one Mr and Mrs W were reinvesting in. 
Paragon has provided us with the terms and conditions of the bond which it says were  
provided to Mr and Mrs W, as part of the online application. In the summary of information 
there is a question Can Paragon Bank change the interest rate? with the answer  No. The 
interest rate is fixed. So based  on what Ive seen I think  that overall the information 
provided by Paragon was clear  that, after reinvestment, the interest rate on Mr and Mrs Ws 
account would not change.
Indeed in response to the adjudicators opinion Mr and Mrs W acknowledged that they knew 
they were getting  a fixed rate. And Mr and Mrs W got the account they requested  when they 
re-invested  a two year fixed savings bond  paying  2.05% AER. So I dont think  Paragon has 
done anything  wrong here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425003