K820x#14complaint
Miss W has a motor  insurance policy with Aviva  Insurance Limited.  She complains that it 
provided her with poor service after she was involved in an accident.    
background
The other driver involved in the accident reported it to Aviva, as it was also his insurer.  He 
said Miss W had reversed  her car into his stationary vehicle in a car park. When Aviva asked 
Miss W about  it she said both cars were  reversing at the time. In her view, the other driver 
had driven into her car. She said there was CCTV coverage of the car park. The advisor  said 
hed update Miss W after he heard from the other drivers claims handler. 
Miss W heard nothing further  for eight  weeks. Aviva then told her the incident was going to 
be settled with liability split 50:50 between the drivers. Miss W said the other driver had 
initially made a false  claim, which should be investigated. She queried why CCTV footage  
hadnt been sought and why she wasnt told about that. And she wasnt happy  that her no 
claims discount (NCD) was reduced from over 10 years to three  years. 
Miss W said she wanted to make a formal  complaint. Avivas  advisor  said shed logged a 
complaint, but had rejected it, as she thought  both parties were to blame  for the accident. 
Miss W again  asked for a formal complaint to be logged. At that point she was offered £30 
compensation. She said that wasnt enough, given the NCD reduction and the fact that she 
thought Avivas advisors had been rude. She said they had also often got her title wrong. 
Aviva then dealt with her complaint formally. It offered Miss W £75 compensation for not 
giving her clearer advice  about the likely  settlement and the use of CCTV footage. 
As Miss W remained  unhappy, one of our investigators considered her complaint. He 
thought Aviva should have sought  the CCTV footage and should have updated Miss W 
during the eight weeks she had no contact from it. He didnt think  the advisors  were  rude,  but 
he noted that they got Miss Ws title wrong  twice. And she had to ask three  times  to make a 
formal complaint. Miss W told us that Aviva hadnt advised her of the claims process  - 
although she didnt  raise that as part of her initial complaint.  The investigator thought she 
wasnt adversely affected by that, as she knew how to claim anyway. As he thought  Aviva  
could have offered  better service overall,  he said it should pay Miss W a further £175.
Aviva asked for a review of the complaint  by an ombudsman.  I issued  a provisional decision 
as follows:
In terms of the CCTV coverage, as Miss W didnt report the incident, it was over two weeks 
after it took place  on 15 July 2018 before Aviva  was able to contact her about it. So even at 
that point, the footage may well not have been available.  And even if it was, it may not have 
been clear - or it may not have covered the area where the incident  took place. 
Miss W told Aviva the other drivers  account wasnt correct. She said both cars were  moving  
and confirmed when  asked by Aviva that both were  reversing at the time. It seems  the 
advisor didnt think  CCTV  coverage   if available  would be needed in deciding  how liability  
should be settled,  as both cars were reversing. He contacted the other drivers claims 
handler to challenge his account. Aviva told us it didnt accept the other  drivers  version  of 
events, and no other insurer was involved in the liability decision.     
Ref: DRN85175722Under the policy, Aviva has the right to settle any claim  as it sees  fit. But it has to act 
reasonably in doing so. Aviva told Miss W about its split liability decision on 1 October 2018. 
At that point, she repeated that both cars were reversing and that the other car drove into 
her car. Based on what she said, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to continue  to consider 
that each car had reversed into the other, so both drivers were at fault.
Later on, Miss W clarified her earlier account.  She told Aviva the CCTV footage would have 
shown her car was already in the lane between the rows of parked cars when the other 
driver began  to reverse his car. Im not sure that would  have made a difference, as Miss W 
also still said both cars were reversing when the impact happened.  But Aviva  wasnt told 
about this part of her account until long after any CCTV footage  would have been deleted.  
I think the advisor should have told Miss W when its likely that CCTV coverage will be 
viewed - and its limitations.  I also think he should have told her how insurers usually deal 
with incidents  where  two cars are reversing. But I dont  think  Avivas decision not to seek 
possible CCTV evidence at the relevant time had an adverse impact  on Miss W. In my 
opinion, the only way she may have escaped liability would  have been  if she could have 
shown her car was stationary at the time of the impact. From what she initially  told Aviva,  I 
dont think it had any reason to think  that was the case.
Miss W said she thought Aviva should  have done something about what she regarded  as the 
other drivers  false  claim. But I think it was reasonable for Aviva to say there wasnt  a false 
claim. The other driver  correctly reported an incident in which his car was damaged.  Aviva  
didnt accept the details he gave of how it happened, so it settled  the claim partially against 
him. Im not sure what else Aviva could have  done  in the circumstances.               
Miss W thought she should have  been updated by Aviva during  the eight weeks  it took 
before she was told about the outcome of the claim.  I dont think  was necessary for Aviva to 
give regular updates during that period, as it seems  there was nothing to report. But it was a 
long time for Miss W to wait without any contact  at all from it. So I think Avivas  
communication could  have been  better, although it didnt have an impact  on the outcome. 
The correspondence Ive seen doesnt  show that Avivas advisors were rude, in my opinion. 
But from what Ive seen,  Miss W was addressed in emails as Mrs  twice.  That shouldnt  
have happened, but I think  its a minor error   and Aviva apologised for it.
I dont think Miss W realised that Aviva  hoped to deal with her service concerns  informally.  In 
my view, there  was nothing wrong  in it trying to do that, as it was possible the matter  might 
have been brought to a swift and satisfactory conclusion for Miss W. 
I dont think it helped  matters when an advisor  told Miss W that her complaint had been  
logged and rejected. When she queried  that, she was offered £30, but still wasnt  given any 
details of the formal complaints process. I think that may be why Miss W thought the advisor 
was dismissive. At one point, Avivas offer of compensation was increased to £75, and then 
reduced to £30 again, with no explanation.  But it seems that was just an error, and Miss Ws 
formal complaint was logged  and dealt with very quickly. So although  I think Miss W was 
frustrated by Avivas earlier actions, I dont think the complaints process was compromised.
I dont think Miss W lost out by Aviva  not telling her at the start that she could claim on her 
policy. Miss W told Aviva shed advised the other  driver that she probably wouldnt make a 
claim. So I think shes shown that she was already aware of the claims process and that it 
was her choice whether  to use it. 
Ref: DRN85175723  
As a result of having a fault claim on her record, Miss Ws NCD was reduced.  I can see why 
that was one of her major  concerns, given the impact on her future  premiums.  Miss W didnt 
think the amount  of the reduction  was correct, as shed  earned more than 10 years NCD 
prior to the accident. But the policy sets out very clearly the amounts by which NCD will be 
reduced. It says consumers with five or more years NCD  will have their discount  reduced to 
three years. So I dont  think Aviva did anything wrong on this issue. 
I think Aviva  recognised that it could have provided better service to Miss W. It apologised 
and in my opinion it also made a reasonable attempt to compensate Miss W by offering her 
£75. I appreciate that Miss W was upset by Avivas actions and that she thinks  more 
compensation is justified.  But taking everything  into account, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to require  Aviva to pay further compensation.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Aviva didnt comment. Miss W 
said Aviva  didnt represent he rights as a customer.  In her view the other driver wasnt 
dishonest, but he got every chance to support his case, whilst the CCTV evidence shed 
asked for wasnt sought.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im still of the view that it wasnt  unreasonable in the circumstances here for Aviva not to 
seek the CCTV footage,  for the reasons set out above. I think it took Miss Ws comments  
into account as well as the other drivers  account,  as both of them were its customers. So I 
dont think it acted unreasonably in settling  the complaint  as it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8517572