K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a credit card in March 2004. Mrs B says Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
Mrs B says the PPI was added without her consent  and she was told her payments were  
automatically covered  if she wasnt able to pay them. So Ive looked carefully at her credit  
card application  form to decide whats most likely to have happened at the time.
I accept that I cant know exactly what was said during the meeting between  Mrs B and 
Halifax, but the application form includes a tick box to include PPI. Although the box appears  
to have been pre-crossed before it was printed, the entire application  form is pre-printed.  So 
I think this was the result of a discussion between Mrs B and Halifax.  And if Mrs B didnt 
understand the form, or didnt  agree to the PPI box being selected, I think shed most likely 
have questioned it, or not signed the form.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs B so it had to check  that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. I understand that she was entitled  to sick pay from her 
employer, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to that, for up to a year.  So Mrs B 
wouldve been able to use her sick pay for any other  financial commitments  she had. The 
PPI wouldve  also paid out if Mrs B had lost her job  and from what shes said, it doesnt  
seem as though  she had enough in savings to sustain her credit  card repayments for very 
long if that had happened.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
I want to reassure Mrs B that Ive thought  carefully about everything shes  said. But having 
done so, I dont think that Halifax  mis-sold the PPI to her.
This means  Halifax doesnt  need to refund everything Mrs B paid for the PPI. But Halifax has 
already offered to give Mrs B back some  of the cost of the PPI. 
Ref: DRN89478762I understand that Mrs B hasnt accepted Halifaxs offer yet, but Halifax  will make  
arrangements to pay Mrs B now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8947876