K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly  declined  a claim he made 
under his property  owners policy.
background
Mr N says a rental property he owns suffered an escape of water  in 2016. He said this 
caused damage across  the property and led his tenants to move out. Mr N said he contacted  
UKI, his property owners cover provider, on a number of occasions around this time and 
was told hed need to establish  the cause of any damage before itd consider a claim.  But 
because of a disability and his health  at the time Mr N says he wasnt able to do this. So he 
said UKI wouldnt consider the matter any further. 
During these calls Mr N says he asked  UKIs  agents  not to record any details of the 
conversations on its system  as he was concerned it could affect his premiums. Then in 2018 
Mr N arranged for works and repairs to be carried out by his sons  company (Company A).
In November 2018 Mr N spoke to UKI about cancelling his policy  and gave his previously 
declined claim as a reason  for leaving.  UKI asked  Mr N for details  and documents about the 
incident to decide whether it could consider the claim  retrospectively. Mr N provided UKI with 
photos of damaged flooring and skirting boards, and invoices for £115,000 from Company A. 
UKI said these invoices covered extensive renovation  works  across the home.  To consider 
the claim further UKI sent a representative  to visit the property  in November 2018. 
UKI said the representative found  possible sources of water damage due to a leak in the 
bathroom and water ingress from the roof. But it said the photos  of the apparent  damage to 
Mr Ns flooring appeared to be as a result  of long standing damage.  So it said this wasnt  
enough to validate that the damage occurred as a result of any single event. UKI also 
highlighted that the works  werent  carried out for around two years  after the incident and the 
property wasnt re-let  during this time.
UKI said itd received no other evidence of damage  across the property, and there were no 
records of Mr N calling in 2016. So UKI declined  the claim but said itd reconsider the claim if 
Mr N was able to substantiate the claim  any further.
Mr N said he didnt take or keep further photos  or evidence as he believed the claim was 
declined in 2016 following  his call with UKI. Mr N said his tenants had in fact arranged the 
initial repairs  for the water leak and damaged  ceilings, and hed deducted these costs from 
their rent. And he clarified that he didnt intend to claim for the full renovation  costs,  only the 
kitchen, bathroom,  flooring,  painting of the full house  and loss of rental income.
Mr N was unhappy with UKIs actions  so brought his complaint  to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what happened and didnt uphold it. He said Mr Ns policy  required 
incidents to be reported soon after they occurred and supporting evidence would need  to be 
submitted  but this hadnt happened in this case.
The investigator said Mr N had been unclear about  when the damage occurred or how itd 
come about,  and agreed with UKI that the photos provided were  inconclusive as to the 
cause of damp. Overall  the investigator said UKI had acted fairly considering the claim and 
Mr N simply hadnt  provided enough to substantiate it. So because Mr N disagreed,  the 
complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN89331542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
The Insurance: Conduct of Business sourcebook  (ICOBS   available online) section 8 
outlines UKIs obligations when handling a claim. It says UKI must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  
and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Ive kept these obligations in mind when deciding the outcome of this case.
2016 call
Mr N has said his claim was declined within a call with UKI in 2016. UKI has said it checked  
its records and theres  no evidence of a call of this nature taking place.  And despite trying, 
Mr N has also been unable to provide  any records to show  a call took place either. 
But given the time thats passed  Ive considered  what Mr N has said. He said he was told 
hed need to establish the cause of the incident before UKI would consider a claim.  But he 
said he didnt know the cause as he hadnt seen the damage himself. I understand his 
tenants reported the incident to him initially, and his wife subsequently visited the house.
Insurance policies  of this nature arent  designed  to cover all potential  risks that could affect a 
home, and instead  this policy insures  Mr Ns property against certain perils. So even if this 
call did take place as hes said, I dont think it wouldve been unreasonable  for UKI to ask 
this information.  I say this as it would enable UKI to determine whether this damage  is likely 
to be covered by the insurance  before proceeding. And it seems reasonable to me that Mr N 
couldve then simply sought out the cause of the damage, either by speaking  to his tenants  
or his wife about  what theyd seen, then calling UKI back to report  this.
Mr N has also said he specifically asked for nothing to be registered on UKIs system as he 
had concerns about an impact on his premiums. This in itself suggests to me Mr N was 
aware hed chosen not to pursue the claim rather than having it declined  by UKI. So if the 
call did take place as Mr N says,  it seems he then chose to not pursue the claim for reasons 
of his own, despite being aware of what hed need  to provide UKI for it to continue.
2019 consideration of claim
Ref: DRN89331543Under the claims conditions of Mr Ns policy, it says the policyholder will notify UKI 
immediately of any incident that could  result in a claim, as well as provide proof to support 
this. This is common across insurance  policies of this nature.
Following Mr Ns call in 2018  UKI agreed  to consider the claim and sent an agent to review 
the property. It did this and reviewed  all of the evidence provided. UKI then requested 
documents from Mr N, including a tenancy agreement  and invoices for works  completed 
already. Given the nature  of the claim Im satisfied  these were reasonable requests. 
Mr N was unable to provide anything further, and has since  said much  of his important  
paperwork was thrown away  due to the water damage within the rented  property.  Its not 
clear to me why these  specific  documents were kept within the rented  accommodation.  But 
in any case Im satisfied UKI has acted  fairly  and in line with its policy terms by requesting 
this information  to allow it to assess the claim.  
Having carefully considered the photographs provided by Mr N, I agree with UKI that these 
do not show a clear cause  of the damage. And from what Ive seen overall UKI has 
investigated the circumstances to establish whether an insured peril took place and given  
Mr N the opportunity to support this claim  with evidence,  despite there  being  a number of 
years since  the initial  alleged incident.
UKI concluded that its not been  given enough  to substantiate  the claim, and I think this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ive also noted that it has said it would reconsider 
this if Mr N could provide anything further in the future. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it 
has handled and declining this claim, so Im not asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8933154