K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mrs S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mrs S doesnt remember having any conversations about MPPI  she thinks  that this 
shows that something is amiss. But I think Santander made it clear  that Mrs S didnt 
have to take out the MPPI  and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why 
she cant remember this as it was so long ago. Mrs S took out her original mortgage  in 
1988  but didnt  take MPPI at this time, it was taken  out in 1993.  Santander  isnt able to 
say what prompted the sale and there was no further borrowing at the time. But I do think 
that in order for the policy to have been  put in place,  there  would have been contact 
between Santander  and Mrs S  and as she had her mortgage for five years prior to the 
policy being set up, I think Mrs S wouldve  been  aware she didnt have to take the policy.  
Its likely  Santander recommended the MPPI to Mrs S so it would have had to check  that 
the MPPI  was right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs S about the MPPI  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But as I think she chose to take it out - it looks  like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs S paid on her MPPI  and whether Santander 
treated her unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mrs Ss MPPI was less than half of what  she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ss commission was less than half the 
cost of the MPPI.  As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about the commission 
 so I dont think  Santander treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs S 
back any of the commission she paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN81675372Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8167537