K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that a training course  that he paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement with 
Caledonian Consumer  Finance Limited  was misrepresented  to him and wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
background
Mr A entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Caledonian Consumer Finance in 
January 2018  to pay for a welding course.  The cost of the course  was £7,145,  he paid a 
deposit of £50, the loan was interest free and he agreed to make 43 monthly  payments of 
£165. He also signed a registration form with the course provider.
He complained to the course provider  twice in September 2018 about issues  that hed had 
with the course  and he said that he wanted to terminate the course with no further liability. It 
responded to the issues that hed raised but Mr A then complained to Caledonian Consumer 
Finance. It said that itd found no evidence to indicate that the course was misrepresented to 
him, that it wasnt fit for purpose or that the course provider had breached its contract  with 
him. Mr A wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She wasnt satisfied 
that thered been a breach of contract  by the course  provider or that the course wasnt fit for 
purpose. 
Mr A has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says that he 
disagrees that the course provider has provided satisfactory quality products and he says 
that the text book has answers missing. He says that the course providers reliance on its 
terms and conditions makes him think that it knew the course was flawed. He says that he 
only became aware of the low percentage of the course that was to do with welding after he 
started the course   and he did read the course  plan. He says that he should  at least be 
awarded some money back because  of the mistakes in the course  materials. And he says 
that hes not received an income  and expenditure form from Caledonian Consumer Finance 
in response to him telling  it about  his changing  circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A signed  the loan agreement and the registration form in January 2018.  The registration  
form said:
I confirm  that I have  been left with a complete course kit for appraisal, which 
includes the study guide, plan of the course  and copy of the Credit Agreement  and I 
understand how the open learning  nature  of my self-study program  works .
I understand that tutor support is not assumed but is optionally available,  my self-
study program is supervised  and supported by telephone, email and through Student  
World. 
I understand that my self-study program may take from 12 to 36 months and it can be 
paid for according  to the schedule issued  at registration. I understand that the pace 
at which  I choose  to work through the material remains under my control and is a 
matter of personal preference.
Ref: DRN80033162So Mr A had received  the course kit (which  included the study guide) and the course  plan. 
And hed confirmed that he understood the arrangements for tutor support and that it was a 
self-study programme that could  take between twelve and 36 months to complete.
Mr A sent two detailed  e-mails to the course  provider in September 2018 about  his issues 
with the course  and in particular his concerns about  the course materials. It sent detailed  
responses to each of those e-mails.  Its clear  that Mr A wasnt satisfied with the responses 
that he received  and he complained to Caledonian Consumer  Finance. 
I can understand Mr As frustration about  the issues that hes identified with the course 
materials and that the course  is different to how he thought that it would be, particularly as 
hes paying £7,145 for it. But Im not persuaded that hes provided enough evidence to show  
that the course was misrepresented to him or that the issues  that hes had with the course 
are enough  to show that it isnt of satisfactory quality. And Im not persuaded that theres 
enough evidence  to show that the course  provider has breached  its contact with Mr A.
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
Caledonian Consumer  Finance to end the fixed sum loan agreement,  to pay any 
compensation to Mr A or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
Mr A contacted Caledonian Consumer Finance in September 2019 because  he said that his 
circumstances were  going to change and he asked it to send him an income  and 
expenditure form. He says it hasnt done so. A lender  is required  to respond to a customers  
financial difficulties positively and sympathetically. That doesnt mean  that its required to 
take any particular  action, as whats appropriate  in each case will depend on the customers 
individual circumstances.  I note that Mr As loan is interest free but if he hasnt received the 
income and expenditure that he asked  for, I suggest that he contacts Caledonian Consumer 
Finance about  it.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003316