K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED trading as WageDayAdvance 
(WDA) gave  her loans that she couldnt afford  to repay.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in 
January. An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will not 
repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  be partially upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D confirmed that she had nothing to add to my provisional decision. But WDA has not 
provided any response. In these circumstances I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions that I reached.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Miss Ds complaint. To put things right CURO 
TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED should:
refund  all interest and charges paid by Miss D on loans 4 to 8 inclusive;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ds credit file in relation to loans  4 to 
8.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED  to take off tax from 
this interest. CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED  must give Miss D a certificate  showing how 
much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2019.
Richard France
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN80537962EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background 
During 2017  and 2018 Miss D took out eight payday loans with WDA, as follows:
loan No. amount date lent date repaid
1 £100 8 May 2017 23 June 2017
2 £250 26 June 2017 21 July 2017
3 £200 27 July 2017 23 August  2017
4 £250 24 August  2017 22 September  2017
5 £250 24 September  2017 23 October 2017
6 £250 25 October 2017 28 October 2017
7 £250 30 October 2017 25 January 2018
8 £150 25 January 2018 23 February 2018
All of the loans were repaid in full.
Miss D feels  that WDA  didnt  carry out adequate affordability checks  before providing her loans and 
that, if it had done so, it wouldve seen that she had other short term loans, had debts  in default, had 
missed payments and had been under  a debt management plan. She argues that WDA gave her 
loans every month for eight  consecutive months and that it shouldve recognised that this emerging 
pattern of dependence was an indication that she was experiencing financial difficulties. She believes 
that the loans from WDA contributed to her being caught in a spiral  of debt.
WDA has shown us that, before each loan, it asked Miss D for details of her income and expenditure. 
It also carried  out checks  with a credit  reference  agency. It is content that it did carry  out adequate 
checks to ensure that the loans were affordable before lending. 
In its final response to Miss D, WDA upheld her complaint  in relation to loan 8 and offered to refund all 
interest and charges shed paid for that loan.
Our adjudicator felt that WDA had done  nothing  wrong  in providing loans  1 and 2. However he didnt 
think that its checks for loans 3 to 8 inclusive went far enough and that, if itd done better  checks, it 
wouldve seen that these loans werent affordable. He recommended that compensation be paid to 
Miss D in respect of those loans.
WDA didnt agree.  It did revise its offer to uphold part of the complaint,  and pay compensation, for 
loans 6 to 8, but refused to do so in relation to loans 3 to 5. Because  Miss D didnt accept  this offer 
the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Given that WDA has already now agreed to uphold loans  6 to 8, this decision will focus  only upon 
loans 1 to 5. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
WDA was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether  Miss D could  afford 
to pay back the loans before  it lent to her. Those  checks  needed  to be proportionate to things such  as 
the amount Miss D was borrowing and her lending history, but there was no set list of checks that 
WDA had to do.
Ref: DRN80537963The loans are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), whose regulations for lenders are 
set out in its consumer credit  sourcebook (generally referred to as CONC). These regulations  - in 
CONC 5.3.1(2)  - require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers ability to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.   CONC 5.3.1(7)  
defines sustainable as being able to make repayments without undue difficulty.  And explains that this 
means borrowers should be able to make their repayments on time and out of their income and 
savings without  having  to borrow to meet  these  repayments. 
So, the fact that Miss D managed to repay the loans  in full and, generally,  on time doesnt necessarily 
mean that they were  affordable  for her and that she managed to repay them in a sustainable manner.  
In other words I cant assume that because Miss D managed to repay  her loans  that she was able to 
do so out of her normal means  without having to borrow further.
I can see that, before each  loan,  WDA asked  Miss D for details of her income and expenditure. It also 
carried out checks  with a credit reference agency and, whilst I havent seen the results of these  
checks, I have seen  WDAs  internal summary of the outputs for four of the loans.
loan 1
When she applied  for loan 1, Miss D stated her net monthly  income to be £1,645.  She recorded her 
monthly expenditure as being £400 (comprising  rent, credit commitments, living expenses),  leaving  
her with apparent  monthly  disposable income  of £1,245.
WDAs file note suggests  that the results of its credit check at this time showed that Miss D had total 
debts of almost £9,000.  Of these, there was a sum of £5,020 that was in default  but the latest 
default recorded was 17 months  earlier.  Shed had a total of 9 accounts  that were up to date in the 
past 3 months. It appears that this included 2 live short term loans (of 11 short term loans across the 
preceding 6 months). 
WDA decided that it was comfortable lending to Miss D despite  the evidence  of other borrowings and 
past difficulties. At this early  stage  in its relationship I think that WDA  was entitled to rely upon the 
information that Miss D provided to it and, given the modest amount borrowed over a short  repayment 
term, I think that the checks carried out by WDA were proportionate.  
loan 2
Loan 2 was granted just three days after the first loan was repaid,  and was for an increased  amount. 
Miss D declared her income and expenditure to remain the same, leaving apparent disposable  
income of £1,245 with which to repay this loan at £300. WDAs  summary of its credit check shows 
minimal change from the previous month.
Despite the close proximity of the loans and the increase in amount borrowed, I think that WDAs 
checks remained proportionate and that it wasnt wrong  to agree to this loan.
loan 3
Loan 3 represented the third consecutive month where Miss D had requested a payday loan. Whilst 
the amount was slightly lower, at £200, it was taken  less than one week after repayment of loan 2. In 
the circumstances, I think that WDA  ought to have been considering whether Miss D was becoming  
dependent upon short term borrowings. It was aware, from its credit checks, that Miss D had other 
short term loans and I think that, by this time, it shouldve also asked her for details of these other 
commitments. I cant see that it did so.
Ive looked at Miss Ds bank  statements from the time to ascertain the extent of her commitments to 
other short  term lenders  and can see that she had to make repayments amounting  to £650  to three 
Ref: DRN80537964other lenders during the following month. I think its most likely that, if Miss D had been asked by 
WDA for details of her other  short term borrowings, she wouldve disclosed this figure.
I can see from the bank statements that Miss Ds actual net income was around £1,250 as opposed  to 
£1,645 as shed stated in her applications to WDA. But, I dont think  there was any reason,  at that 
point, for WDA to doubt what  Miss D was telling  it about her income.  Equally, I dont  see any reason 
why WDA should not still have relied upon  the information that Miss D provided  about her monthly  
expenses.
On that basis,  I think that WDA would have assessed her monthly  disposable income  as being  £595,  
even after accounting  for the other short term loans (income £1,645 less monthly expenses £400 and 
short term loans £650). I think that, on that basis, it would most likely  still have considered this loan,  
with its required repayment of £308, to be affordable.
As such, whilst  I dont think that WDAs affordability checks  went  far enough  on this occasion, I dont 
think doing the better  checks  that I consider to be proportionate wouldve  made  a difference  to its 
decision to lend. My view here differs from that of our adjudicator who felt that WDA should have 
recognised at this stage  that the loan was not affordable.
loan 4
Loan 4 was made on the day following repayment of loan 3. This was now the fourth  consecutive  
month that Miss D had taken  payday loans  from WDA and I think, with its knowledge of her 
background (including defaults and other short term loans), it shouldve been questioning whether the 
information being provided by Miss D was reliable. I think, therefore, that it should  have sought to 
independently verify her information. There are a number  of ways in which this could  be done, 
including asking for copies of her wage slips,  bills or her bank statements. I cant see that WDA  did 
this.
Ive looked again at Miss Ds bank statements and can see that her actual income was £1,252  
which is significantly  lower than the £1,645 that shed  declared to WDA  in her loan application. Her 
regular expenses amounted to over £500 and, alongside these, she had commitments to repay  other 
short term loans in the following month of £1,000. Its apparent from this review that, at the time 
Miss D applied for it, the repayment of £308  required  for loan 4 wasnt affordable for her. I think that, if 
WDA had done the better checks that I consider proportionate  it wouldve  seen this.
I think  WDA  was wrong to provide loan 4.
loan 5
Loan 5 was granted just two days after loan 4 had been  repaid.  For the same reasons  outlined  above,  
I think  that WDA shouldve once again undertaken a full analysis of Miss Ds financial  circumstances 
before making this loan. I cant  see that it did so.
I have seen WDAs summary  of a credit check it carried out at the time it was considering loan 5. This 
shows that, in the three months since loan 2 was given, Miss Ds total debts had risen from £8,994 to 
£18,393. Despite this, WDAs records of Miss Ds expenditure suggest  that her monthly  commitments 
for credit amounted to only £100  which  is exactly the same as for each previous  application.
Ive looked at Miss Ds bank  statements from the time of loan 5 and can see that her monthly  income 
was £1,258. Her normal monthly living costs, including  regular financial commitments,  were  around 
£850 in the month before. In addition I can see that she had repayments  of over £300 due to other 
short term lenders at the time of her application for loan 5. This left her with an indicative monthly 
disposable income  of just over £100, which is clearly  insufficient to make the WDA loan repayment of 
£308 affordable.
Ref: DRN80537965I think  that, if WDA had carried out the better checks that I consider to be proportionate, it wouldve  
seen that this loan wasnt affordable. So, I think it was wrong to provide this loan.
In summary I dont think that WDA did anything wrong in providing  loans 1 to 3. But, I dont think that 
it should  have lent loans 4 and 5, and its already conceded that it shouldnt have  given loans 6 to 8. 
So, to put things right, CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED  should:
refund all interest and charges paid by Miss D on loans 4 to 8 inclusive;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each of these  amounts from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Ds credit file in relation to loans 4 to 8.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED to take off tax from this 
interest. CURO TRANSATLANTIC LIMITED must  give Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN8053796