K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) declined  to help them to 
recover money they lost due to a scam.
background
Mr and Mrs H say in October  2015 they bought a holiday  membership  from a business that 
Ill call Business A, using  funds  from three  accounts, including  their Barclays  bank account.  
They say they were only able to make  very limited  use of the service  provided by Business A 
and they say it ceased trading in November 2018.
Mr and Mrs H also say they sought the help of Barclays to get their money back,  but it said it 
wasnt able to help them and that they were too late to use the chargeback  process to try to 
get their money  back.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said Barclays 
wasnt responsible  for the chargeback scheme,  which was operated by the global card 
organisation that issued the debit  card Mr and Mrs H had used  to make the payment to 
Business A. And he said one of the rules of the chargeback scheme was that disputes about 
payments had to be raised within 120 days from the transaction  date. 
The investigator also said Mr and Mrs H had raised  this matter with Barclays  around three 
years after they had made the payment to Business A. So, he said Barclays  had been 
correct to say it was too late to try to get their money back by raising a dispute through  the 
chargeback scheme.    
Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the investigators conclusions.  So, the matter has been 
referred to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Mr and Mrs H contacted Barclays in October 2018 to dispute  the payment  they had 
made to Business A in 2015 using their debit card. And I see Barclays  rightly  considered  
whether it could raise  a chargeback on their behalf  under  the scheme operated  by the global 
card organisation that issued the card.
I also see Barclays concluded  it was too late to raise  a chargeback, due to the scheme  rule 
requiring disputes to be raised within 120 days of the transaction.  
I think its important to note that this rule isnt made by Barclays  its a rule made by the 
global card organisation  that issued Mr and Mrs Hs debit card. So, Barclays  didnt have  any 
discretion to ignore the rule. If it had attempted to raise  a chargeback on Mr and Mrs Hs 
behalf notwithstanding the 120 day rule, it would undoubtedly have been rejected as having 
been made well outside the time limit for doing  so.  
Ref: DRN80593352Mr and Mrs H have clearly suffered loss as a result of the actions of Business A and Ive 
great sympathy for them. But they chose to make the payment to Business A and in these 
circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to require Barclays to reimburse the money  theyve 
lost or to take legal  action to try to recover it on their behalf. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Barclays  Bank  UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8059335