K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
March 1997. Mr B says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Lloyds made  it clear that Mr B didnt have  to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs credit card application form. In a section  
titled; OPTIONAL FEATURES, there  are a number of options  for additional products 
and services, including PPI. A tick has been placed next to the option for PPI and 
Mr B has signed the overall form.  
Ive also noted  that in this section some of the options were  selected and some 
werent. This again suggests that Mr B would have  been reasonably aware  that PPI 
was optional and he chose to take it out  understanding that it was separate to and 
not a condition of the credit card.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. Mr B 
has told us that he had no sick pay entitlement  so the policy could have been 
useful if he was unwell and unable to work. 
Although Mr B has also said My employer  redundancy policy  is numerable  enough  to 
easily clear my outstanding debts,  given what hes told us about his length of 
employment at the time of sale I think that its more likely that Mr B was entitled to 
little, if any redundancy.  I say this because Mr B had been employed for 1 month  in 
his job at the time of sale.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Ref: DRN88393692But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to the relevant party  any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8839369