K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC has acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with the redemption of their mortgage. They  want  the difference between what 
they paid as a final redemption charge and what they think  they shouldve paid, 
compensation if Barclays cant show its redemption figure is correct, and interest due to 
financial loss.
background
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage with Barclays. They  paid £275 as a final redemption charge 
(FRC), which  they felt was unfair  as they said that the new mortgage  contract  said the FRC 
should be £80. Mr and Mrs B also said that they werent shown the calculations underlying 
the redemption  statement, despite  asking for them, and didnt know  why they were  only 
refunded £1,061.28. Barclays  had given two different  figures for the outstanding balance  in a 
redemption statement and a revised  payment notice, and Mr and Mrs B had paid £2,310.67  
more than the lower  figure given in a revised  payment  notice.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Barclays. It apologised  for not explaining  the refund in more 
detail and said that it was due a refund of the final direct debit and interest. Barclays offered 
to refund the £30.45  which remained overpaid  and to pay £100  for the trouble and upset  
caused by the failure to explain the refund.  But it denied that it had charged the wrong 
amount for the FRC.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that the original mortgage offer 
accepted by Mr and Mrs B said that the FRC was £275; she said that the later product offer 
referred back to the original mortgage  offer on this issue.  The adjudicator said that the FRC 
charged was correct. 
The adjudicator explained that this service wasnt an auditor  and didnt carry out checks  on 
whether balances were  correct, though  we could look at the steps  taken by a business. She 
thought that Barclays hadnt offered enough though to put Mr and Mrs B back  into the 
position that they shouldve been  in if the correct redemption figure had been given in the 
first place. The adjudicator noted that Mr and Mrs B had taken out a larger mortgage with 
another lender to redeem  the Barclays mortgage  and therefore paid more  interest.  She said 
the extra mortgage interest  from 1 February  2019  to the date of the refund should be paid by 
Barclays. The adjudicator  didnt think the calculation  of the redemption  figure  was now 
incorrect but said Mr and Mrs B could get an expert  to check it.
The adjudicator also thought that £100  compensation  for trouble  and upset wasnt fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. She said consumers should  be able to rely on 
redemption statements as being correct, and later correspondence from Barclays only 
confused the situation  further. No explanation  for the difference between  the two redemption 
statements was given  in the view of the adjudicator  at the time and not all the overpayment  
was refunded. She thought this affected Mr and Mrs Bs trust in Barclays  and caused them 
to complain. The adjudicator said another £100 compensation should be paid.
Ref: DRN86848912Mr and Mrs B initially agreed with the adjudicators  view, but then felt that the FRC hadnt  
been clearly set out in the later offer documents, and said that it was bad practice.  
Mr and Mrs B also said that Barclays hadnt acted in a transparent way to explain the 
redemption figure  and the refund  and wanted the matter reviewed as the redemption 
statement had been incorrect.  The adjudicator explained that this service doesnt punish  or 
fine businesses, but puts consumers back into the position that they shouldve been in if the 
mistaken hadnt been made. She didnt think the FRC information in the later offers was bad 
practice and said that she was satisfied by Barclays explanation about the refund (and 
provided more evidence about  the calculations to Mr and Mrs B).
Barclays also disagreed  with the adjudicator. It said that the redemption  statement clearly 
stated that it didnt take into account any payment made after a particular date and therefore 
warned Mr and Mrs B that they might  be overpaying  (and said that any later payment could 
be deducted from the redemption monies). Barclays pointed out that most  of the refund was 
paid promptly and didnt  think  compensation for trouble and upset should be increased.
The adjudicator said that in light of the comments, she didnt think Barclays should pay 
interest on the higher new mortgage balance  as the redemption statement did make  it clear 
that future  payments werent taken into account and Mr and Mrs B could deduct them from 
the redemption  figure.  But she remained of the view that £200 compensation for trouble and 
upset was fair and reasonable.  Barclays still disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Redemption statements should be correct and able to be relied upon by consumers, but its 
also fair and reasonable to point out that they are often prepared  on the worst case 
scenario basis to ensure that payment in full is received. In other words, lenders dont 
assume that a direct  debit due to be paid in the future  will be paid when preparing 
redemption statements. Barclays redemption statement  makes  it clear it follows this 
practice.
Mr and Mrs Bs redemption statement  was prepared before the direct  debit payment was 
taken. The second  redemption figure  from the revised payment notice didnt take into 
account interest yet to be charged under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage. This 
notice wasnt a formal  redemption statement and isnt designed to be relied  upon  for 
redemption. I reiterate  that this service  isnt a forensic accounting service and its open to 
Mr and Mrs B to get an expert to look at this issue. Im satisfied  that the explanation given by 
Barclays to this service appears to be correct, based  on the evidence available  to me.
The redemption statement did clearly state  that it didnt take account of future  payments, but 
it also said that it set out the amount payable on a future date, included future interest,  and 
would be correct for 30 days. In my view, the wording for this statement is likely to confuse  
consumers as it isnt straightforward or simple, though I accept such  consumers are 
generally advised by solicitors  who could explain it to them. But the redemption statement 
did clearly tell Mr and Mrs B that they could deduct future payments from the redemption 
monies. I think it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for Barclays to pay interest  on the higher new 
mortgage balance  in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN86848913But I think that the explanation about the refund couldve been given to Mr and Mrs B much 
earlier and avoided much  of their trouble and upset.  No explanation was given when  the 
refund was notified to them, and in any event the amount refunded was incorrect, which  
Barclays accepts. I dont  know why the incorrect amount  was refunded,  and so neither does 
Mr and Mrs B. And as Ive said,  the wording of the redemption statement couldve been  
clearer. And the interest charged later was always likely to be charged,  but wasnt  mentioned  
in the revised  payment notice with the lower  redemption  figure.  In fact, in my judgment the 
revised payment  notice  caused most of the confusion  and upset.
Money cant truly compensate for trouble  and upset, but Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs B did 
suffer confusion, frustration, and upset due to Barclays unclear letters  and documentation, 
its failure to properly explain what had happened  when  it notified them  of the refund, and its 
failure to refund the correct amount.  Theyve also lost trust in Barclays  for understandable 
reasons  it should be simple for a lender to give the information Mr and Mrs B sought  
promptly and to refund the correct sum. Taking the evidence and the circumstances into 
account, I think £200 compensation (including the £100 already offered) is fair and 
reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Mr and Mrs B by the failures of Barclays set 
out above.
Turning to the issue of the FRC, Im satisfied that the correct figure is £275. The original 
mortgage offer underlies the whole  mortgage, regardless of any later product changes. The 
later product  offers also say clearly  that the FRC will be as set out in the original document.  I 
dont think this is misleading or bad practice.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Barclays Bank  UK PLC should refund the 
remaining £30.45  and pay £200  compensation to Mr and Mrs B. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my 
decision before  3 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8684891