K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay her cancellation claim under her 
travel insurance policy.
background
Ms A had booked flights to travel to an event  abroad.  Unfortunately, a few days before Ms A 
was due to travel to the event it was cancelled.  Ms A tried to claim for the flight  costs shed 
incurred but Aviva declined her claim.  Unhappy with this Ms A brought  her complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She highlighted the sections under the policy  
that couldve led to a valid claim.  Our investigator accepted that none of the sections applied 
to Ms As circumstances.  She said Aviva had acted reasonably when it declined to deal with 
the claim.  Ms A didnt  accept this and asked for her complaint  to be passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms A is unhappy.  She has travel insurance and expected it would step 
in and pay her claim in this situation. But the policies dont cover every  eventuality.  Ive 
worked through the list of situations and events that would be paid out for following a 
cancellation and none of the sections apply to Ms As claim.
Its accepted the event  Ms A was going to was cancelled. But the policy only pays  out for 
cancellation in specific circumstances.  The situations when claims are paid and noted  in the 
policy include:
Injury  or death;
Damage to your home from fire, flood or adverse  weather;
Burglary;
Adverse weather stopping you leaving home to travel;
Pre-booked transport problems;
Your leave is cancelled as youre a member  of the armed forces or the emergency 
services;
Your foreign destination  is unreachable or uninhabitable;
Foreign and Commonwealth Office advice;
The accommodation provider  or their booking  agents become  insolvent;
Denied boarding  due to too many passengers for the number of seats  available;
Im afraid none of these situations  applied  to Ms A or her claim. So, I think  its clear that 
Aviva declining to deal with the claim was reasonable.  Theres  no cover  that applies, none of 
the situations match Ms As circumstances.
Ms A has said that this was exceptional  circumstances  and so Aviva  should still deal with her 
claim. But the way the policy is worded is to ensure Aviva is clear about  what it wants to pay 
out for and what it doesnt want to cover. I think the policy shows  that and Aviva has acted 
fairly.
Ref: DRN87931932my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793193