K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the way HSBC UK Bank  Plc handled a transfer  he tried to make.  
background
On 26 April 2019 Mr K used his HSBC  online  banking system to arrange a transfer to an 
account he has with a bank abroad. Mr K says he wanted to transfer  £6,200 in Great British 
Pounds (GBP) but HSBC incorrectly converted it to the local currency.  The funds left Mr Ks 
account on 29 April 2019.
HSBC says the receiving  bank sent it a message on 7 May 2019  to say it was holding Mr Ks 
funds because it needed some additional information. HSBC  spoke with Mr K on the same 
day and he raised  concerns that the funds had been converted  to the local currency. 
Mr K complained on 7 May 2019 and HSBC responded on the same  day. HSBC  said Mr K 
had instructed it to send  the payment in the local currency and its systems had asked him to 
confirm the details were  correct before  it went ahead. 
The receiving bank  sent the funds  back to HSBC and £6,200  was paid into Mr Ks account 
on 13 May 2019. 
Mr K referred his complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what  had happened.  
He said HSBC had acted in line with its instructions and didnt uphold  Mr Ks complaint. In 
response, Mr K pointed  out that he regularly transfers funds in this way and has never  had a 
problem before. Mr K asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K says that he is sure he sent the funds in GBP, not the local currency. Hes told us that 
hes made transfers like this many times and thinks HSBC is at fault. But HSBC  has 
provided compelling evidence from its systems that shows  the transfer instruction Mr K 
completed on 26 April 2019  was in the local currency. In addition, HSBC says that when a 
customer arranges a foreign  transfer online its systems default is to use the local currency. 
Customers have to specifically select a different currency if they dont want  to use the local 
one and confirm  their choice. HSBC says Mr K took those  steps  when completing the 
transfer request.
I appreciate Mr K has used his online banking facility to transfer money in GBP  before and 
knows how the system works. But I think the information provided by HSBC is clear  in 
showing that on 26 April 2019 Mr K requested the transfer be made  in the local currency,  not 
GBP. From  what  Ive seen, Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with its instructions. 
Ref: DRN88432652The receiving bank  contacted HSBC on 7 May 2019  to request some additional information 
about the transfer. But after HSBC  spoke with Mr K he raised  concerns  about the currency  
used and the transfer was recalled. As a result, £6,200  was paid back  to Mr Ks account  on 
13 May 2019. In his complaint form Mr K says he lost £500 due to exchange rates. But 
£6,200 left his account  on 29 April 2019 and £6,200 was paid back  on 13 May 2019. Mr K 
says he was sending  the funds to a GBP account  abroad. I havent seen anything  to show 
Mr K has lost out because  of exchange rates. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr K as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter. But the 
evidence Ive seen  shows Mr K instructed the transfer to be made in the local currency  not 
GBP. HSBC processed the transfer  in line with its instructions. After HSBC was contacted  by 
the receiving bank for further information  it spoke with Mr K who asked for the transfer to be 
recalled. The funds were  paid back into Mr Ks account on 13 May 2019. I appreciate Mr K 
feels HSBC incorrectly changed the currency used but I havent found  anything to show  
thats the case. As I havent found any evidence of an error by HSBC  and I think its dealt 
with Mr Ks complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8843265