K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about his home insurer, Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited,  
because it accused  him of fraud  when he made a claim to it for a damaged laptop. Lloyds 
declined the claim  and cancelled Mr Gs policy on the grounds of fraud.
background
Mr G arranged cover with Lloyds to start 27 March 2018. On 30 March  Mr Gs son knocked 
the family  laptop  on the floor causing damage  to the case and screen.  Mr G called Lloyds to 
make a claim.
Lloyds took the laptop  away but then said it thought it had last been used on 26 March  
2018. Mr G challenged  this and asked Lloyds to check how this date had been  established.  
He explained  the route  that should  be used to find the last used date as he suspected  that 
the date Lloyds had given  was the last time a certain app had been opened.
Lloyds wrote to Mr G. It said it was declining his claim as it didnt believe hed been using 
the laptop on 30 March as claimed.  It also noted that its specialist assessor had reported  
internal liquid damage. It said this didnt  accord with Mr Gs report  of the incident that hed 
made when  notifying  it of the claim. It said as well as declining  the claim it was cancelling 
his policy  on the grounds of fraud  and it would  be keeping his premium. But it accepted it 
had caused delays so said it was paying  Mr G £50.
Mr G complained to this service. He was unhappy about being accused  of fraud and having 
his policy  cancelled. But also about  the declined claim.
At the time Mr G didnt have an expert  report on the laptop. But once he received this back 
from Lloyds he got in touch with the manufacturer  initially  by travelling to meet  with it and 
then remotely with an expert. The expert said the laptop had definitely been in use on
30 March 2018,  and activity was also shown  to have occurred on 29 March  2018.
Our investigator, having  reviewed Mr Gs report, said Lloyds decline of the claim was unfair
 it should review it taking  into account  the new evidence. He said it should also pay a 
further £50 for the upset caused  by delays (making £100 total).
Mr G was unhappy. He noted hed had various financial losses as a result  of Lloyds actions 
and accusation of fraud.
Our investigator asked  Lloyds if it would remove the fraud marker placed on Mr Gs records.  
He told Mr G hed have  to continue to declare Lloyds cancellation as it was a matter  of fact 
but he could explain  to prospective insurers that wed upheld his complaint. It was also 
suggested that Mr G should  approach his current insurance providers who had charged  him 
more on account  of the fraud marker and ask them for premium adjustments  and refunds.
Lloyds confirmed it accepted the investigators  findings. It said it would replace the laptop, 
given the delays so far, rather than make Mr G go to the trouble of having  it repaired. It said 
it would  remove the fraud  marker.
Mr G remained  unhappy. He still felt hed been  put through  a lot because  of Lloyds 
decision and suffered financially because of it too. He explained he was refused a credit 
application and whilst  he had now found replacement home insurance it had been  difficult 
Ref: DRN81262392and costly. His car insurance  had gone up too. He felt it was unfair to say he had to try and 
fix that by asking for refunds.  Mr G also noted  that he now couldnt  easily  apply for 
insurance on-line  because in doing  that there  was no facility to explain about the 
cancellation. He said hed accept £12,000 in settlement of his claim and complaint 
(including the replacement cost for the laptop).
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. I felt Lloyds needed to do more 
than our investigator had suggested. I issued a provisional decision. I said:
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am satisfied that 
Lloyds decision to decline the claim and accuse Mr G of fraud was unfair and 
unreasonable. I note Lloyds  has accepted that it must review  the claim and remove the 
fraud marker  from any records, as well as paying a further £50 compensation to Mr G (in 
addition to the £50 it had already paid, making £100 total). But that, in my view,  doesnt go 
far enough to make  up for the consequences  suffered  by Mr G as a result of its decision. 
That being  said,  Im not going to make Lloyds  pay Mr G £12,000 as he has asked for. Ive 
explained below what I think Lloyds must do now and both parties  will have chance to 
respond before I make my final decision.
fraud
Fraud is a serious accusation with potentially serious consequences.  As such we consider 
that insurers shouldnt  make such an accusation lightly. Wed also expect them,  where such 
is alleged, to have  strong  evidence  to back up their actions. I dont think Lloyds had 
sufficient evidence here. I also think, from considering its case file, that it knew  the evidence 
provided by its specialist wasnt particularly sound, not least  because  the specialist  didnt 
ever confirm he had checked  the laptop  in the way suggested by Mr G. I think  Lloyds 
should also have  had a thought regarding the reported liquid damage before adding  that 
into the equation  because Mr G hadnt  ever claimed from it for that damage or for 
problems with the laptop that might have  been  caused by such. Nor had it shown the liquid  
damage had actually affected  the unit in anyway.
Lloyds has agreed  to remove the fraud  marker but it isnt clear  if it has yet done  that. It also 
needs to reinstate Mr Gs policy  if he wants it to. The policy will only be in force  until Mr G 
took out replacement cover, which I understand was sometime in October 2018. At that 
point Lloyds will have to mark it as cancelled by Mr G.
There may be a cost for this  whilst I know Lloyds retained the premium  Mr G had paid to 
it, I dont  know if hed paid for the whole year or just a pro-rata amount. If the whole years 
premium wasnt  already paid by Mr G hell need  to arrange payment with Lloyds for the 
period of reinstated cover  he might want it to deduct anything outstanding from any other  
amount it now has to pay him. If Mr G did pay for the whole year,  Lloyds will have to refund 
him anything  paid for cover beyond the point the replacement policy came into effect  in 
October 2018.
If Mr G doesnt  want the cover reinstating  Lloyds will only have to change  the records to 
show the cancellation on 30 March 2018  as having  occurred at Mr Gs request. It will have 
to return all of Mr Gs previously paid premium  to him.
Ref: DRN81262393From any premium refund,  Lloyds will not be able to deduct any amount to reflect the 
administrative costs of cancellation that the policy might normally allow it to.
Mr G will have to send evidence of his current property insurance cover  to Lloyds. If hes 
paying more for the current cover than he was with Lloyds, it will have to reimburse the 
additional cost to him. But for Lloyds unfair action Mr G wouldnt have  had to find another  
insurer  so if hes being charged  more  through the new insurer for cover he would have 
had through Lloyds if it hadnt cancelled his policy, it needs to reimburse that outlay. Plus 
interest* on the additional costs from the date each extra  cost was paid by Mr G until 
settlement is made.
Mr G has also mentioned  paying more for his motor insurance. If he can satisfy me in 
response to this provisional decision  what  he was being charged before, what he was then 
charged at renewal following Lloyds accusation/cancellation and that nothing  else changed 
at renewal that might have affected  that price  Ill likely make an award in my final decision 
to account for any extra costs I think hes likely  incurred as a result of Lloyds unfair  action. 
To any sum I find due, Ill likely require Lloyds  to add interest* from the date of renewal until 
settlement is made.
claim
Even if Mr G doesnt have the policy reinstated Lloyds will need to deal with the claim for 
the laptop. I understand its agreed to do that by paying for Mr Gs cost to replace it. In the 
circumstances I think thats reasonable.
compensation
Being accused of fraud is stressful, and I note Mr G has explained the sleepless nights hes 
had  on account of both the fraud accusation and being without insurance. I note hes 
been refused  credit  which has affected his personal  plans. Mr Gs had to spend  time trying 
to clear his name, and I note that in this respect,  Lloyds  never  really  listened to what hed 
said  it asked its specialist but didnt really  get anywhere with it. It could have taken the 
item from it and appointed  someone  else or asked the manufacturer for advice, as Mr G 
ultimately had to do himself. Mr G incurred some  small costs for travel (£4), and there  was 
the disruption associated with this too. Hes also been without his item. I think Mr G has 
suffered a lot because  of Lloyds unfair and unreasonable  decision. I think  £750  is fair and 
reasonable compensation in this instance. As Lloyds has already paid £50 it will now only 
have to pay the remaining £700 to Mr G.
I do appreciate everything Mr G has been  through. My figure of £750, set against his request 
for £12,000, shouldnt  be taken  as a suggestion  that I dont accept how much  distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. Rather I think my view of fair compensation for that upset 
simply differs from Mr Gs. To put my award  in some context, as a service our compensation 
awards are generally relatively modest;  often not amounting to more  than a couple of 
hundred pounds. We sometimes award  more than this, but not very often much more than 
around £1,500.
Lloyds agreed  to the findings and awards Id suggested. Mr G welcomed them  as well, but 
he remained  concerned  at the quality  of Lloyds claim  investigation, particularly as it seemed  
(to him) to have manipulated data in order to conceal evidence. He said he wants 
compensation to account for his costs over the next five years as a result of having  a fraud 
marker logged against  him. He clarified there  was the cost of a train fare on top of the £4.00  
Ref: DRN81262394bus ticket and that he had incurred higher home insurance premiums in November,  
December and January,  plus a cancellation  fee. He said he was no longer worried about his 
car insurance cost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G feels Lloyds acted  fraudulently and mis-used  his computer  data. 
I understand he has referred  this matter to another  specialist body. Whilst I dont know the 
reasons for Lloyds  acting in the way that it did, and I dont know whether that constituted  
mis-use of computer data,  I do know that it should  have acted differently, as explained 
provisionally. And I accept  that Mr G was caused distress and inconvenience as a result of 
its failures. I also accept that if its record of fraud  was allowed to remain,  that would have an 
impact on Mr G in the future. Which is why Ive said it should remove it and awarded 
compensation for any financial  loss or distress  and inconvenient caused already. Im not 
going to make it do more  than that as I think,  as explained provisionally, my awards  are fair 
and reasonable.
Once Mr G has the evidence regarding his extra costs for home insurance, including  a 
cancellation fee, he can send these to Lloyds for it to consider. As he doesnt wish to 
pursue the motor insurance costs, I wont comment on this further.  
I see that Mr G did pay for a train ticket as well as the bus. His total cost was £14.70. Ill ask 
Lloyds to reimburse him £15.00.
Ref: DRN81262395my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to:
Remove the record of fraud from its own and any industry  or national database.
If Mr G wants  it to; reinstate his policy for the period 30 March 2018 until the 
replacement cover  was arranged. At the point of the new policy  cover, mark Mr Gs 
policy with it as having been  cancelled  by him, subject  to an agreement being reached 
regarding any premium owed.
If Mr G doesnt want cover reinstating;  amend  the cancellation  record  for 30 March to 
show the policy was cancelled by Mr G.
Based  on the cancellation  point Mr G chooses,  reimburse any premium being held in 
respect of the period it wasnt on risk.
Upon receipt of proof of Mr Gs current  cost for home insurance, reimburse him 
anything over and above  which hed have  had to pay to it for that cover, including if 
appropriate and evidenced, a cancellation fee. Plus interest*  from the date any 
additional cost was incurred until settlement is made.
Pay Mr G his cost for a replacement laptop.
Pay Mr G £15.00 as reimbursement of his travel costs.
Pay Mr G a further  £700 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due 
to Mr G, it should  tell him how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8126239