K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited  sent him a replacement credit  card without 
informing him beforehand. Hes also unhappy it wouldnt send a further replacement to a 
different address.
background
Mr Ms Vanquis credit card was due to expire  on 31 October 2018.  So, on 3 September 2018  
Vanquis sent a replacement  credit card to his home  address. But Mr M said he didnt receive 
it and, when he asked  Vanquis to send  a new one to an alternative  address, it refused. Mr 
Ms also unhappy  that he cant access his account online because he doesnt have a card.
So Mr M complained to Vanquis. He said it shouldnt  have sent his replacement credit card 
without informing him beforehand and shouldve sent it to an address of his choice. He told 
Vanquis it should compensate him for the trouble  and upset he was caused. But Vanquis 
didnt agree. It said it hadnt  made  an error and didnt offer him any compensation.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. While our investigator empathised  with Mr M, they didnt 
think that Vanquis had done anything wrong  or needed to do anything more here. But Mr M 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I appreciate  this will 
come as a disappointment  to Mr M so Ill explain why.
The first part of Mr Ms complaint is about Vanquis  sending him a replacement  card without 
notifying him beforehand.  So, Ill focus on that issue first.
Mr M had the original card. So, I think it likely hed have known the card was due to expire 
and to expect  a replacement card. Vanquis  says its standard  banking practice to send 
replacement cards without notifying a customer first. It says cards are generated 
automatically based on the expiry date of the existing card. 
Like our investigator,  Im also persuaded by this explanation because the general practice 
within the banking  industry is that a few weeks before  an existing card expires a new one is 
sent to the registered address for the account.  This would usually be accompanied by a 
letter advising that the existing card should  be securely destroyed as soon  as the new one is 
activated. While Mr M didnt receive  the card that was posted in September,  fortunately,  
theres no evidence  that its been  fraudulently or dishonestly used by anyone.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of Mr Ms credit card account, which clearly explain that 
notice will only be given before a card is replaced  if the new card has different features or 
where its for a different  product. Theres no evidence that either  of those circumstances  
applied here.
So, Im satisfied Vanquis followed typical banking industry practice here and that it hasnt 
done anything  wrong in sending a replacement card to Mr M without informing him first.
Ref: DRN83044952The second  part of Mr Ms complaint  is about  Vanquis refusing to send a replacement  card 
to an address of his choice. Mr M says he didnt want his replacement card sent to his 
registered address  because  he lives in shared accommodation. He also said he changes 
location frequently and asked Vanquis  to send his replacement card to his work address. But 
for security reasons Vanquis said it could  only send a replacement card to the address 
registered on his account, which had been verified as a genuine  and valid customer  address. 
Having seen notes  from Mr Ms account  I can see hed had various discussions with Vanquis  
during 2018 regarding the concerns he had with it corresponding  with him at his home  
address. In May, he had raised  a complaint with Vanquis after it sent a card to his work  
address without proof of this address being provided by him first. So, with this in mind, I think 
Mr M knew Vanquis procedures for changing  correspondence addresses.
I also think it was reasonable for Vanquis to want to verify an address theyd been asked to 
send correspondence  to. Thats especially the case here, where Mr M had already raised the 
concerns Ive mentioned above.  So Vanquis followed its security procedure  and used only 
the address registered on Mr Ms account  for security reasons. This is Vanquis procedure,  
which its entitled to set. As were not the regulator of banks and building  societies, I cant 
ask it to change  its policy  or to adopt  the changes that Mr M would like. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Mr M and Vanquis have said here. But Im 
satisfied that Vanquis followed its own policy properly and explained why it couldnt issue  a 
replacement card to a different address. I can see it advised Mr M of alternative ways of 
receiving a replacement  card at his home  address. It offered  to send him a card by recorded 
delivery and invited him to contact customer services to arrange this. I think this recognised  
Mr Ms concerns and was helpful advice in the circumstances.
The final part of Mr Ms complaint is about his inability to access his online account.  This can 
only be resolved  once he receives his new card because not having the card is whats 
preventing him from accessing his online account.  So once he receives  his new card hell be 
able to use it to reset  his details and access his online account. I can see Vanquis gave him 
helpful advice  on how to access account  information  via customer services  and the Vanquis  
App until that point.
I appreciate that Mr M feels  very strongly about  the issues raised  in this complaint and I 
realise that it must  have been inconvenient and frustrating for these problems not to have 
been resolved  as hed have liked. But Im satisfied Vanquis  has dealt with this complaint 
fairly. It hasnt done anything wrong.  So I dont think it would be fair to ask it to do anymore  
or to offer compensation to Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304495