K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to her.
background
Sunny provided  Miss H with four instalment loans between May 2018 and October  2018.  
Miss Hs borrowing history  is detailed below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 13/05/2018 26/10/2018 6 £400.00 £104.81
2 07/06/2018 26/10/2018 6 £450.00 *£247.82
3 11/10/2018 26/10/2018 6 £300.00 *£340.94
4 18/10/2018 26/10/2018 6 £200.00 *£302.84
*highest repayment due to loans running concurrently
An adjudicator reviewed Miss Hs case and didnt think Sunny needed to do anymore when it 
provided loans  1-3. However, he thought loan 4 shouldnt have been given to Miss H due to 
her existing financial commitments. Sunny disagreed with the view as it felt it carried out 
proportionate checks and loan 4 was affordable  for Miss H.  
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me  an ombudsman  for
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the  
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain 
factors might  point  to the fact that Sunny should  fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN87957372There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to
establish whether  Miss H could sustainably repay her loans   not just whether the loan
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably 
if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint. Our adjudicator  didnt think Sunny 
needed to do any more when it gave Miss H loans 1-3. Miss H didnt disagree  with this so I 
wont be considering  these loans in detail,  but Ill still be considering them  when looking at 
Miss Hs financial situation at the time.  I dont think Miss H shouldve been given loan four 
and Ill explain why.
Sunny says it carried out checks on Miss H when she applied for her loan. This included 
gathering details of her income and existing  commitments. It says based on this 
information the loan was affordable for Miss H.
However, I think if Sunny had reacted effectively to the information it had gathered it 
wouldve seen Miss H had other  existing  short-term loans,  all taken out within months  of 
each other  and which were running  when Miss H applied for her loan. Three of these loans 
were with Sunny and one was with another short-term lender.  Based on these loans its 
reasonable to say that Miss H was having issues managing her finances.  So I think  Sunny 
shouldve considered this before providing  loan 4 as Miss H was not in a position to 
sustainably repay  her loans. 
Sunny says it carried out proportionate checks and it allows its customers  to have up to four 
loans at a time. In Miss Hs case it says she was left with enough disposable income and 
she has not had any issues  in repaying  the loans. I agree that Sunny carried  out checks, 
however I think based on the existing loans Miss H had it shouldve been looking to build a 
clearer picture of Miss Hs situation.  Miss H had another loan with a short-term  lender so 
Miss H wouldve had five loans running  concurrently. I think  this information  alone shows  
Miss H was not managing hr finances well and was potentially becoming reliant on short 
term lending and using  it to cover on-going shortfalls in her finances. 
So I dont  think Sunny shouldve given Miss H loan four and it should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Miss H loan four. 
Ref: DRN87957373A.) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Miss H towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans,  including payments made to a third party  
where applicable, but not including anything it has already  refunded.
B.) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Miss H which  were  considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss H 
originally made  the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.) Sunny  should  pay Miss H the total of A plus B.
D.) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  it has recorded  on Miss Hs credit file 
in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  you to deduct tax from this interest.  Sunny  should give Miss H a 
certificate showing  how much tax youve deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Hs complaint. Elevate Credit International 
Limited should put things right for Miss H as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Miss H to accept  or reject my decision
Before 3 May 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8795737