K820x#14complaint
Mr V, on behalf of a limited company which  Ill call K, complains  Santander havent refunded 
disputed transactions  totalling £29,541.88 which debited  its account.
background
Mr V disputed all transactions made from Ks account in October 2016. He initially raised a 
dispute with Santander in November 2016. It declined to refund him the money.  Mr V 
decided to pursue  a complaint about  the banks  decision in early 2018. 
Mr V says he didnt order or receive a new card and PIN which were used to carry out the 
transactions. He says he was away from home,  in a different city, caring for a relative when 
they would  have been delivered. The transactions took place in a third city about 100 miles 
from his home. He said he shared his home, which had a private letterbox, with his aunt and 
young niece and nephew. 
Santander investigated Mr Vs claim but were concerned by previous similar disputes,  
including disputes  over transactions to some  of the same merchants.  It also contacted 
Royal Mail who reported no problems  with post in Mr Vs area. And, it couldnt  see how 
someone other than Mr V would have been  able to order  and receive the new card and PIN. 
One of our investigators  considered Mr Vs complaint. He didnt  find Mr Vs testimony  to be 
persuasive. He found it unusual  that Mr V had stopped using or monitoring the account 
during the period which coincided with the fraudulent activity. He noted  that Mr V had viewed 
Ks account via online banking  on an almost  daily basis  prior to the disputed activity  but had 
stopped completely until the day the transactions were reported as fraudulent.  He also 
questioned how Mr V was able to keep his business  running without using the account.  
Mr V said he couldnt provide any evidence he was away caring  for a relative because  he 
was staying with family  and didnt need to spend  any money. 
Our investigator obtained bank statements showing Mr V had other bank  accounts  and was 
using them in his home city during October  2016. Mr V then said he was confused about his 
location during  this time and accepts  that he was probably at home rather than caring for his 
sick relative. He then explained his lack of account monitoring on having lost access  to his 
mobile banking  application after changing  phones.
Finally, our investigator didnt think the transactions followed a typical  pattern of fraudulent  
transactions and had taken place in an area, although far from Mr Vs home, that he has 
links to. 
Mr V didnt agree with our investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
matter  as the final stage  in our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive reached the same 
outcome for broadly  the same reasons as our investigator.
Ref: DRN84783732Where the evidence is inconclusive or contradictory,  I need  to make a finding on the balance  
of probabilities, that is to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened.  
In order to hold Mr V responsible for these transactions it is for Santander to show that they 
were correctly authenticated and that Mr V consented to them.  
Santander arent able to produce electronic records to conclusively demonstrate the use of 
both the card and PIN, given the passage of time since the transactions. But, like the 
investigator, Im satisfied  that some  of the transactions, such as those carried out at cash  
machines, would have required a card and PIN. And, as its accepted  by all sides  that a new 
card and PIN was sent to Mr V the dispute  isnt so much about whether the new card and 
PIN was obtained but who obtained  them and how. 
Santander are also unable to evidence what information was required for someone to order  
a new card and PIN for Mr V. I think  its likely  that some personal information would have 
been required  though  I dont rule out that this might have been the kind of information  that 
could be fairly easily  known to a third party familiar  with Mr V and his finances. But its likely 
account details  would  have been required  along  with some personal information  and, quite 
possibly, some bank specific security information. I think then its unlikely Ks accounts have 
been victim  to the actions of an unknown fraudster.  There isnt an explanation as to how 
such a person could  have  obtained  enough  information about Mr K or his business.
I cant conclusively rule out someone having intercepted the card and PIN  though it seems 
likely they were delivered through Mr Vs letterbox  and he hasnt implicated anyone with 
access to his home. Its difficult to then see how someone else would have been  able to 
access the card and PIN. Particularly as Mr V does actually seem  to have been at home  on 
the dates the card and PIN were delivered.
We, as an informal dispute  resolution service,  rely heavily on the testimony  provided by both 
parties and, as such, the credibility of that testimony is often important to determining an 
outcome.
Im afraid that, like our investigator, I dont find key elements of Mr Vs account of events to 
be particularly credible.
Mr V, both to the bank  and our service,  explained his sudden  and unusual end to both using 
and monitoring the account in question  on being  away from his home city caring for a sick 
relative. But later, when  confronted with evidence to contradict this, hes changed his mind 
about where he was during the disputed activity. This then also calls into question Mr Vs 
stated reasons for not using  the account during the period of dispute. And Im mindful Mr V 
has presented no alternative explanation for why he didnt use the account in the same way 
he had before.
Recently Mr V told our service that due to changing  mobile phones  he lost access  to his 
internet banking and didnt feel the need to reinstate it. Given  how regularly Mr V checked 
the account prior to the disputed activity, and the other methods he could have (and 
eventually did) use to check his account I dont  find this explanation to be particularly  
convincing. 
I also dont find it plausible that Mr V could have  forgotten about his whereabouts as, 
according to the banks  notes, he provided this version of events the day after the last 
Ref: DRN84783733disputed transaction.  The information  then must have  been fresh  in his mind  at the time. And 
so Im left in some doubt as to Mr Vs testimony  as a whole. 
Like our investigator Im also concerned by the significant similarities  between this and 
previous claims which took place  under  almost  identical circumstances. I cant rule out Mr V 
having been the victim of fraud on multiple  occasions. But given that similar concerns have 
been raised about the validity of those  claims too, I find this very unlikely. 
Given the above Im satisfied that Mr V more likely  than not authorised  these transactions 
and Santander  are entitled  to hold him responsible  for them. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V on behalf  of 
K to accept  or reject  my decision before 11 January 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8478373