K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains Preferred Mortgages Limited  (PML) sent him a letter  in November  2018  
telling him it had not been reporting  his mortgage account to a credit reference agency  (the 
relevant CRA) since it applied a default  in April 2008, and that it would start reporting from 
November 2018  the status  of his account.  Mr J wants  matters put right.
background
Mr J feels the failure to report his mortgage account  between 2008 and 2018 has affected 
his credit score and increased the rates hes received when taking out credit since, though 
he accepts that hes unable to prove any financial loss.
PML doesnt think it has done anything wrong and doesnt think  Mr J has lost out as it has 
seen no evidence for example that Mr J has had to borrow  at higher rates. PML said that its 
change of position in relation to reporting was due to a policy change.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  She said that she noted  from 
early 2014  Mr J had managed to keep his mortgage  account up-to-date.  She also noted the 
default wouldve  dropped off automatically  in April 2014, meaning  for four years  and eight 
months he couldve had his mortgage account showing on his credit file that he was keeping  
up to date with every payment.
The investigator didnt  think she could say  based  on what  she had seen - that Mr Js credit 
card accounts and car finance had been negatively impacted by PMLs actions. So she only 
considered an award for the stress  and inconvenience he suffered. She noted  that Mr J had 
told her he had been working hard to get his credit  score back  up, and she could see hed 
been overpaying on his mortgage to make  sure he never gets back  into the same position. 
The investigator said that Mr J had put in a lot of effort to improve  his score and hed gone 
above his contractual agreement, yet this hadnt  been reflected on his credit file as it was 
never reported. The investigator  thought  this was a big stress for him. She also felt the eight 
months it took for PML to clearly explain things added to Mr Js stress and said £300 for his 
trouble and upset  was fair.
Mr J said he would accept that, but PML disagreed. It said it had a duty to report  correctly,  
not that it had a duty to report  at all. Whilst the 'Default' status on Mr J's credit profile ended  
in April 2014, it did not restart the reporting  of his mortgage account  information to the 
relevant CRA until November 2018. This means, from 2014 to 2018,  the only information 
that would  have appeared on the relevant  CRA's  reports, would have been the total 
outstanding balance of the mortgage at that time. And as Mr J had no payment arrears  
during this period, it says no detriment would  have been caused  to his credit  file as the 
information is factually  correct. 
An ombudsman with this service sent both Mr J and PML her provisional assessment of how 
this complaint should be fairly resolved. PML accepted that £500  compensation  was fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. But the first ombudsman  is currently unable  to continue 
her consideration of this complaint. Therefore, in order to ensure  a fair outcome, Ive been 
asked to look at the complaint and decide how it should be resolved. Ive formed  my own 
view.
Ref: DRN89925032Upon reviewing the file, it appeared that PML was refusing  to comply with the 
recommendation of the first ombudsman to report Mr Js mortgage balance and payments 
for the last six years, not that it wasnt possible as it suggested. I asked PML to confirm this 
and in its emails it repeated what it had said in response to the first provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes consideration of what  the 
parties said in response to the first provisional decision.
There isnt a positive  duty to report  an account  to a CRA.  The Information Commissioners  
Office has published  guidance to lenders on this topic, including  the 2014 guidance 
Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements  and Defaults at Credit  Reference 
Agencies. In the guidance,  it says:
Lenders will report the default amount and the default date to the CRAs.  The current  
balance then shows the actual amount due (which may include interest and charges)  and 
must be updated over time until the account  is satisfied (settled).
I also note that the very first principle  set out in the guidance is that Data  that is reported  on 
your credit file must be fair, accurate, consistent, complete and up to date.
As PML had been  reporting the account to one of the CRAs  it needed to continue doing so; 
the key words being 'must be updated  over time'. PML said in its response  to the first 
provisional decision that this phrase meant updating the arrears and the default itself, which 
it said it did until April 2014 when the default was settled. After this, PML said that there was 
no obligation  to report further
I disagree. The guidance says that the reporting  must continue until the account   not the 
default - is settled; in other words, until the mortgage is paid in full or in some other way 
closed. This interpretation  is also consistent  with the first principle  of the guidance   the data 
once reported  must  be consistent, complete and up to date.  Also, if my reading of the 
guidance is incorrect, it remains unclear why PML decided that it should restart reporting  
from November 2018, given that the duty is to report accurately, not to report.
I note that in response to the first ombudsmans provisional decision, PML said that it was 
unable to update the CRA  file, but its comments made it clear that it was refusing to do so, 
not that it wasnt possible. Im disappointed to see this as financial businesses are required 
to comply with final decisions of this service  if accepted by a complainant. If a final decision 
is accepted requiring PML to amend the relevant  CRA file, failure to do so can lead to 
enforcement and action by the regulator.
I think that its fair and reasonable  that PML report Mr Js payments and his mortgage 
account balance  to the relevant CRA for each month  for the last six years, and I reiterate  
that its given  no explanation why it isnt possible to do this; only that it doesnt want to do so.
Ref: DRN89925033It isnt certain whether  Mr J has suffered financially due to PMLs failure to update his credit 
file between April 2014 and November 2018.  The terms on which credit is provided are 
complex and usually not significantly  impacted by one single factor   the overall position is 
generally considered  by lenders. Mr J has tried hard to get his finances sorted since the 
default and thought that his credit  file would reflect this. Its clear  that Mr J was very upset 
when he found  out that this wasnt the case,  and the poor handling of this whole matter  by 
PML hasnt helped.  I can see both parties  agree compensation of £500 would be fair and 
reasonable to reflect  the trouble  and upset he has experienced,  and I agree.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr J accepted my view and said that he felt PMLs  
response to the earlier provisional decision of my colleague showed its callous and 
dismissive approach. He explained that updating  his credit report would be a relief for him. 
PML said that it was discussing how to update the credit reports with the CRAs as it had 
understood that it wasnt possible  to change historic reports, but it was willing to do so if 
possible. It later confirmed that it accepted  my provisional decision and had liaised with a 
CRA to update  Mr Js credit file, but couldnt  be sure when the CRA would do so.
In light of the comments received and a further  consideration  of the complaint, I think  my 
findings in the provisional decision  are fair and reasonable and will be my final decision. I 
accept that PML cant control when the CRAs update  their files but it can control when it 
asks for the amendment. PML should  contact the CRAs to amend  Mr Js credit  records 
within 28 days from notification of acceptance of the final decision if it has not done so 
already.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Preferred Mortgages  Limited  to 
pay Mr J £500; and report to the relevant CRA Mr Js monthly  payments  and the monthly 
balance of his mortgage account  over the last six years within 28 days  of notification  of 
acceptance of the final decision.  Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 2 August  2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8992503