K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 2004 and in 2007 when she took out a further advance. Mrs C says Bank  of Scotland  
plc (BoS) mis-sold  her MPPI. 
The type of MPPI policies  Mrs C was sold are called Total Mortgage Protection  Plans  
(TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a 
form of MPPI),  Life Cover  and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
Mrs C only complained about the MPPI cover so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed  so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
BoS doesnt have paperwork available from the time it sold the policies  to Mrs C  but 
this in itself isnt unusual as businesses  arent  required to keep records  indefinitely.  But 
BoS has been able to show  that the sales process it used at the times it sold the two 
policies presented the MPPI  as an optional  product, and gained proper consent to take it 
out. I havent seen  anything  to suggest that BoS did anything differently when it sold Mrs 
C her two policies, so I think its likely BoS made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out 
the MPPI  and she chose to take it out  although I can if she cant  remember  this as it 
was so long ago.
BoS probably recommended the MPPI to Mrs C so it would have had to check that the 
MPPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances when the 
policies were sold, I think that they were. For example Mrs C wasnt  affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover and she seems  to have had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs C about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But as I think its likely  she chose  to take out the policies - it looks  like 
she wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like they would have  been  useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like they were  affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mrs C some  of the commission she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types  of 
Ref: DRN85112542mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Cs mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any 
of the commission  Mrs C paid for the MPPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8511254