K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC froze his current  account  and stopped  him 
having access to his funds.  And this meant he had to borrow  funds from a relative  to finalise 
a house purchase.   
background
Mr R says that Barclays unfairly blocked his current account between  the 9 and 16 April 
2018. This meant he couldnt use access his funds  and needed to borrow  money  to make a 
house purchase. 
Mr R has a current account  with Barclays. On the 9 April 2018 Mr Rs account was restricted 
and he had no access to the funds in his account.  On the 10 April 2018 Mr R discovered the 
restriction and contacted Barclays on several occasions over the next week  but wasnt 
provided with an explanation.  On the 16 April 2018  Mr Rs account was unrestricted and his 
funds were made available. 
Barclays investigated and said theyd acted fairly in restricting  Mr Rs account. And didnt 
think they needed to do anymore.
As Mr R didnt  agree with Barclays  decision he asked us to investigate.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Rs complaint. They said Barclays had adhered  to 
their legal and regulatory  obligations in restricting Mr Rs account. And once Barclays had 
completed the relevant processes all Mr Rs funds were made available  to him.
Barclays agreed with our investigators  outcome.  Mr R didnt accept the outcome saying:
-there was no fraud or illegal activity or any evidence  of concerns to justify  
blocking of the account
-Barclays were  notified  about  the large transaction  prior to the 9 April 2018
-theyd allowed previous large transactions to process without any problems
-hed complied with all requests from Barclays to ensure the transactions 
would be made
-Barclays havent explained why they restricted the account
 
As Mr R didnt  agree its been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why. 
Although I appreciate that Mr R is unhappy  with the restriction placed on his account, 
businesses have a legal  obligation  to protect  the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations.  Mr R agreed  to this term as a customer and its a 
reasonable term. Im satisfied that Barclays were acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it reviewed 
Mr Rs account. Having  looked at the account  activity I can see why Barclays  had concerns 
Ref: DRN82322442and decided to review his account.  So I dont think its done anything wrong when it blocked 
Mr Rs account and didnt  allow  him access to his funds.  
I understand that my decision will be disappointing to Mr R, but I dont think  Barclays  need to 
do anything further  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8232244