K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B had a travel  insurance policy with Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. (Mapfre).
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the repatriation and service given to them by Mapfre when Mrs 
B fell ill abroad. Theyre also unhappy that Mapfre refuses to pay the cost of Mr Bs 
accommodation. 
background
In November 2017, Mr and Mrs B were  abroad  when Mrs B fell ill. The result of the tests  
undertaken was that Mrs B had a brain tumour.  Mr B was in early, and regular, contact with 
Mapfre for medical assistance  under  the insurance  policy. Mrs B was repatriated  back  to the 
UK on 1 December 2017.
Mr B is unhappy with Mapfre's  lack of action and poor communication throughout the time 
Mrs B was in hospital. He also feels it shouldve confirmed  cover for Mrs B sooner than it did. 
He's said that Mapfres actions delayed Mrs Bs repatriation and therefore the start of her 
life-prolonging treatment.  It also increased  the stress on Mr and Mrs B and their daughter  at 
what was already an incredibly difficult time.
Mr B called Mapfre numerous times  and so did his daughter  and each time they feel they 
were given poor or lacking information.  
Mr B feels  it was only when it was suggested that Mapfre  was in breach of their duty of care 
and theyd escalate the matter through legal proceedings did Mapfre  start to deal with the 
matter in a reasonable manner. At that point, a single person took responsibility, rather than 
several different  members of staff, which gave  a sense of continuity and progress.
Mr B complained to Mapfre. It said that, having reviewed the matter, it thought the 
repatriation mission went smoothly once launched.  However, Mapfre  accepted:
-it couldve made a decision on cover for the claim a little sooner; and
-it agreed the communication with Mr B and Mr and Mrs Bs daughter  could and 
shouldve been more comprehensive so their expectations were  properly managed.  
Mapfre apologised and paid £300  to Mr and Mrs B for the upset and inconvenience caused 
by this. Having  said this, Mapfre said that it couldnt  find evidence that these things had 
directly impacted on Mrs Bs treatment or repatriation. 
It also agreed to cover  some  more of the expenses that Mr and Mrs B had claimed,  such as 
fuel costs and international call charges, even though  it didnt agree these were  covered 
under the policy.  This was a gesture of goodwill  as Mr B kept his accommodation costs to a 
minimum by staying with a friend. But it didnt agree to pay Mr Bs accommodation costs. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and so he came to our service. In summary, Mr B raised his 
complaint with our service  which broadly  falls into the following four categories:
1.Mapfre hadnt paid the invoice for accommodation for where Mr B stayed while  Mrs B 
was in hospital.
Ref: DRN839204622.Delays in handling the claim initially in that Mapfre  took too long to:
a.accept the claim; and
b.become the main  point of contact for medical expenses.
3.The repatriation of Mrs B to the UK hospital  wasnt planned or prepared  for early 
enough. This delayed the start of Mrs Bs life-prolonging treatment in the UK. 
4.Poor communications throughout.
And he explained to our service that hed like Mapfre  to do the following to put things right:
1.Pay the cost of accommodation and compensation; and
2.Revise protocols and training for staff dealing with similar cases  so that others dont 
suffer the stress, strain and worry Mr and Mrs B and their family endured. 
Our investigator looked into the matters raised.
expenses  accommodation costs
He explained  that policyholders  are meant to behave as if they are uninsured.  This means  
the insurer doesnt owe their policyholder for any money saved. And, although hosting Mr B 
mightve increased the costs to his friend of things  like food and utility bills, these arent 
covered by Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy.
Mr B hasnt incurred a financial loss  the invoice for accommodation  hasnt been  paid  and 
the loss he claims isnt covered under the policy. So our investigator didnt feel able to say 
Mapfre had acted unreasonably in declining  this expense.
delays - the time it took for Mapfre to accept the claim
Our investigator thought Mapfre shouldve asked for Mrs Bs medical history from her GP 
sooner than it did. However, as Mapfre still needed to wait for the reports from the treating 
doctor, the overall  delay here was one day.
delays - the time it took for Mapfre to become the main  point  of contact for medical expenses
Our investigator explained that when an insurer confirms cover, they usually  place a 
guarantee of payment (GOP)  with the treating hospital. This tells the hospital:
-The insurer has accepted liability  for outstanding and future medical  bills. 
-The hospital should deal with the insurer directly.
Mapfre accepted  the claim on 22 November but it wasnt until the 24th that the GOP was 
placed. Ultimately, Mapfre needed to send  a specific form to their agents before theyd place 
the GOP.  And it didnt do this until 24 November. Our investigator  felt this had caused  a 
delay of around 36 hours. During that time,  Mr B was being  chased for outstanding 
payments and was worrying about rising medical costs.  
delays - summary
Overall, our investigator agreed that there were avoidable delays  one day in confirming 
cover and around 36 hours in placing the GOP with the treating hospital. So he took this into 
account when  considering  Mapfres overall offer of compensation.
Ref: DRN83920463the repatriation  of Mrs B to the UK hospital
Mr B and his daughter  are unhappy with how long this took. They  feel they had to drive the 
process forward at every  stage and plans werent  being made  proactively. For example, they 
feel Mapfre shouldve started the search  for a suitable UK hospital sooner than it did. At the 
time, they asked Mapfre to fly Mrs B home as quickly as possible and sort out Mrs Bs 
admission on the way or check her into an A&E department. But Mapfre  didnt do this.
Our investigator explained Mrs B was fit to fly on the 25 November but, at the request of the 
treating doctor,  the 27 November was the earliest suitable date for repatriation  to be 
arranged by air ambulance  the method  originally  supported by the treating doctors.
However, as soon as plans for the air ambulance became clearer, the treating doctors didnt 
feel this was appropriate for Mrs B. The air ambulance  plans were  then abandoned and the 
search began  for a commercial flight and medical escort on 28 November. This was booked  
on the 29 November  and the repatriation  went ahead  smoothly  on 1 December.
Our investigator explained that insurers have to comply with NHS  procedures when flying 
patients home and so Mapfre  didnt have the option  of arranging a bed before itd been 
confirmed that Mrs B was fit to fly. 
Our investigator felt the evidence suggested  that Mapfre worked closely with the treating 
doctors to arrange a repatriation that was acceptable to the treating doctors. And asked  their 
medical team to arrange bed admission  on the 25 November  immediately after they spoke 
to the treating doctor  who confirmed Mrs B was fit to fly.
So he felt he hadnt seen any evidence that Mapfre  caused a material  delay in getting Mrs B 
repatriated, carried  out the repatriation inappropriately or failed to rely on the treating 
doctors advice. And he didnt uphold their complaint here.
poor communication
Our investigator felt it was clear that Mapfre couldve  done more to communicate with Mr B 
and manage the familys expectations. So he agreed that Mapfre  didnt do enough  to 
communicate effectively   which caused  distress  to Mr and Mrs B.
compensation
Overall, our investigator thought Mapfre should  pay more compensation to Mr and Mrs B 
than itd offered,  to reflect the delay in confirming cover and lodging  the GOP as well as the 
poor communication. He recommended it pay £450.
Mapfre accepted  the investigators view but Mr B disagrees. Hes spoken to our investigator 
at length about this and has made  a number of points. Mr B explains that hes tried to take 
the emotion of Mrs Bs condition away from this situation. And, even having done  this, he still 
comes back to the following points: 
Mapfre demonstrated a lack of competence  for example, with the delay in sharing 
information with the GP.
He and his daughter  had to drive Mapfre throughout, they had to provide information,  
respond to requests   irrespective of whether they were reasonable  and be an 
Ref: DRN83920464active party  on the ground to achieve real progress. He questions what wouldve 
been the position if this hadnt happened.
He shouldve been sat next to his wife, comfortable in the knowledge  that Mapfre  is 
competent and doing everything within a reasonable timescale.  For example, Mr B 
was being chased  for costs by the hospital while Mapfre delayed in confirming cover 
to both Mr B and then the hospital itself.
He questions the training and competence levels of the staff at Mapfre.
His lack of confidence was reaffirmed  at every stage of the process. Even in Mapfres 
final response letter which responded to his complaint it said I hope this letter  finds  
you well and feeling better following your experience in South Africa. This was even 
though Mrs B has a terminal illness and Mr B has been  the key correspondent  and 
is a policy holder  in this matter. Again, this undermined any confidence Mr B had in 
Mapfre or their investigation of this complaint. 
Taking all of this into account,  Mr B would like an award of compensation which  is at a level 
that will persuade  Mapfre  to listen to his concerns  and improve  their way of working. 
Our investigator has explained  that these points  dont change  his view. And that as an 
ombudsman scheme   not the regulator  we arent in a position  to require a business  to 
change its processes or training or even make  suggestions about this. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the points made before  arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr and Mrs B that I think the investigator  has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold the complaint in this matter  in so far as Mr B would like his 
accommodation costs  to be covered. And I dont  agree theres  sufficient evidence  for me to 
be able to say that repatriation  was delayed by Mapfres action, or inaction. But I do agree 
with our investigator that Mapfre should  pay compensation to Mr and Mrs B of £450 for the 
distress and inconvenience they suffered as a result of the poor service  given  by Mapfre and 
the delays in confirming cover  and placing the GOP with the treating hospital.  
I think our investigator explained the matter and his view clearly  and thoroughly  in his written 
correspondence and calls with Mr B. I dont feel theres much I can usefully add to what has 
already been said, particularly  regarding  the accommodation expenses claimed and delays 
in confirming cover and placing the GOP. I would just make the following comments. 
Firstly, I should explain  that the role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  compensation, where appropriate, to put things right for 
that consumer. But we dont perform the role of the industry regulator  so I dont have  any 
power to make rules  for financial businesses or to punish them. I wanted to reassure Mr and 
Mrs B that this doesnt mean I have  reviewed this complaint and have decided that 
Ref: DRN83920465recommendations to change  the way Mapfre conducts its business arent appropriate.  
Instead, it means this simply  isnt something Im permitted  to consider as an ombudsman or 
cover in my decision. Im sorry this means  our service wont be able to assist them as fully 
as theyd like in this matter.
Ive looked closely  at Mr Bs detailed timeline  of the issues theyve faced with Mapfre. I think  
its clear that the service  they received from Mapfre fell short  of what anyone  in their situation  
would wish for or reasonably expect. Mapfre accepts this, and has agreed to pay £450 to Mr 
and Mrs B for its failings  in this matter, as recommended by our investigator.
I need to consider if this is sufficient for the distress  and inconvenience that Mr and Mrs B 
have suffered, and the extent to which Mapfre is to blame for this.
Mr B has explained what  happened in this matter, both in detail and eloquently. And I think 
its fair to say that the amount of distress  and worry Mr and Mrs B, as well as those close  to 
them, were  suffering at this time was palpable. 
I think Mr and Mrs B  and their daughter  received poor service from Mapfre  at a time 
when they were vulnerable, worried and expected theyd  receive  help and support. But I 
have to distinguish  between the distress  and upset that Mr and Mrs B suffered because of 
Mrs B falling ill and receiving a devastating  diagnosis while abroad and its consequences,  
which Mapfre isnt responsible for, with what Mapfre did or failed to do that mightve added to 
that distress.  
I think its right that Mapfre should  compensate Mr and Mrs B for the impact of its poor 
service. However, our awards are designed to compensate consumers, not punish 
organisations. This is even if the punishment element  of the compensation is only to an 
extent which  Mr B feels would make Mapfre listen to what it needs to do to prevent other 
consumers suffering in the same way him and his family have. As Ive explained above, it 
isnt within  my power to punish financial businesses or make rules or recommendations for 
them to follow. 
Ive considered Mapfres records. I can see the enquiries it had to make, and also the efforts  
it made to ensure  Mrs B was treated appropriately and repatriated as soon as safely 
possible, taking  into account the seriousness of her condition, the recommendations of the 
treating doctors  and also the requirements placed  on them  by the NHS when arranging a 
bed for Mrs Bs return  to the UK. I can also note the plan for repatriation  was changed part 
way through due to the concern raised  by the treating doctor  that Mrs B shouldnt return 
using an air ambulance and a commercial flight,  with escorts, would be more appropriate 
instead. Even so, there was clearly  a lack of communication  and conflicting information  given 
 not just between Mapfre and Mr and Mrs B but also between Mapfre and its agent. 
Confusing or lacking information was given on a number of occasions and Mapfre  often 
failed to properly  inform Mr B and his daughter about the plan it was following  and potential  
issues that might crop up to derail  the plan. It also failed  to explain the reasons for the steps  
within the plan and why certain arrangements couldnt be put in place straight  away.  For 
example, arranging a hospital bed in the UK at a suitable facility  should only be done once 
confirmation has been given that Mrs B is fit to fly. 
This created a situation  whereby Mr B and his daughter lost any confidence  in Mapfre and its 
ability to organise  a safe and timely  repatriation.  It also gave the impression that Mapfres 
internal processes which might work in most  straightforward cases  of repatriation were  
Ref: DRN83920466actually getting  in the way in a more complex,  time sensitive  situation. Even when this wasnt 
actually always the case. For example, when waiting to arrange an NHS bed, Mapfre was 
following NHS guidance but didnt  explain this to Mr B or his daughter.
I can imagine  that all Mr and Mrs B wanted was for Mrs B to return to the UK to start her 
treatment as quickly as possible and that, as a result of the communication issues,  Mapfre  
was simply seen as an obstacle  to this.
Having said this, I can also see that, in the background, Mapfre went to considerable lengths  
to ensure Mrs B was fit to fly and then arrange for Mr and Mrs B to be repatriated  as soon as 
possible, taking  into account all options   irrespective  of costs  including an air ambulance  
and a commercial flight  with escorts. For example, when the treating hospital suggested that 
Mrs B didnt need a ground ambulance transfer and this was cancelled by Mapfres  agents, 
Mapfre was clear that its medical  team would make the ultimate decision about whether a 
ground ambulance  was necessary having  satisfied itself about Mrs Bs condition. And it took 
the time to make this assessment before confirming this rather  than simply accepting the 
cheaper option. 
I agree  that Mapfre was responsible for two delays   one of a day (in confirming cover)  and 
the other of 36 hours (in placing  the GOP with the treating  hospital) which caused distress  
and inconvenience  in this matter. But some  of the key issues  here were caused by failings in 
Mapfres communication. And this was a reoccurring theme  in the way Mapfre  handled this 
matter up to the point  when  Mr and Mrs Bs daughter threatened to take legal action. This 
was a period of approximately  nine days in total. After this, the service given by Mapfre 
improved, although  there were  still areas  that fell short of what  Mr and Mrs B expected.
So, taking all the various service issues into account, I can see why Mr B and his daughter 
would suggest  that, but for their assistance  and interventions driving this matter forward, 
repatriation wouldve been  delayed beyond 1 December. Having said this, I think it likely that 
any insurer would try to use, as best it can, the resources available to it  including  someone 
in Mr Bs position at the hospital where  Mrs B was admitted  to obtain the information it 
needs to speed this process up. Even  so, I think  its very difficult to say what wouldve 
happened had they not assisted Mapfre at all. And I dont think its likely that they wouldnt 
have assisted Mapfre at all  their focus was to return  Mrs B to the UK as quickly as 
possible. So Im certain  that their assistance  wouldve been provided irrespective of their 
confidence in Mapfre  albeit I accept this might have been  to a different level. And I cant 
point to any evidence  which  I believe would allow me to safely say that its more  likely the 
repatriation wouldve been  unreasonably delayed but for Mr B and his daughters 
involvement and assistance,  in part or at all. 
Ive thought about Mapfres service  very carefully, looking at what it was responsible for and 
balancing the impact  of that against the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
gone through even if those issues hadnt  arisen. Having done so, I agree  Mapfre  should pay 
Mr and Mrs B compensation  of £450 as recommended by our investigator.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome. It might  be they decide to 
pursue matters in court  or through the regulator. But my decision brings to an end what  we  
in trying to informally resolve  their dispute with Mapfre  can do for them.
Finally, Id like to say Im genuinely sorry for what Mr and Mrs B have been through  and the 
impact it has had, and is continuing  to have,  on them and those  close  to them. I cannot 
Ref: DRN83920467imagine how difficult this has been and Im sorry that our service isnt able to assist in the 
main way theyd hoped we could.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in 
this matter in that I require  Mapfre Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. to  pay £450 compensation to them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8392046