K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Northern Bank Limited  (trading  as Danske  Bank) mis-sold a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mrs T in 2003. The policy was taken out
when Mrs T was applying  for a mortgage, and provided cover if she couldnt work because
of accident, sickness  or unemployment.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 October  2019. Ive summarised my 
provisional findings below:
-I said the main questions I needed to consider were:
If Northern Bank gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the 
product it recommended  was suitable  for Mrs Ts needs?
Did Northern Bank give Mrs T the information  she needed to decide  whether 
to take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I needed to consider 
whether Mrs T was worse  off as a result. That is, would she have done something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been  any problems with 
the sale?
-Mrs T had said the PPI wasnt explained to her when she took it out, and that 
Northern Bank didnt give her a proper choice. I said I couldnt be sure what  was 
discussed between  Mrs T and Northern Bank when  the policy was sold.  I was also 
mindful that these  events took place many  years ago, and that exact recollections of 
what happened can fade over time.
Northern Bank hadnt been able to provide copies of the documents  that were 
completed when  Mrs T applied for her mortgage.  But it had provided samples of the
documents it says wouldve been used at the time.  On balance, I thought it was likely 
that the samples were representative  of what Mrs T wouldve completed when she 
was applying for her mortgage.
The mortgage application included a separate section about PPI. Mrs T wouldve had 
to decide the level of cover she wanted,  and also sign that section of the form to 
show that she wanted the cover. Without anything else to support what  Mrs T had 
told me, I didnt think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say that Northern Bank  
didnt make her aware that the PPI was optional.
-Northern Bank had accepted that it advised Mrs T to take out the policy and it didnt  
look like it was unsuitable for her based  on what Id seen of her circumstances  at the 
time. This was because:
Mrs T was eligible  for the policy given  her circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
Ref: DRN82496462Mrs T had said she wasnt entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was 
off work because of sickness or accident,  but that she had life insurance 
cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Northern Banks recommendation to take the PPI 
was suitable for Mrs T because she had life insurance cover.  But her life 
insurance policy wouldve  only paid out in the event of Mrs Ts death, 
whereas the PPI covered  her if she was off work sick or made redundant.
So I wasnt  persuaded that Mrs Ts life insurance policy  meant Northern 
Banks advice to buy the PPI was unsuitable.
Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (such 
as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions, or those who 
were self-employed). As Mrs T could have benefited  from the full extent of the 
cover I thought it unlikely she needed better  advice or information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations.
I couldnt be sure that the cost of the policy was made clear to Mrs T before 
she agreed to buy the PPI. But the policy was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable.  So I thought  it unlikely Mrs T would  have  made a 
different decision if better  information about  the policy cost had been 
provided.
It was possible the information Northern Bank gave Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it
should have been. But Mrs T wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy seemed to have  been affordable. So I thought  it unlikely Mrs T would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I thought  she would still 
have taken out the policy.
Overall, this meant I didnt  consider Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.
Mrs T didnt  make any further representations in response to my provisional decision, and 
neither did Northern Bank.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Caroline Stirling
Ref: DRN82496463ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249646