K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Scottish Widows  Limited (Scottish Widows). Hes unhappy Scottish 
Widows paid his late brothers pension fund to his daughter  after he passed away.  Mr M 
says his brother  intended that his pension be shared between him and his two sisters after 
his death. 
background
Mr C had a Personal  Pension Account. The trustees  of the pension were  Scottish  Widows.
On 18 February 2015 Mr C sadly passed  away.  He died without leaving a valid Will. Mr Cs 
daughter, whom Ill refer to as Mrs J, later became the legal personal  representative  of Mr 
Cs estate. Mrs J appointed solicitors to act in the administration of Mr Cs estate.
Scottish Widows  was later informed of Mr Cs death.  It wrote to Mrs J explaining that to settle 
Mr Cs plan it needed to see his death certificate.  Scottish Widows said that once  it received  
this it would issue details  of the benefits available and its requirements  to settle the claim.  
The solicitors acting  on behalf of Mr Cs estate later provided Scottish Widows with Mr Cs 
death certificate. They also asked for details of Mr Cs pension.
Scottish Widows  responded to the solicitors. In summary it:
said the value  of Mr Cs fund as a little over £9,000
confirmed Mr Cs plan was subject  to the rules  of its Personal  Pension Account and 
didnt form part of Mr Cs estate
explained the rules defined  the groups of persons (potential beneficiaries)  to whom 
the lump sum death benefit could  be paid and provided it with discretion to decide 
who would benefit from within  these groups. It said those groups were certain 
classes of relative,  financial dependants, those named in a Will, legal representatives 
and individuals  nominated by the plan holder
asked for a copy of Mr Cs Will (or confirmation if there wasnt one) and for a 
Notification of Potential Beneficiaries Form to be completed
In April 2015 the solicitors  for Mr Cs estate wrote to Scottish Widows. They confirmed Mr C 
had died without  a Will and that under the Rules of Intestacy, Mrs J (Mr Cs daughter)  was 
the sole beneficiary. The solicitors also provided a completed copy of the Notification  of 
Potential Beneficiaries Form. The form confirmed:
Mr C had no spouse/civil partner
Mr Cs child was his daughter, Mrs J.
Mr Cs sibling was a sister, whom Ill refer to as Mrs S
Mr Cs grandchildren were Mrs Js children
Mr C had no financial dependants
On 5 May 2015  Scottish  Widows wrote to the solicitors for Mr Cs estate.  It confirmed that 
based on the information provided it intended to pay the death  benefit available to Mrs J. 
Scottish Widows  confirmed its decision  was made  using its discretionary powers. The death 
benefit payment  was made to Mrs J on 20 May 2015.
Ref: DRN82496482In July 2015 the solicitors for Mr Cs estate wrote  to Mrs S and confirmed Scottish Widows 
had decided the person  who should receive  the death benefit from Mr Cs pensions  was Mrs 
J.
Mr M wrote to Scottish Widows in late July 2015,  saying he was doing  so in his capacity as 
Mr Cs brother and on behalf of Mr Cs two sisters. Mr M said his understanding was Mr C 
had declared that if anything  happened  to him, he wanted his pension  to be paid to his 
brother and sisters equally. Mr M asked Scottish Widows to confirm it had considered this 
declaration and asked for a copy of this to be provided. He also asked Scottish Widows to 
explain why it had paid the death benefit  to Mrs J who he said was Mr Cs estranged 
daughter. Additional information was also requested.
Scottish Widows  replied  to Mr M, confirming it didnt hold any expression of wish (EoW) 
made by Mr C. It explained the death  benefit  was paid out further  to information provided by 
the solicitors acting for Mr Cs estate.  Scottish  Widows  also said it had discretion to decide 
who to pay the death benefit  to, and in the absence of a Notification of Potential  
Beneficiaries form or expression of wish, it would generally look to make payments to the 
deceaseds surviving spouse or children.
Mr M responded to Scottish Widows saying he strongly believed it had been misled  by Mrs 
J. He advised  that his solicitor wanted  to see how Scottish Widows  had reached  its decision 
and the documents it relied on. Mr M said that based on a conversation hed had with Mr C 
he knew Mr C wanted his pension to go to him and his sisters  to ensure Mrs J didnt get it. 
In September  2017, Mr Cs second daughter whom Ill refer to as Mrs E wrote  to Scottish 
Widows, confirming she was Mr Cs eldest  daughter.
Mr M contacted the solicitors of Mr Cs estate and asked for a copy of Mr Cs letter of 
wishes to be sent to him. The solicitors replied and said this couldnt be supplied as this was 
a confidential  document.
In November 2017 Mrs E wrote to Scottish  Widows  again. She said thered clearly  been 
some wrongdoing and asked what action Scottish Widows intended to take.
Scottish Widows  responded to Mrs E and in summary said:
the death benefit was paid to Mrs J as the legal representative of Mr Cs estate 
following receipt of the grant of letters of administration and confirmation from the 
estates solicitors that Mrs J was the only person  entitled to the death benefit
it had settled the claim in accordance with the information provided at the time
if Mrs C felt she was entitled to a share of the benefits paid she would need to 
contact either Mrs J or the solicitors of Mr Cs estate  
Mr M wrote to Scottish Widows again in September 2018. In summary he said:
he could prove Mrs J had lied to the Court and deliberately withheld vital information  
from Scottish Widows
he enclosed a copy of Mrs Es birth certificate
Mrs J had failed to include Mrs E, himself or Mr Cs two sisters in the Notification  of 
Potential Beneficiaries Form
the solicitors for Mr Cs estate had turned down his request for a copy of Mr Cs 
letter of wishes which he said stated who Mr C wanted his pension  funds to go to
Ref: DRN82496483Scottish Widows  had paid the death  benefit to Mrs J based on false and incomplete 
information
Scottish Widows  should set aside its decision regarding the payments of the death 
benefit to Mrs J.
Scottish Widows  responded to Mr M, confirming its view that the issues  Mr M had raised 
were a civil matter. It maintained the death  benefit had been paid based on the grant of 
letters of administration  and information  received at that time. Scottish Widows suggested  Mr 
M seek  legal advice.
Mr M wrote to Scottish Widows again saying Mrs J failed  to inform it of the existence  of Mr 
Cs EoW letter or its contents. He said he didnt think Scottish Widows made its decision on 
who to pay the benefit to based on all the relevant information.
Further correspondence was exchanged,  and Mr M maintained that Scottish Widows 
decision go pay the death benefit  to Mrs J was wrong.  
Scottish Widows  provided its final response to Mr Ms concerns on 23 January 2019. In 
summary it said:
Mr M was not noted as a beneficiary on Mr Cs policy
as there  was nothing  on its files to indicate  Mr C had a spouse  and there was no 
EoW or Nomination, it sent a Notification of Potential Beneficiaries Form and asked 
for this to be competed and returned, together with a copy of Mr Cs Will if there was 
one
it received a certified copy  of the grant of letters of administration which named Mrs J 
as the legal personal representative of Mr Cs estate. The completed  Notification of 
Potential Beneficiaries Form  noted Mr Cs daughter, Mrs J and his sister, Mrs S
the rules provided  it with discretion  to decide  who should receive the death benefit in 
the absence of an EoW or Nomination
based on guidelines it had to follow it would pay out in the following order of priority: 
spouse, children,  siblings any financial dependants
based on information received from the solicitors  of Mr Cs estate it paid the death 
benefit to Mrs J, the daughter of Mr C and the legal representative of his estate
as legally authorised solicitors  it had no reason to question the information the 
solicitors of Mr Cs estate had provided
it could only act on the information  it was provided with and couldnt be expected to 
guess there may have  been a family dispute
although it had come to light that Mr C had another daughter,  if it had known this at 
the time of its decision, its possible it wouldve still reached the same outcome as 
Mrs J was the legal representative of Mr Cs estate
it wouldnt undo its decision  from 2015
Unhappy with Scottish Widows response Mr M referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators  reviewed the matter and didnt think  Mr Ms complaint was one we 
could consider. She didnt think he was an eligible complainant. Mr M disagreed  and the 
complaint was passed to me. 
Ref: DRN82496484Having reviewed the matter I concluded  Mr Ms complaint was one this service could 
consider and that he had a beneficial interest  in Mr Cs pension. However, I also explained 
that I didnt  think  Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. In summary I said:
Scottish Widows  was entitled to rely on the information provided by Mrs J and the 
solicitors for Mr Cs estate at the time its decision about the payment of the death 
benefit was made
based on the documents Scottish  Widows  was provided with it wasnt unreasonable 
for it to reach the decision it did about the payment of the death benefit
although several things had come  to light which gave rise to Mr Ms concerns about 
the information Scottish Widows had been provided with at the time of its decision,  
there wasnt any persuasive evidence that would make it reasonable for me to 
require Scottish Widows  to set aside its original  decision
Scottish Widows  had ultimate discretion to decide who the death  benefit was paid to
Mr Ms concerns about the false representations he felt Mrs J made  to secure  the 
grant of letters of administration werent matters for this service to determine. The 
same applied  to the EoW letter Mr M said Mrs J had refused to provide
although it had since come to light that Mr M believed Mrs B may have deliberately  
failed to provide  Scottish Widows with complete information before it reached its 
decision, this didnt alter the fact that Scottish  Widows decision was made 
reasonably at the time. So this service  wouldnt direct  Scottish  Widows to overturn its 
original decision or attempt to recover the monies already  paid out in respect of the 
death benefit
it wasnt my role to question a determination  made by a Court and, therefore, to 
replace the discretionary judgement Scottish Widows had already exercised with my 
own; providing Scottish Widows has directed itself correctly and reached a decision it 
could reasonably come to at the time by taking  into account  the factors  which  are 
relevant. I thought  it had 
I understood Mr M still disputed the accuracy and validity of the information Scottish 
Widows relied on. But despite these concerns I didnt think they invalidated  Scottish 
Widows decision  or meant that it was unreasonable.  Based on this I wouldnt be able 
to direct Scottish Widows to do anything further
I invited Mr M and Scottish Widows to respond. 
Scottish Widows  confirmed it had no further comments.
Mr M responded and in summary said:
it was a point  of law that where  a trustee  had made a decision based on a claim 
proven to be fraudulent, the trustee had to overturn their decision
Scottish Widows  should overturn its decision and pay the death benefit  to the rightful  
beneficiaries based  on the EoW  left by Mr C
although it was reasonable for Scottish Widows to rely on the Notification of Potential  
Beneficiaries Form to reach  its decision about  the payment  of the death  benefit, it 
also needed to consider the information he had provided showing Mrs J committed  
fraud in Court to get the grant  of letters of administration,  deliberately  withheld vital 
information from Scottish Widows about  potential beneficiaries  and failed to provide 
Mr Cs EoW  which confirmed he wanted his pension split between  his siblings
Ref: DRN82496485he didnt agree Scottish Widows  had considered  the relevant factors in reaching its 
decision about the payment of the death  benefit.  Specifically, it didnt consider Mr Cs 
eldest daughter or all of his siblings as potential  beneficiaries or Mr Cs EoW
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why, but before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken serious note of the correspondence, arguments and comments  made,  Ive limited my 
response to what I consider to be the issues central to this complaint. 
Mr M has made detailed submissions and Im grateful to him for taking the time to do so. Ive 
considered these submissions in their entirety. However, I trust Mr M will not take it as a 
discourtesy that my response focuses  solely  on what  I believe the key matters  to determine 
are. The purpose  of my decision isnt to comment on every  point raised.
Im mindful that Mr M has made references to the law to support his position. I think its 
important to make clear that the Financial  Ombudsman  Service isnt a court  of law- were an 
informal alternative. We take into account  the legal position, but we are not bound by it. 
However, the law requires us to decide  each case on the basis of our existing powers. Our 
service is set up under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Paragraph 228(2) 
states that:
A complaint is to be determined by reference to what is, in the opinion  of the ombudsman, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case.
Because of this we dont necessarily reach exactly the same  outcome as a court might in 
every case.  We may decide that fairness requires a different approach in a particular case.
The key considerations here are whether Scottish  Widows was entitled  to use its discretion 
in deciding to whom the late Mr Cs death  benefit would be paid. And if it was, did it exercise  
this discretion in a fair and reasonable way.
Where discretion is given  to a decision maker  here Scottish  Widows  it can be difficult  to 
challenge how that discretion has been exercised. Discretion is just that - the freedom to 
decide what should be done in a particular situation.  A discretionary decision maker needs  to 
take into account all relevant  and available factors and reach a decision which  is reasonable 
in the circumstances. In looking  at Scottish  Widows decision  it isnt for me to say if its the 
same decision  Id have  made  what I need  to think about is if the decision is one which a 
decision maker, acting  reasonably, could have  reached.
The scheme rules set out that Scottish Widows  can decide to whom  death benefits will be 
paid. The rules  do confirm  that a policy holder can provide Scottish Widows with authority, 
during their lifetime, for the death benefit to be applied to purchase a pension  for a named 
dependant. This is subject to the dependant being  the policy holders spouse or someone 
who is, to Scottish Widows satisfaction, dependent on the investor  at the time of their death.
However, the rules  go on to say that where no such authority is given, the death benefit will 
be paid to the investors legal personal  representative, unless the policy  holder has given 
authority to pay the death benefit to someone nominated.  The rules say this person must be 
Ref: DRN82496486chosen from the policy holders spouse,  children, parents, grandchildren, brothers, sisters, 
nephews and nieces  and dependents. 
Based on the rules  Im satisfied that during his lifetime, Mr C couldve  provided Scottish  
Widows with an EoW, outlining who hed like a death benefit pension  to be paid to. Although  
this would be considered, Scottish Widows wasnt  obliged to follow  it. In the event that Mr C 
didnt provide Scottish Widows with any EoW  regarding the death benefit  pension, then the 
death benefit would be paid to Mr Cs legal  personal representative. This would be the case 
unless Mr C had provided Scottish  Widows with an EoW regarding the death benefit; in 
which case Scottish Widows would consider the EoW. The beneficiary  would  however  have  
to be chosen from a specified list. Overall  Scottish Widows had ultimate discretion to decide 
who to pay the death benefit  to.
When Mr C passed away the death benefit under  his pension didnt automatically fall within  
his estate. And as Mr C didnt place  his pension in trust before he died his death benefit was 
held in discretionary trust. Because of this the Scheme Administrator, Scottish Widows could 
use its discretion and decide to whom any death benefits would be paid. As Ive said, the 
scheme rules did allow Mr C to provide an EoW.  But Scottish Widows wasnt obliged to 
follow this. 
As Mr M may be aware death  benefits  are sometimes set up under a discretionary trust 
because if the policyholder had a complete and total say in who received the benefits, they 
could potentially be liable for inheritance tax.
Mr C had no spouse when he died. Scottish  Widows has also confirmed it never received an 
EoW or Nomination from Mr C outlining who hed like his death benefit to go to. Based on 
the rules,  Scottish  Widows was able to pay the death benefit to Mrs J in her capacity as the 
legal personal  representative of Mr Cs estate. Scottish  Widows  went  further however. In my 
view it took reasonable  steps to try to identify any potential beneficiaries and to satisfy itself 
who, based on the available evidence, was the rightful beneficiary.
Scottish Widows  sent the solicitors acting on behalf  of Mr Cs estate a Notification of 
Potential Beneficiaries form and asked  for it to be completed. It also asked for a copy  of Mr 
Ws Will. The solicitors  confirmed Mr C had no Will and returned the completed Notification 
of Potential Beneficiaries  form. 
The completed Notification of Potential Beneficiaries form confirmed, amongst other things, 
that Mr C had no spouse and that his only daughter was Mrs J, who was also the legal 
personal representative of Mr Cs estate. One of Mr Cs sisters was also listed on the form.
Scottish Widows  has confirmed  the order of priority it followed when considering potential 
beneficiaries of the death benefit was spouse, children, parents, grandchildren, siblings, 
nephews and nieces  and dependents. 
Scottish Widows  reviewed  the information  it had. This included Mr Cs death certificate in 
which Mrs J was named as the informant, court documentation in which  Mrs J swore under 
oath she was the only person entitled  to Mr Cs estate, the grant of letters of administration  
naming Mrs J as the legal personal representative  of Mr Cs estate and the Notification of 
Potential Beneficiaries form provided by Mrs J and the solicitors acting for Mr Cs estate. 
Based on the information Scottish  Widows was provided with it exercised  its discretion  and 
chose Mrs J as the sole beneficiary of the death  benefit under Mr Cs pension. It did this 
based on:
Ref: DRN82496487Mr C having no spouse  when he died
Mr C never having provided Scottish  Widows with an EoW while  he was alive 
Mrs J being the legal personal representative  of Mr Cs estate
the solicitors acting for Mr Cs estate  confirming Mr C had no Will
the information provided by the solicitors  acting for Mr Cs estate confirming Mrs J 
was Mr Cs only daughter
I havent seen  anything which persuades me that, based on the circumstances and available  
information at the time, Scottish Widows  exercise of its discretion  to pay the death benefit  to 
the legal  personal representative of Mr Cs estate (who was also his daughter)  was 
unreasonable. Im satisfied Scottish Widows properly investigated the position  in respect of 
potential beneficiaries of the death  benefit.
In his submissions to this service, Mr M has said Mrs J deliberately  withheld an EoW from 
Scottish Widows. He believes that within  this EoW  Mr C confirmed he wanted  the death  
benefit to be shared between him and his siblings. Mr Cs alleged EoW has to date never 
been provided to Scottish Widows (or this service). Im also mindful  the scheme rules say, 
any EoW wouldve  needed to be provided  to Scottish Widows during Mr Cs lifetime. Scottish 
Widows has confirmed no such provision was made by Mr C. 
Although the provision  of an EoW by Mr C during  his lifetime would have been considered by 
Scottish Widows, the fact remains  that Scottish Widows would still have had discretion, 
under the plan rules, as to whom  it paid the death benefit to. So, I cant  say fairly conclude  
that, in the absence of an EoW  purportedly  outlining Mr Cs wishes  regarding  his pension,  
Scottish Widows  decision  to pay the death benefit to Mrs J in her capacity as the legal 
personal representative of Mr Cs estate was unreasonable.
Mr M has also referred to the Notification  of Potential Beneficiaries  form Scottish  Widows  
considered when deciding who to pay the death  benefit to. He says Mrs J and the solicitors 
acting for Mr Cs estate deliberately misled Scottish Widows by failing to mention that Mr C 
had another daughter (Mrs E), as well as a brother and sister,  in addition to his sister Mrs S, 
who was noted  in the form.
Mr M has also said Mrs J lied under oath to secure the grant of letters of administration and 
get appointed the legal  personal representative  of Mr Cs estate.
Its clear to me Mr M feels strongly  about what he believes happened here. But Im afraid, I 
still dont think Scottish  Widows  did anything  wrong in the circumstances. Although,  further to 
Scottish Widows  making a decision about the death benefit, Mr M has had concerns Mrs J 
may have  misled the Court and deliberately failed to provide Scottish Widows with complete 
(or truthful) information before it reached  its decision, this doesnt alter the fact that Scottish 
Widows decision  was made  reasonably at the time.
As Ive already  explained, Scottish Widows  was entitled to rely on the documentation and 
information provided by the solicitors acting for Mr Cs estate as well as the legal personal 
representative of Mr Cs estate. The solicitors acting for Mr Cs estate were authorised and 
Scottish Widows  had no reason to question or doubt  the veracity  of the information or 
Ref: DRN82496488documentation it was being provided with at the time- particularly where  this was confirmed 
in Court issued documents. 
Based on the above, Im unable find that it was unreasonable for Scottish Widows to reach 
the decision it did about the payment of the death  benefit. It considered all the information  
and documents  available to it  most of which, as Ive already said, was legal documentation  
issued by a Court following a court process.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that prior to its 
decision, Scottish Widows was provided  with any persuasive evidence which ought 
reasonably to have  caused it to reach a different decision regarding the death benefit 
payment.
I understand Mr M has very serious concerns about the EoW he says Mrs J refused to 
provide to Scottish Widows. And that hes equally concerned about the false representations 
he considers Mrs J made to the Court to secure  the grant of letters of administration- indeed,  
hes made claims of perjury and fraud. However,  as I explained previously, our service 
cannot intervene in this matter. The ombudsman service doesnt have same powers as a 
Court  we dont take testimony on oath or have the power to cross examine witnesses as in 
a Court environment. Therefore, we arent  able to compel Mrs J or the solicitors acting for Mr 
Cs estate to provide  information, nor can we challenge the grant of letters of administration.  
These remain matters which Mr M will need  to take to Court if he wishes  to challenge them.  
I understand this is a difficult and emotive issue. But for the reasons outlined above,  I have 
concluded that in exercising its legitimate discretion, Scottish Widows acted reasonably  to
establish who should get the death benefit from the late Mr Cs plan. It follows that I do not 
agree Scottish Widows erred in paying it to the legal personal representative of Mr Cs 
estate, Mrs J. I appreciate Mr M continues to feel Scottish  Widows  reached the wrong  
decision. But because  I think  it exercised  its discretion appropriately in 2015, there isnt 
anything more I can add and I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249648