K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  a joint account  with National  Westminster Bank Plc. They complain  that it
wont refund  two cash machine withdrawals made using Mrs Ss debit card.  Mrs S says she
neither made nor authorised them.
background
The first withdrawal was made  just after 4am on 27 September 2017; the second was at 
9.53am the following  day. Both were  for £300 and both were made at supermarkets close to 
Mr and Mrs Ss home. 
Mrs S has explained that she and Mr S were at hospital on the morning of 28 September, 
where he had an appointment. She noticed  that her card was missing,  so used his to check  
her account.  When she noticed the first cash machine withdrawal, she tried to call NatWest,  
but was initially  unsuccessful. By the time she managed to speak to someone in the banks 
fraud department, the second  withdrawal  had been  made. 
NatWest investigated,  but said it wouldnt make a refund, as the genuine card had been  
used with the correct PIN on each occasion. Mr and Mrs S referred  their complaint to this 
service, but our investigator  agreed with the bank and didnt feel it should refund either 
transaction. Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept that view and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case.  
I did that and issued a provisional  decision, so that each side could make  further  
submissions if they wished to do so. I set out below  the main  points of my provisional 
decision:
First of all, Im satisfied that the genuine  card was used to make  the withdrawals, rather  than 
a copy or clone. Im satisfied too that the correct  PIN was used with the card.  The banks 
records indicated that, and its what I would expect where a card is used in a cash machine. 
Thats also consistent  with what Mrs S says happened. 
I accept as well that neither Mrs S (whose  card was used) nor Mr S made the withdrawals. I 
accept that Mr S had a hospital appointment at the time of the second  withdrawal,  and Mrs S 
was calling the bank to say that her card was missing. Since  they couldnt have made the 
second withdrawal,  it seems most unlikely that they made the first. 
I must therefore consider how someone  else was able to obtain  both Mrs Ss card and her 
PIN. I think there are two possibilities. Either someone else had both the card and PIN with 
Mrs Ss consent or someone took the card from her bag (as she believes happened) and 
was able to obtain the PIN as well. 
I dont believe anyone  had the card and PIN with Mrs Ss consent. Had that been the case, 
its unlikely that Mrs S would have  tried to call NatWest before  the second  withdrawal  had 
been made. I think its more likely that someone took the card from Mrs Ss bag. I must  
therefore consider  how that person knew what the PIN was. Its not kept in an unencrypted 
form on the card itself, and its unlikely  that someone could have  guessed  what  it was.
Ref: DRN81232202When the bank  asked Mrs S about the PIN, she initially indicated that she had probably
written it down somewhere, although  she wasnt sure. And if she had written it down, it would
have been disguised. I think this is however the most  likely  explanation of how someone
found out what it was. It may be that the number was disguised,  but it clearly  wasnt
sufficiently well disguised that a thief couldnt  work  out fairly easily  what it was; the banks
records dont indicate that the wrong PIN was attempted.
As a general principle,  a bank cant hold a customer liable for transactions that the customer
didnt make or authorise.  In some circumstances, however, it can  and in particular where
the customer has acted  with gross negligence and that has caused the loss. That term
(which is used in the relevant regulations) indicates a very high degree of carelessness. I
think its generally accepted that keeping a card together  with its PIN carries a very high risk.
A thief who only has a card is very limited  in what they can do with it, but can carry out far
more transactions,  including  cash  machine withdrawals, with both the card and the PIN. I
take the view therefore  that Mrs S didnt take proper care of her card and PIN and that she
and Mr S should therefore bear the loss in the case.
Ive considered too Mrs Ss attempts to contact  NatWest in the 30 minutes  or so before the
second withdrawal.  Thats because a customer isnt generally liable for fraudulent
transactions made after theyve told the bank  that they no longer have their card. Had Mrs S
been able to contact the bank when she first tried  at about  9.25am  the second
withdrawal might have been  stopped. Its not clear why she was unable  to get through  to the
bank, but I cant safely  conclude that it was the banks fault. It seems  more likely to have
been a difficulty  with telephone reception.
I received no response to my provisional decision  from either party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither the bank nor Mr and Mrs S have responded to my provisional findings,  I see no 
reason to reach a different final conclusion. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to refund the disputed  
transactions or take any other steps  to resolve  this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my 
decision before  31 January  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8123220