K822xcomplaint
Miss M complains that a used car she bought  with a loan provided  by Hitachi  Capital  (UK) 
PLC (trading as Hitachi  Personal  Finance) (HPF) is of unsatisfactory  quality. She wants  HPF 
to put things right under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Miss M has been represented at times by her partner, but Ill generally refer to everything 
thats been said on Miss Ms behalf as if she had said it herself - to keep things simple. 
background 
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 November 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is attached and this 
forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I explained what Id decided about 
this complaint and what I intended to do  subject to any further  submissions from the 
parties.
HPF has not objected  to my provisional findings  but Miss M doesnt think shes been treated 
fairly overall.  She says (in summary) 
she accepts the mileage charges in view of the use she had of the car from Nov 2017  
until August 2018;
she shouldnt have  to pay any car hire charges  because she hired  a car as a last 
resort near the end of her pregnancy reasonably expecting  to be reimbursed in full;
she spent 151 extra hours travelling to work on public transport through  the winter  
whilst heavily pregnant.  The bus broke  down more  than once  and she was home late 
at times or late to work  which resulted in lost custom. She also had to pay £607 for 
this which has been overlooked;
HPF took monthly payments out of her account more  than once despite  agreeing  to 
put payments  on hold - she didnt lose out financially but this could have caused 
money problems; 
HPF wrongly marked suspended payments as missed on her credit file and she was 
refused a mortgage as a result. She has to wait for a minimum of six months to 
elapse from entries being corrected before she can apply again meaning  she has to 
stay in her current accommodation  which is too small  for her family; 
the inconvenience related to this matter  is on-going. Shes now 12 months  behind  
buying a larger home as she doesnt want to move with a young baby and theyve 
incurred additional  expense converting  one room into a nursery;
theyve also missed  out on family celebrations  and trips due to the lack of a car; 
she had to maintain  car insurance,  car road tax and a permit for a car parking space 
that she never used  while she waited for this car to be fixed; and
£350 is not enough to reimburse her financial losses  and compensate  her for the 
stress, upset and worry she has experienced.   
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Miss M that I have thought about  everything that she has said and sent to 
us carefully. I dont doubt how strongly  she feels about what happened  and I realise she 
would like HPF to pay more in the way of compensation or a refund. 
Ref: DRN85256282As I explained in my provisional findings,  Miss M brings this complaint to our service 
because HPF provided the credit  that she used to purchase a car which  was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  Miss M wants HPF to put things right under obligations arising  out of 
section 75 of the CCA. But, its not by job to apply section 75 here - thats a matter for the 
courts. Instead, I am looking at HPFs response  to Miss Ms complaint. But, this service is 
not a regulator and I dont  have the power  to punish or fine a financial business or any 
individual employee. 
I understand Miss M is frustrated that HPF tried to take payments from her account when it 
had agreed not to do so and recorded  missed payments on her credit  file. But, I havent seen 
anything to show that Miss M was refused a mortgage solely  on the basis  of adverse 
information that HPF reported  to credit reference agencies.  
I think lenders, such as mortgage  providers, generally decide whether to extend credit based 
on a variety of factors. And I cant fairly hold HPF responsible for Miss M being refused credit 
on the evidence  I have at the moment.  I dont  think  it would be fair or reasonable to delay 
this decision any further. So, if Miss M is unhappy  about information that HPF recorded on 
her credit record  and considers shes lost out as a result, its open to her to raise  this with 
HPF. If Miss M is dissatisfied with HPFs response  she may be able to bring another  
complaint about  that to our service.  
For the reasons  I set out in my provisional  decision,  I remain of the view that Miss M should 
pay for car hire for the period set out in my provisional findings. I understand she had to use 
public transport for a time before she hired a car. And I can see that must have been 
inconvenient and frustrating - given Miss Ms personal situation particularly. But, I am 
satisfied that HPF had suspended Miss Ms monthly loan payments during this time - so she 
wasnt paying twice  for travel. And I cant reasonably require HPF to pay more  for Miss Ms 
travel costs, in this situation.  
Miss M says shes lost out financially in other  ways due to being  supplied with a faulty car. 
Shes referred to lost custom  at work due to arriving late and the expense  of modifying 
accommodation for her growing family.  I have  sympathy for the situation Miss M found 
herself in but I havent seen much in the way of evidence  about these additional  costs.  In 
any event, I am not persuaded  that I can reasonably find this sort of expense was likely to 
have resulted directly  from Miss M being supplied with a faulty car. And I cant  fairly  require 
HPF to pay more by way of compensation, on these  grounds.  
I realise this probably  seems unfair  to Miss M. But, for the reasons I have given already, I 
think the outcome  I set out in my provisional decision seems fair and reasonable - in all of 
the circumstances. Nothing that Miss M has said has changed my mind  and I am unable to 
reasonably depart from my provisional  conclusions. 
I understand this decision  will probably  come  as a disappointment to Miss M and Im sorry 
about that. But, Miss M is not obliged to accept what I have said,  in which  case she remains  
free to pursue this matter  by alternative  means should she wish to do so.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Hitachi  Capital (UK) PLC (trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance)  (HPF)  to 
Ref: DRN852562831.allow Miss M to reject the car and arrange to take it back at no cost to her;
2.cancel the finance with nothing  further  owing from September  2019;
3.retain payments  made so far (of about  £2,984) and apply this money to pay off usage 
charges of £1,650 and reduce the negative  equity of around  £2,824;
4.offer Mrs M a suitable arrangement to enable her to pay the outstanding balance  of 
about £1,490;
5.remove any adverse information  from Miss Ms credit file and mark the agreement  as 
settled when the outstanding balance at 4 above has been repaid; and 
6.pay Miss M a total of £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.     
If HPF considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85256284copy provisional decision
complaint
Miss M complains that a used car she bought  with a loan provided by Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC 
(trading as Hitachi Personal Finance)  (HPF)  is of unsatisfactory quality and HPF wont pay for repairs 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Miss M has been represented at times by her partner, but Ill generally refer to everything thats been 
said on Miss Ms behalf as if shed said it herself - to keep  things simple.  
background 
Miss M got this car in November  2017. The following September it began  to make a strange noise 
and a main  dealer told Miss M that the engine was damaged and needed replacing. Miss M contacted  
the garage she bought the car from (that Ill call A). 
A said an extended warranty  Miss M got with the car would cover the cost of repairs up to £3,000. 
The cars manufacturer agreed to contribute as well - in view of the cars age and mileage but this left 
Miss M with about £3,000 still to pay. She felt that was unfair as the engine should have lasted much 
longer. She complained to HPF, because it provided  the finance  she used to buy the car. 
HPF thought A had offered  a fair resolution already  and it shouldnt have to do more. Miss M brought  
her complaint to our service  and HPF arranged to have  the car inspected  by an independent  expert.  
The expert  said (in summary) the car had a major engine  failure - which was uncommon in this 
particular model - and the most likely possible causes were 
an issue with the oil pump leading to oil starvation;
incorrect servicing; or
lack of care by previous  owners. 
The expert  concluded  the problem was probably  present at the point of sale. HPF disagreed  because  
A thought  the engine  would  have failed  much sooner if that was the case. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  at what happened. She didnt think  the car was durable enough  - as it 
was only six years  old and had covered  about 38,000 miles when the engine  failed. Taking the 
experts opinion into account, she was satisfied the car was probably  faulty when Miss M got it. She 
thought it fair that HPF should  pay for any repairs not covered by the warranty and the manufacturers 
contribution. She said HPF should also refund Miss Ms monthly payments for the time she was 
without the car, remove any adverse information from her credit file and pay Miss M £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
HPF agreed to have  the car fixed and A arranged for a third party  to refurbish the engine. It took 
several weeks for the engine to be collected then the third party decided that replacing  the engine 
was, in fact, the only option. Miss M felt HPF and A should have accepted this was the case  months 
ago - as thats  what the main dealer and the manufacturer  had both said. She thought it was 
unreasonable to expect her to accept any further delay  so she should be allowed  to reject the car and 
receive a refund.  
Our adjudicator agreed it wasnt fair for Miss M to have to wait any longer for the car to be fixed. She 
recommended Miss M should be allowed  to reject the car and HPF should  end the loan agreement, 
refund any deposit (with interest), amend Miss Ms credit  record  and pay her an additional £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
HPF said Miss M didnt  pay a deposit  - and shed carried over nearly £3,000 of negative equity  from 
an earlier car finance  agreement into this loan. So she would  need to repay that element of the 
borrowing - even if she was allowed to reject  the car. 
Ref: DRN85256285HPF calculated Miss M had paid enough towards the loan already to pay off the negative equity (and 
allow for a refund to Miss M of £160). A pointed out this would mean Miss M had not paid anything  for 
the time she was able to drive the car - between the date of sale and the engine  failure. A thought  
Miss M should pay for the mileage she had covered at a rate 15p a mile. 
Miss M accepted shes liable to pay back the negative  equity.  But she thinks it took far too long to 
resolve this matter - given the main dealer and the manufacturer accepted the engine had failed 
prematurely months ago. Shes been without the car for some time and found this particularly 
distressing and inconvenient as this was a family  car and she was pregnant and found it difficult  to 
use public transport.  She asked for an ombudsman to review the matter and said (in summary)
she doesnt see why she has to pay for the use of a faulty car that had to be returned;
she should  have been given  a courtesy car while this car was off the road and not had to pay 
£935 for car hire which hasnt  been reimbursed;
she paid an administration fee of £35 to transfer her parking  permit to the hire car and £293 
for car insurance  from Aug to April when  this car was off the road which should  be refunded; 
and
she dipped into savings to buy a replacement car to avoid  accumulating more hire costs.  
Shell lose money when she sells that and HPF should  reimburse this loss. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Miss M financed the purchase of this car with money she borrowed from HPF.  She brings this 
complaint to our service  because she thinks the car was of unsatisfactory quality when  she got it and 
HPF is equally  liable with A for that under section 75 of the CCA. 
Section 75 says the borrower  under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit 
provider in certain  circumstances, if theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the 
supplier of goods or services. Its not my role to apply  section 75, only a court can do that. Im looking 
instead at HPFs response to Miss Ms complaint and whether thats fair. But, I have to take relevant 
legislation like section  75 into account when I make my decision.  
I dont think theres any dispute that the circumstances here mean  the sort of link between  parties (A 
(the supplier), Miss M (the debtor) and HPF (the creditor)) required under section  75 is in place. So, 
Ive considered the sale contract between A and Miss M. Im satisfied  that this includes a term that the 
car should have been of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA). 
What amounts to satisfactory quality varies according  to circumstances  - but Im satisfied this includes 
durability and fitness for purpose - and its generally considered reasonable to consider a cars age, 
mileage and the price  paid in this sort of situation.  This car was 5 years old with 27,200 miles on the 
clock and cost just under £13,000 at the point of sale.  As such, I dont think Miss M could expect  it to 
be of the same standard as a new vehicle. But, I think she probably had a reasonable expectation that 
the car wouldnt  need  a major repair  - like replacing  the engine  - for some time. 
I am satisfied  this car appears to have had a catastrophic engine failure at the end of August 2018, 
when Miss M had driven it about 11,000 miles. I wouldnt expect an engine to fail in this way in a car 
of this age and mileage.  Having considered the conclusions of the main dealer, the manufacturer and 
the independent expert, I think its more likely  than not this car was of unsatisfactory quality when  
Miss M got it. So, Ive given some thought as to what HPF should  do to put things right, on a fair and 
reasonable basis.
Ref: DRN85256286In this sort of situation, the CRA says A should  generally  have the chance to repair the goods. Im 
satisfied that opportunity was provided  here and I agree with our adjudicators view that it took far too 
long to fix this car. I am minded to find it fair that Miss M should be entitled to reject the car now. I 
understand HPF accepts this is not unreasonable.
putting things right 
deposit and negative equity
HPF has agreed to cancel  the loan from the date the engine failed, September 2018. Given Miss M 
was able to use the car without any problem  until then, I would  usually says it is fair for HPF to keep 
the payments that she had made  towards the loan to reflect the use she had of the car. 
But, HPF has explained that the circumstances  surrounding  this loan are a little more complicated  - 
because Miss M carried  over £2,823.23 that she owed  on a previous finance agreement.  Im satisfied 
that this amount remains payable  by Miss M and, having  spoken  to Miss M, I understand she accepts 
that. 
HPF proposed  using  the payments Miss M has made towards the finance so far - £2,984.13 - to pay 
off this negative equity. I dont think that sounds unfair in principle. But this would mean Miss M 
hasnt actually  paid anything for the time she was able to use the car - between  November 2017 and 
September 2018. I think it is reasonable for Miss M to pay for the unimpaired use that she had of the 
car before  the engine failed. And Im satisfied  that the CRA says A is entitled  to charge for use, in this 
situation. 
A has suggested that Miss M should pay 15p for each mile she was able to travel in the car. That 
works out at around  £1,650  (11,000 miles  x 15p). This is about half the total amount of the monthly 
payments Miss M made for the relevant  period - which, as I explained above,  is what  I would usually 
have said could be retained for usage in this situation.  So, I dont think As suggestion sounds 
unreasonable overall. 
If I deduct £1,650 usage charges from the £2,984 Miss M has paid towards the loan already that 
leaves a credit balance of £1,334. If I apply that credit to the negative  equity owed of £2,824 Miss M is 
left liable  to pay about £1,490. I think that seems fair, in all of the circumstances. And Id expect HPF 
to give Miss M some time to repay this outstanding balance,  if she needs it.  
Miss M has mentioned she paid a deposit of around £100 when she got the car. She says she would 
like to have that refunded. From the paperwork Ive seen, I think this £100 was taken into account  
already by HPF when it calculated the outstanding negative equity figure set out above. I say this 
because the original sale invoice says the negative equity carried  over into the loan was about 
£2,929. If I am wrong about  that I would  be grateful if the parties could please let me know.
Miss M also asked for her September loan payment to be refunded as she made  that after the car 
broke down.  Again, the paperwork Ive seen  suggests  this was included  HPFs  calculation of the total 
amount paid towards the loan. So Im satisfied Miss M will be get the benefit  of that payment  as it will 
be deducted from the amount she owes HPF.      
car hire costs 
I am satisfied  that HPF allowed Miss M to stop making  her monthly payments from September 2018 - 
so she wasnt paying for the use of a car that she didnt have  from this point - I find that fair. 
I appreciate Miss M feels strongly that she should have been given a courtesy car while her car was 
off the road. And I accept that would probably have helped to minimise the disruption, distress and 
inconvenience she experienced. But HPF was not required  to provide  a courtesy car in this situation.  
And, if that had happened, Id have expected Miss M to keep making  her loan repayments throughout  
- because I am not persuaded its reasonable to pay nothing for the use of a car. 
Ref: DRN85256287Miss M has explained that she really  struggled to use public transport  in her condition by early 2019 
so she decided  to hire a car. Given the length of time repairs were taking,  the uncertainty about  when 
she might  get her own car back and Miss Ms particular personal circumstances, I do not think it was 
unreasonable to hire a car at this stage. 
I realise Miss M would like me to require HPF to refund the full cost of this hire. But, Im afraid I dont 
think that would be fair - as it would mean she paid nothing for transport  during this time. Im not 
persuaded however  that it is reasonable for Miss M to be out of pocket as a result of being without a 
car for so long. 
I have seen invoices that show Miss M paid £1,519 for car hire from 5/2/19 - 2/4/19. If her car had not 
broken down, Miss M would  have  been liable to pay about £300 a month towards the loan during this 
time. So, it looks as if Miss M paid about £920 more, as a result of having  to hire a car, than she 
would have paid for this period if her car had not been  faulty. 
As I understand it, HPF has already reimbursed  some of the hire costs Miss M paid - it refunded  
around £1,000 (in two payments - £440  and £566).  I am inclined to find that seems fair overall as it 
means Miss M has paid about the same amount for transport in February and March  2019 as she 
would have done if her car hadnt broken down (or if it had been  repaired sooner). 
replacement car
Miss M has explained that she became concerned about the cost of hiring a car after a few months 
and decided  use her savings to buy a replacement vehicle. I can see why she did so. And I appreciate 
she feels this was unfair so HPF should contribute to any loss incurred on the sale of the replacement 
vehicle. 
But, Im satisfied that Miss M was required  to mitigate her losses in this situation.  I think  thats what 
she did by purchasing a replacement car. I also think Miss M would probably have incurred some  
costs associated  with depreciation when she sold her own car on - if that had not been faulty - in any 
event. And, taking everything into account,  I am not persuaded  that I can reasonably require  HPF to 
provide an additional refund  on these grounds.  
insurance 
I understand Miss Ms frustration that she wasnt able to drive her own car for such a long time. But I 
am satisfied  that she continued to drive other vehicles and she needed  to have appropriate insurance  
to enable her to do that. So, Im not persuaded that I can fairly require  HPF to refund the cost of car 
insurance. 
administration fees 
Miss M says she had to pay an administration  fee of £35 to transfer her parking permit  to the hire car. 
I think  that sort of loss is likely to have  directly  resulted from being supplied  with a faulty car. And I find 
it is fair for HPF to refund  this fee, if Miss M provides  evidence of payment. 
distress and inconvenience
I can see that this experience has proved very stressful and inconvenient  for Miss M. She was 
pregnant for most of the time the car was off the road and I have  no doubt that not having  her own car 
was particularly  inconvenient towards the end of the pregnancy. Miss M has also explained that her 
car was the family vehicle (as her partner has a van). And being without a car for such  a long time 
meant they were unable to do things as a family - which caused additional stress and upset. 
Having considered  everything  that happened, I am minded to agree with our adjudicator  and find HPF 
should pay another £100  on top of the compensation paid already (£350  in total)  to reflect the distress 
Ref: DRN85256288and inconvenience Miss M has experienced.  I am unable to require  HPF to compensate Miss Ms 
partner (or any other family member) in these circumstances as they are not HPFs  customers. 
I now invite  both parties to consider my provisional  findings  and let me have any further comments or 
additional information by the date below. After that I will consider  all of the available  evidence and 
make my final decision.   
 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I may receive from the parties  by 22 November 2019, my 
provisional decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC 
(trading as Hitachi Personal Finance)  to 
1allow  Miss M to reject the car and arrange to take it back  at no cost to her;
2cancel the finance  with nothing further to pay from September 2019;
3retain payments made so far of about £2,984 and apply this money to pay off usage charges 
of £1,650  and reduce  the negative equity of around £2,824;
4offer Mrs M a suitable arrangement to enable her to pay the outstanding  balance of about  
£1,490;
5remove any adverse  information from Miss Ms credit file and mark the agreement  as settled 
when the outstanding balance at 4 above  has been repaid;  and 
6pay Miss M a total of £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.    
Ref: DRN8525628