K820x#14complaint
Mr H1 complains  on behalf  of his father (Mr H2) that National Westminster  Bank Plc lent 
irresponsibly and allowed his father to pay the minimum monthly  payment for several  years.
background
Mr H1 complains  about  debt which has accrued across two credit card accounts  belonging 
to his father.  He feels that NatWest  has acted irresponsibly in failing to notice his fathers 
lack of financial understanding  as evidenced  by payment of the minimum monthly repayment 
for approximately  15 years. Mr H1 feels the bank shouldve contacted his father and offered 
an alternative financial arrangement.  Mr H1 says his father is experiencing financial 
difficulties and he wants NatWest to write off the debt.
NatWest says the accounts  were opened in 1972  and 1989  and that charges and interest 
have been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement that Mr H2 signed. 
In response to the account holders financial difficulties NatWest has frozen the account  and 
has agreed to accept £1 per month.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He reviewed the accounts going back for the 
last 6 years  and found that the required minimum monthly payments had been  made  on time 
on both accounts.  The investigator said that if Mr H2 was struggling to make the payments 
he could have contacted the bank. The investigator  also said that when NatWest was made  
aware of the account holders financial difficulties it responded positively and sympathetically.
Mr H1 didnt agree. He says the bank had a responsibility to monitor his fathers accounts. In 
particular, he felt that because his father held a savings account with approximately £20,000, 
the bank shouldve offset or consolidated the accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For jurisdictional reasons  Ive only looked  at account activity from 2012  onwards. Ive 
reviewed the statements  for both credit cards and I can see that Mr H2 has made  minimum 
payments each month, all of which have been made on time. In addition, both accounts have 
been used for new transactions.  So a combination  of minimum payments and purchases has 
caused the accounts balances to increase.
Ive looked at the rate of interest which has been  applied to the accounts over the relevant  
time. Whilst  the interest  rate is a commercial decision for the bank and not something  which  
this service can interfere, Im satisfied that theres nothing  extraordinary about the rate of 
interest, taking into consideration that both accounts are credit  card accounts.
The nub of this complaint  is that Mr H1 feels NatWest shouldve noticed  that his father  was 
paying the minimum amount each month and shouldve taken steps to put an alternative 
arrangement in place.  Its not clear from the information provided whether Mr H2 paid the 
minimum payment because he was unable to afford  to pay more, or because  he 
misunderstood how payments worked. In one of his letters to the bank, Mr H1 has 
suggested that it was the latter reason. But clearly  as time progressed, the minimum 
Ref: DRN88618652payments have become unaffordable,  as borne  out by Mr H2s current financial 
circumstances and resultant payment arrangement. 
Whilst I agree that NatWest has a general  responsibility to monitor accounts,  I dont think its 
reasonable to expect  the bank to monitor accounts so closely so as to be in a position  to 
suggest more  beneficial ways of dealing  with debt. This would be too onerous a 
responsibility taking  into account the sheer  volume of customers.
In this case, I think NatWest has demonstrated  that it monitored  Mr H2s accounts.  I can see 
that the bank identified  that Mr H2 was paying the minimum payment in 2012  (and possibly 
before, although  as Ive explained,  I cant look back further than 6 years). The bank has 
written to Mr H2 on several occasions, warning him that paying the minimum payment would 
result in him paying  more interest and taking longer to repay. The letters  also signposted 
Mr H2 to sources of further help if he wanted it. Im satisfied  that NatWest  provided this 
information to Mr H2 in a clear  and fair way and did as much as I would expect  it to do to 
attempt to persuade Mr H2 to change his payment arrangements.. The bank cant force 
customers to increase minimum payments or utilise other savings to reduce debt in full or 
part. 
In relation to the aspect of the complaint which relates to the length of time it took for the 
bank to set up a third party authority, I can see that the bank did this within  a week  of 
receiving the letter.  The delay appears to have arisen in between  the date of the letter (1 
October 2018) and the date when  it was received by the bank (22 October 2018). I cant 
fairly say that the bank was responsible for this delay.
Taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, Im unable to conclude  that 
NatWest has acted  unfairly. As soon as the bank was made aware  of Mr H2s financial 
difficulties it responded  positively  and sympathetically. There are a number of options  when 
a customer is in financial difficulties, including freezing the account,  waiving charges or 
setting up a repayment plan. The bank isnt obliged to write off debt in these circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H2 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8861865