K821x#15complaint
Mr Js unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd has recorded adverse information on his credit  file. He 
wants it removed. 
 
background
Mr J had a repayment  plan with Monzo to repay his overdraft. He missed a payment and 
was told by Monzo that it would be alright to lower the amount he paid. A few days  later he 
received a message from Monzo but he couldnt access his account. He found  out his 
account had been put in collections. Mr J says he understands  why his account had to be 
closed but it isnt good enough for Monzo to say in its final response that it shouldve  given 
him some breathing  space. He says it made  an error and he cant be held at fault for his 
account defaulting. Hes unhappy a default  is on his credit file and wants  it removed.  He 
says its affecting his ability to get credit and this has caused him stress.
Monzo said in its final response  that it shouldve applied breathing space  to Mr Js account  to 
allow its specialist team to respond  to his lower  repayment request. But its internal 
procedures automatically  closed his account and recorded the default. As it did so in line 
with its internal procedures, it cant now amend his credit file. Its offered Mr J a £60 credit 
towards his arrears as an apology.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said:
Monzo had acted in good faith and tried to support Mr J when he was in financial 
difficulty and became unemployed. But he isnt satisfied the default shouldve been 
applied. Mr J had contacted Monzo  to explain his situation and although it closed his 
account in line with its terms and conditions it couldve handled things better.
Mr J was told breathing space would be applied to his account until 1 May 2019. 
Despite this it was closed automatically by Monzos system and a default  marker was 
applied. That wasnt fair. 
Monzo should therefore remove  the default marker from Mr Js credit file and also 
give him a new affordable repayment  plan. But if he doesnt keep up with the 
repayments Monzo should send a notice of arrears and default to warn him of action 
that can be taken.
Mr J accepts the investigators view. 
Monzo doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary it says leaving 
Mr Js account open wasnt  the available solution. The account closure was in line with its 
terms and conditions. Its already apologised for its administrative  error. Applying breathing 
space wouldnt have  helped Mr J in the long term. He hed been over his limits for some time 
and hadnt paid anything into the account showing was really  struggling. Applying the default 
meant the fees would  be permanently frozen and can be the best option for a customer. Its 
gone above and beyond  in helping Mr J, has frozen  fees, given him time to set up repayment 
arrangements and referred him to outside organisations. Whilst its service and responses 
couldve been better the £60 compensation its given  is enough.
Ref: DRN80616562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank  has an obligation  to treat customers who are experiencing financial difficulty 
positively and sympathetically.
I accept that Monzo  has generally done  so and attempted to assist  Mr J. But the issue here 
is that when he contacted  it to try to organise  a reduced payment as his circumstances had 
worsened, he was told his account  would  be given a few more  weeks  breathing space so 
that a specialist team could deal with him.
Unfortunately no breathing space given and there was no opportunity for him to 
communicate with the specialist team as Monzos automatic systems almost  immediately 
closed Mr Js account and applied the default. Although this may well have been  caused, or 
at least contributed to, by the fact Mr J spoke to Monzo at the weekend, I think  it shouldve 
kept its word and allowed a little more  time to discuss and try to resolve matters.
I have no doubt  that Monzo was entitled  to close Mr Js account and register the default in 
line with its terms and conditions due to the accounts conduct.  I also recognise that Mr J 
mayve been better off because of what Monzo  did as account charges were frozen. It may 
also be that if hed been given the promised breathing space this may well have just delayed 
the inevitable  account closure and default.  But given  what he was told Monzo  simply 
shouldnt have done so when it did.
Monzo has accepted  it made an administrative error  and its credited £60 compensation for 
this against what  Mr J owes.  I think thats  fair. But as the default  wouldnt have been entered 
when it was if Mr J had been given the promised breathing space, I think  its also fair for the 
default to be removed from his credit  file.
Mr J says hes been stressed by whats happened  and declined credit. But given his obvious  
poor financial situation and problems I cant say with any certainty  that the default recorded 
by Monzo would be the only reason  he might  not have obtained credit or been stressed. And 
I cant fairy require Monzo to pay any additional  compensation  for this.
I would urge the parties to now try to agree an affordable repayment  plan for what Mr J 
owes. And if Mr J doesnt agree one or doesnt  meet any agreed payments in the future 
Monzo will be free to take steps to seek and record a default. That aside I dont think  I can 
fairly or reasonably ask Monzo to do anything more,  including paying Mr J any further  
compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Monzo  Bank Ltd should remove  the default it 
recorded on Mr Js credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Ref: DRN80616563Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8061656