K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the level of service provided by HSBC UK Bank  Plc trading  as 
First Direct  when  they applied to extend  the term of their mortgage. Mr and Mrs S want First 
Direct to pay for their valuations of £1,492.44 and an additional payment for their time and 
anxiety. 
background
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest-only mortgage with First Direct on their home in 2008 for 
£250,000. The term matured in November 2018. Mr and Mrs S had savings to pay off the 
capital but bought another property, a church,  in 2017 for £450,000  with no mortgage as a 
conversion project. They put their existing property on the market - now worth  £750,000 - but 
it didnt sell so they applied for a three-year extension  on their mortgage  to allow them  time 
to convert and sell off the church.
In August  2018  Mr and Mrs S started  the application process for a new mortgage but it didnt 
go as smoothly as they expected. Mr and Mrs S complain about  a number of aspects of the 
service they got including incorrect information especially about the type of valuation  
required. Mr and Mrs S also say that First Direct asked for unnecessary documentation and 
didnt look at Mr and Mrs Ss overall financial picture. Mr and Mrs S terminated the 
application in October  2018 because of the way First Direct was handling it. 
First Direct  allowed  Mr and Mrs S an extension of the mortgage term so they could  sell one 
of the properties and continued with the existing interest rate until January 2019 when the 
rate reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs S sold the conversion project 
at the end of May 2019 and redeemed the mortgage. Our investigators  view was that HSBC 
had done nothing wrong and so he didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and asked  for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully read through the documentation  and listened to a number of the relevant phone  
calls related to this complaint and Mr Ss email to us 25 July 2020. Mr and Mrs S were  so 
dissatisfied with the service  provided by First Direct that they withdrew  their application  for a 
three-year extension to their mortgage.  Ive looked at why they did this.
Mr and Mrs S originally  had the means  to pay off their existing mortgage but instead used 
this money on buying a church as a conversion project in 2017. So, when the time came to 
pay off the mortgage,  they didnt have the money to pay off the capital. Mr and Mrs Ss plan 
was to renovate the church  as a retirement project and then to sell it. But this would take 
some time and money.  I see a figure of £200,000 mentioned as the projected cost of doing 
so. Mr and Mrs S wanted a three-year extension on the interest-only mortgage.  First Direct 
was processing the mortgage application,  but Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy with several 
aspects of the process and ended the application.
Ref: DRN84543732As the mortgage  was to be interest only, Mr and Mrs S had to have a repayment  strategy. 
There was some discussion  about  using the lump sums from Mr and Mrs Ss pension, but 
First Direct  said it was unable to use these as Mr S was using them to draw  income.  First 
Direct agreed to look at the conversion  project.  As this was to be the repayment vehicle First 
Direct looked to establish its viability to pay off the mortgage. This was in line with the 
regulations that require  First Direct to establish  that a customer  can afford  to pay off the 
mortgage including the capital.
First Direct  has a limited flexibility about how it applied those rules and there were certain 
circumstances when  it didnt have to apply them. As Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage 
before 26 April 2014, First Direct  didnt  have to assess affordability  if the proposed 
transaction was in their best interests. But it seems to me that assessing whether the 
transaction was in their best interests would involve First Direct  doing some assessment as 
to how the lending was to be repaid and to investigate the viability  of the repayment  vehicle. 
First Direct  appears to have in fact been  doing  that when it looked to see how Mr and Mrs S 
would pay the remaining  £200,000 that was required to complete the project.  Certainly, 
without knowing that they could afford to complete the conversion project, its not 
immediately clear that it would be in their best interests to do it and I cant fault First Direct 
for going through a process to determine  whether the conversion  project  and proposed 
repayment vehicle  was viable.   
First Direct  wanted to establish  the value of the church which led to a dispute with Mr and 
Mrs S about  the type of valuation requested. As the church was to be the repayment  vehicle 
and had no working bathroom  or kitchen, I dont  believe it was unreasonable  for First Direct 
to request a valuation  of it. As the property had only recently  been  bought  and Mr S had 
done work to it, Mr and Mrs S questioned  why a valuation would have been required  in the 
first place. But I dont believe that First Direct should have had to rely solely on the 
borrowers valuation  of the property based  on the price they bought  it at.
Mr S had a phone conversation with a First Direct adviser on 9 September 2018 when the 
adviser told him that First Direct could proceed using the conversion project as a repayment  
vehicle if Mr and Mrs S got an RICS qualified surveyors valuation of it. Mr and Mrs S initially  
got what the surveyors firm described  as a market appraisal from a RICS surveyor. I note 
that the report provided is qualified as follows the advice is given for marketing purposes 
only and is not a formal valuation. It appears  to me to be a valuation  for Mr and Mrs S if they 
were selling the house. First Direct was unhappy with this. It wanted a formal valuation, and 
this was eventually  supplied by the same firm of surveyors  which  produced a report and a 
valuation on 27 September described as required for secured lending purposes.
Ref: DRN84543733Mr and Mrs S were  annoyed that First Direct wasnt clearer about what it wanted in the 
phone call which caused them to pay the extra cost of the second report and a short  delay. 
But I think its reasonably  clear what First Direct  wanted. As it was in the business of secured 
lending it was reasonable to assume it required a report  for secured lending purposes.  I 
accept that in this case the valuation was on the repayment strategy rather than the 
mortgaged property. But in an interest-only mortgage the value of the repayment strategy 
will be as important to the lender as the mortgaged property. In any case  if Mr and Mrs S 
were faced with a choice  of valuations, as seems to be the case, and wondered  which one 
First Direct  required, they could have clarified  that with the lender. Mr and Mrs S have  asked 
that the cost of the valuations be returned. But as Mr and Mrs S knew that the application 
required a valuation and were made  aware  that they would be responsible for the cost, I 
dont believe  that reimbursement  is appropriate.   
Although First Direct had issues with the second report  these were quickly resolved.  But the 
mortgage application broke  down  after First Direct looked for further information from Mr and 
Mrs S. The repayment strategy  involved the sale of the partially  converted church which  
needed more  money  spent  on it. First Direct wanted  to see evidence  of the existence of the 
remaining money that was to be spent on the project  which  was to be from savings and the 
proceeds of sale of a classic bike collection. I believe that it was reasonable for First Direct 
to require evidence  of this.  First Direct would have concerns that if the project  was 
unfinished the repayment vehicle could be devalued or that Mr and Mrs S might borrow 
elsewhere and use the church as security to complete the project. I dont consider that these 
enquiries were excessive, Mr and Mrs S were  unwilling to provide First Direct with this 
evidence and that effectively brought the application to a close. 
I note that Mr and Mrs S raised  some other issues they had with First Directs service such 
as First Direct querying whether they in fact owned the church as this didnt show on its land 
registry search. But my view was that First Direct provided a reasonable level of service 
throughout. I also note that it was helpful  in providing Mr and Mrs S with an extension of the 
mortgage term and extended their period  on the discounted interest rate beyond the maturity 
date. I recognise that this wasnt  a straightforward  application and decisions were being  
referred to an underwriter which doesnt make for a smooth process. But for the reasons set 
out above I find that First Direct did nothing wrong  and so I cant fairly  uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 November  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8454373