K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Nationwide Building Society wont allow her claim under Section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 and refund the cost of a train journey she says was 
misrepresented. She also feels  there was a breach of contract.
background
Miss G tells us she booked a trip on Eurostar between  London  and Lille for herself and her 
husband. This was paid for by credit  card and cost a total of £358. Miss G says upon arrival 
at the terminal  she discovered the train was a Disneyland train - which was predominantly 
occupied by family groups with children. For personal reasons she says she and her 
husband would have chosen a different  train had they been aware.
She describes the train as noisy and chaotic and thinks the service  was misrepresented  as 
when she booked online there was nothing to distinguish between  this and a normal 
service. She feels she should  receive compensation.
Nationwide said it accepted it would have been  beneficial if more information  had been 
provided. But it said it had not received evidence from Miss G that the service had been 
misrepresented or the merchant was in breach  of contract.  It said the supplier had provided 
the journey which  had been paid for.
I issued a decision on this complaint  on 7 January 2019 indicating  I did not intend to uphold 
the complaint.  Both parties have replied and I thank  them for their prompt responses.  
Nationwide said it had nothing to add. Miss G didnt  agree with my provisional  view and in 
particular she said she did not understand how I described the journey as typical. Ill give a 
detailed explanation in my final decision which is set out below. But Ive not seen  anything  
which would cause me to change  my provisional  decision.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Miss G and her husband experienced an unhappy journey. I accept they had valid 
reasons for wishing  to travel on a service which was not likely to be occupied predominantly 
by family  groups.
This claim  has been based Section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  And whilst I dont 
apply the law directly  - I do take it into account.
If theres been a misrepresentation  and/or breach of contract, Section 75 allows a consumer 
using certain types of credit to make  the same claim against the provider of finance as they 
could against  the supplier  of the goods or service.  So if I thought thered been a 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract Id expect Nationwide to put things right.  Its also 
necessary for the cost of a single item or service  purchased to be within certain  limits. In this 
case the relevant  limit is the requirement that the single item price had to cost in excess  of 
£100.
Ref: DRN88378152A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to act upon it. But 
a misrepresentation  can also occur  as a result of an omission of a material fact. The 
circumstances in which this can occur are limited,  but can include the telling of half- truths  
which mislead.
The underlying facts of the complaint are straightforward and not in dispute.  Miss G and her 
husband wished  to travel  to a European destination.  She visited the Eurostar  website and 
booked the tickets. She says there  was nothing to distinguish the Disneyland service which  
goes direct to that theme park as opposed  to a service  which  terminates elsewhere. Both 
services stopped at her chosen destination  and so as far as Miss G was concerned she 
thought she was on a normal service.
In reality the train was crowded  with children and there were additional entertainments to 
cater for this younger  group which would not usually have been  provided. I do not doubt that 
for anyone  who prefers to travel in more tranquil conditions  the journey would have been 
stressful.
Whilst I understand why Miss G thinks the service  was misrepresented  Ive reached a 
different opinion. Ill explain why.
The basic  purpose  of any passenger transport  service is to carry the passenger safely  
between one location and another. Anything else can reasonably be considered ancillary to 
that fundamental purpose unless it is advertised specifically or might reasonably be inferred.  
Given that a typical  Eurostar journey would carry hundreds  of passengers  it seems  to me 
unreasonable to expect  the carrier to cater for the individual - and no doubt varied - wishes  
of each of its passengers.   
Im aware Miss G thinks that the journey - far from being typical - was in fact atypical. I can 
understand her point  of view and in one sense  I dont  disagree. But what  Im trying to 
emphasise is that a typical journey caters for a lot of individual travellers. And each of them  
as an individual  will have different preferences, priorities and needs. So it would be a 
practical impossibility to advertise every  possible  feature  of a journey.
And when  using public transport there is always likely to be an element of uncertainty as to 
the nature  of fellow travellers. For example,  a normal scheduled service might  typically be 
fairly quiet.  But on occasions it might  be used by those attending a sporting event  - and this 
might result in the conditions being  more boisterous than usual. 
What features a business advertises (or does not) seems to me a choice for the business to 
make. Its not within my jurisdiction to instruct a business on how it should advertise the 
services it offers.  And here the relevant business  is not even a party to the complaint.
I think if a passenger has a special  requirement  theres an obligation  on the individual  to 
check with the carrier to see if that requirement  can be met - unless the service is advertised  
as already including that element.
Here, Miss G booked and paid for a journey between London and a European destination. 
And that service was provided. I do not think there  is any evidence  of a misrepresentation or 
that it can reasonably  be said Nationwide has done anything wrong in the manner in which  it 
has considered  this complaint.
Ref: DRN88378153Nor do I think there was any breach of contract. The basis  of the contract was simply to 
transport Miss G and her husband  to their chosen  destination. Ive seen no persuasive 
evidence this was not completed satisfactorily or that it was not performed with reasonable 
care and skill.
In addition I cant say Ive been  given  any evidence of actual financial loss. Even  if I had 
found a misrepresentation or breach of contract had occurred the normal  approach would  be 
to try and put the customer back to the position theyd have been in had the 
misrepresentation or breach not occurred. That would not have been possible here as Miss 
G and her husband continued with the journey.
As an alternative wed look to compensate for any financial  loss incurred due to any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. But even if Miss G had chosen to take the following 
train she would have  still had to pay the relevant fare. And Ive seen no evidence  it would 
have been any cheaper.
I want to emphasise that I do not doubt  for one moment that Miss G and her husband  
suffered inconvenience and discomfort. But I do not think this resulted from a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation. And so it would  not be fair and reasonable to say 
Nationwide was required to do anything.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Miss G Im not upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8837815