K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC declined his claim for compensation 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  his purchase of a car.
background
In 2018 Mr P bought a used car. He paid a £500  deposit with his Tesco credit card, and paid 
another £23,095 by faster  payment. After a while he noticed a problem with the radio,  and as 
the car was still under  warranty he took it back to the vendor. The vendor traced the fault to 
a device which had been attached to the car for the purpose of dishonestly  recording the 
mileage. The vendor  said that the addition of this device voided the warranty, and so they 
would not repair the radio.  Mr P raised a claim with Tesco  under section 75.
Tesco did not uphold  Mr Ps claim, for two reasons. Firstly,  they said that section 75 did not 
apply, because the credit card payment  had not been made  to the vendor  but to a third 
party. The second  reason (which was not mentioned in their final response letter) was that 
even if section 75 had applied, there  was no evidence  of when the device  had been  attached  
to the car, so Tesco had no way of knowing if it had been  there  when the car was sold.
Mr P brought this complaint to our Service, but our adjudicator did not uphold it. She agreed 
with Tesco  that section 75 did not apply  to Mr Ps claim. (She  did not comment on the other 
issue.)
Mr P did not accept that opinion. He said that he had been duped  by the vendor into making 
a payment which did not attract section  75 cover, and that Tesco had used this as a 
convenient excuse  not to consider his claim further. He said Tesco  would have investigated 
more diligently if it had been Tesco who had been defrauded instead of him. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that section 75 
did not apply to Mr Ps claim. I will explain why.
I was sorry to read about the trouble Mr P has been put to. It must have been an unpleasant 
experience to discover that his warranty had been  voided in such  circumstances. However,  
I do not think it is fair to say that Tesco has taken unfair advantage of the situation.  Rather,  
section 75 is a law which (when it applies) makes Tesco liable for things which  are not its 
fault. So in a case where that section does not apply, I dont think  its unfair  of Tesco  to 
decline to pay compensation for something  a third party did. Nor would it be fair of me if 
I ordered Tesco to pay compensation  anyway, if section 75 does not require  it to.
Section 75 only makes Tesco liable to Mr P for a breach of contract or misrepresentation 
committed by the person  the credit card payment was made  to. In this instance,  Mr Ps 
payment was not made to the vendor but to somebody else. This means that section  75 
does not apply to anything the vendor did. The position would be otherwise if the vendor and 
the recipient of the payment were controlled  by the same people  for instance, if they had 
the same  director  but there is no evidence that this is the case here.  I have seen evidence  
that Tesco did check the companies  records with Companies House, to find out, so I think  
Ref: DRN80185252Tesco did investigate this issue  properly but were unable to find anything which suggested  
that section 75 would  apply after all.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8018525