K820x#14complaint
Mr X complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (when Lloyds was trading as Cheltenham  & 
Gloucester) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
As Lloyds  Bank Plc is responsible for dealing with this complaint, Ill just refer to Lloyds in 
my decision  from now on.
background
Mr X took out a mortgage in 2001  and he bought PPI to protect his mortgage  monthly  
repayments if he couldnt work. 
Mr X mainly  said he didnt know he had PPI on his account and he didnt need it. Hes also 
unhappy that he was unsuccessful when  he attempted  to claim on the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr X disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Xs complaint. 
It isnt reasonable  to expect Mr X to remember  precisely what happened  as the sale was so 
long ago. This means that what he says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his mis-sale complaint. I must take into account all the information Ive got and 
decide what I think is most likely. 
Theres limited  paperwork  from the sale  but it looks as if PPI was discussed during the 
mortgage application process as Mr X completed a separate PPI application in order to have 
the cover  added on. So I think  Mr X wouldve been  aware that it was up to him to say if he 
wanted to have PPI with the mortgage. At the same time Mr X also set up monthly payment 
arrangements at his bank  to cover the PPI cost. On balance, I find that Mr X signed up for 
the policy knowing it was optional  and it was added to his mortgage account when Mr X 
chose to buy the policy.
Lloyds says it recommended PPI to Mr X. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI 
it doesnt just have to give important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
The policy couldve covered Mr Xs mortgage repayments (and paid out an extra amount) for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr X was unable to work as a result  of accident or sickness  or if 
Mr X lost his job unexpectedly and was unemployed.  Looking  at what Mr X told us about  his 
other means  I think PPI was suitable for him. Ive no reason to think that Mr Xs family 
wouldnt have wanted to help out if he found he couldnt work and had money  problems. But 
I cant assume that other people would always be in a position to pay his mortgage  if he 
couldnt.
Ref: DRN88242792Its possible  some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr X about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr X wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve limited 
the policys benefit to him. So, even if these werent mentioned, I dont think  that knowing 
more about things the policy didnt  cover wouldve made any difference  to Mr Xs decision to 
have PPI. 
Mr X chose  to take out the policy and so he appears to have wanted this type of cover.  He 
was eligible for the policy.  I dont know  if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr X when he 
bought the policy. But, he seems to have been happy to pay for the PPI when he applied to 
have it and from what Ive seen, it doesnt appear to have been  unaffordable for him. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr X still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him worthwhile protection in his particular  situation.  
Ive taken into account what Mr X has told us about what happened  when he tried to claim 
under the policy.  But that doesnt mean that PPI must have been mis-sold when he took it 
out and it isnt a reason for me to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8824279