K820x#14complaint
The Trustees complain  that Tilney  Asset  Management Services  Limited has mismanaged  
the Trusts portfolio  since 2002 when it took over management of it. 
background
The Trust was set up in 1997 to provide  capital for the benefit  of Mrs L and her children. 
The mandate agreed in 2002 was for the Trusts portfolio to be managed on a moderate risk 
basis, with a combination of bonds  and equities  that offers the opportunity  to participate in 
stock market [and] appreciate over the medium term. This involved a balanced approach 
that will seek to combine income and capital returns. The Trust placed no restrictions on the 
portfolio managers  discretion  to invest.  
In 2012 the Trusts  portfolio was worth  just over £100,000. Tilney was managing  the portfolio 
on a discretionary mandate. The Trustees  filled in a risk questionnaire  in 2013  which  said: 
The Trust was aiming for growth in capital  value  and in particular, for this growth to 
significantly exceed the level of inflation  prevalent at the time.
The Trust didnt  depend on a specific level of income to meet ongoing  liabilities. 
The Trusts aim was to remain  invested  for 5 to 10 years, and it had other assets  upon 
which it could  call should there  be an unexpected financial emergency. 
The Trust couldnt afford to lose more  than 10% should it have to unexpectedly disinvest 
the portfolio due to poor performance, but the Trustees  were  prepared to ride out any 
falls in the stock  market in the expectation  that markets  would recover.  
In an earlier  fact find, the Trustees confirmed that they understood risk as a concept and 
accepted that requirements for growth  may involve some risk which  the Trustees would 
expect to be managed.  On the back of the answers given, a confirmatory suitability letter  
was sent. This said that the Trusts capacity  for risk was low, but the tolerance  for risk was 
high. It explained  that this conclusion was based on the answers the Trustees  had given on 
the questionnaires,  but also derived from the fact that the size of the portfolio was relatively  
small combined with the need to continue providing  an income for the life beneficiary, rather  
than rolling the income up. Tilney  therefore  confirmed that the standard balanced risk profile  
remained suitable for the Trusts needs.  The letter also confirmed that to meet the 
requirements set by the Trustees, Tilney would  use their tolerances of 5% towards the high 
side on equities when  structuring the portfolio. The letter also confirmed  that in order  to main  
the income from the portfolio, it would use a blend  of income  and capital growth.
Between 2013 and 2018 regular  valuations  were sent to the Trustees, during which time 
they became concerned by the performance of the portfolio. In June 2018 they complained. 
In short,  they alleged that Tilney hadnt  been  managing the Trust effectively, and it was 
directly responsible for the poor performance of the portfolio. They said that from 2002 the 
portfolio had grown by only 50%,  while the FTSE100 had grown by over 200%. They  said:
Tilneys strategy of having many small holdings diluted any gains  achieved.  
The portfolio contained holdings  which  had embedded  management  fees, in addition to 
what Tilney was charging, and this was a major cost to the Trust. 
Too much was held in cash,  including as much as 7.5% in March  2018. 
Ref: DRN81808972The Trustees believed  the portfolio shouldve kept pace  with the FTSE100, and this meant 
the portfolio wouldve been worth around  £215,000.  As a result, the Trustees  asked for 
compensation (the difference between £215,000 and the valuation  at the time) to be paid.  
Tilney looked into the Trustees  complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything  wrong.  In 
short, it said:
The portfolio was made up of 22 holdings which it didnt consider to be excessive. It said 
that it believed  this provided  sufficient diversification without dilution  and of the 22 
holdings, only 8 individually  represented less than 3% of the total portfolio. It also added 
that for certain markets, such as Japan  and emerging  markets, the asset allocation was 
generally low in order to keep it aligned to the overall agreed risk mandate. 
It acknowledged  the funds were  more expensive than direct  equities, but it pointed out 
that given the size of the portfolio  holding direct  equities wouldnt have been suitable. It 
also said that investing funds reduced  the volatility of the portfolio. It said that if investing 
in direct  equities or limiting exposure to funds was a priority for the Trustees, they ought  
to have raised it sooner. 
It explained  that the general asset  allocation of the portfolio was 68% equity and 32% 
non-equity. It said that it disagreed  that too much  of the portfolio was in cash. The 7.5% 
figure which the Trustees had quoted was due to a special dividend  payment that had 
been made  that month. The rest of the time the general  cash  portion of the portfolio was 
around 5%, which it said was reasonable and not excessive. 
It didnt agree that it was reasonable to compare  the performance  of the portfolio with 
the FTSE100 index. It said that the index didnt take into account  charges and 
withdrawals which  obviously would affect  performance. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the Trustees  referred their complaint to this service. Tilney  
raised an objection  to this service looking  into the complaint based on the time limits set out in 
DISP 2.8. So an ombudsman issued a jurisdiction  on this case  in March  2019. He concluded 
that this service had jurisdiction to look into Tilneys management of the portfolio since 2012,  
because that fell within six years of when the complaint  was made. This service didnt have 
jurisdiction to consider  Tilneys earlier management or the inception of the portfolio. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint, but didnt consider it should  be upheld.  In 
summary, she considered  that Tilney had managed the portfolio in line with the mandate it 
had agreed, and the revised  risk questionnaire  and objectives which  were  agreed in 2013.  
She noted that the performance  of the portfolio  had been disappointing, but concluded that 
this wasnt in itself a reason to uphold the complaint. 
The Trustees didnt  agree with the adjudicator. In short, they said:
The overarching aim for the management  of the investment  was to preserve the capital 
against inflation. When tracking  the October  2012 valuation figure against inflation, they 
concluded the portfolio was worth almost  £12,000 less than it should have been had it 
grown in line with inflation. 
The funds which Tilney  had invested in had management fees  these doubled up on 
Tilneys own fees, which meant  that the portfolios capital  was continually eroded.
Tilney invested in a multitude of stocks which meant that any investment gains were 
necessarily diluted  when compared to a truly balanced portfolio.
Ref: DRN81808973Tilney was employed to use their expertise in investment management to protect the 
portfolio against inflation. The Trustees  said that during  the period in question  this was 
not achieved  and Tilney  didnt undertake a review of the strategy to try and pro-
actively improve the situation. Instead, the Trustees said Tilney  continued  to pursue a 
fundamentally flawed investment strategy. 
Tilney didnt  provide  the Trustees with any recommendations on how the Trusts 
investment goals could  be achieved, nor any recognition  that the portfolio was 
underperforming. The Trustees said that Tilney was the professional adviser  but had 
failed to act in that professional capacity.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to disappoint the Trustees  but, having  reviewed all the information, I dont agree 
that Tilney has acted unfairly or outside  the parameters  of the agreed discretionary mandate.
I should start by saying  that, in general, when considering complaints about the way a 
portfolio is managed, wed begin  by looking at the suitability of the portfolio in line with COBS  
9. This would involve  looking  at the agreed  mandate and the make-up of the portfolio, and 
deciding whether the portfolio overall, and the decisions to trade taken in any given  period,  
were suitable for the consumers. 
In this case it seems to me that theres  no real dispute over the suitability of the portfolio. 
The Trustees havent disputed that they were after a portfolio that carried a level of risk, nor 
have they in essence disputed the risk or lack of risk within  the portfolio (other than the issue  
of cash which I deal with below). I understand the Trustees were and likely still are 
experienced investors, who were aware  at the time of the relationship  between  risk and 
reward. And its clear from the evidence  Ive seen that Tilney was being  asked to manage 
the portfolio with the twin aims of capital growth  and capital preservation   in other words, it 
was imperative that the portfolio grow,  but given its size and its intended purpose, it was also 
imperative that capital wasnt eroded  through  exposure to volatile or very high risk 
investments. Im satisfied  both these aims were equally important to the Trustees.
Generally, I can see that from 2012 to 2018  the portfolio had broadly 60% to 68% equity 
content, with funds which exposed the Trust to a variety of markets  although primarily the 
UK. The low risk parts of the portfolio were made up between 15 to 20% fixed interest and 
cash, with the remainder  in specialist or alternative  investments.  In other words, I dont 
consider the portfolio itself was outside the risk tolerances which  the Trustees had agreed 
with Tilney, and which  they confirmed in 2013  when they updated their risk questionnaire. 
And given  the history  of the Trustees interactions  with Tilney during the period in question, 
Im not persuaded they had any misgivings  about  how the portfolio was being  managed.  Ive 
not seen any evidence that they raised  concerns  about the performance of the portfolio, or 
whether it was meeting their needs  nor have  I seen  any evidence  that the issue of 
investing in funds as opposed  to directly held equities was ever raised. 
Ref: DRN81808974In fact it seems to me that the Trustees were  happy  to give Tilney  a wide discretion  as to how 
and what to invest in to achieve  the objectives  they had set. Tilney  couldnt guarantee the 
performance of the portfolio. And I dont agree that a managed portfolio ought to be directly 
compared to the performance of an index such as the FTSE100. Tilney have pointed out the 
effect of fees and charges, but the make-up of the portfolio was also different. After  all, the 
Trustees werent paying for a managed portfolio to simply  a track an index such as the 
FTSE100  they were  paying for the possibility, given the expertise of the adviser looking after 
the portfolio, that it might exceed or do better than this or any other benchmark. In any event, 
the FTSE100 is an equity index  a portfolio that was solely  invested  in equities would not 
have met the Trustees objectives for ensuring the capital  was preserved as much as possible.   
The point underpinning all this, however, is that investment  returns  when investing in stock  
markets cannot  be guaranteed. It would be unfair for me to criticise Tilney  because some of 
their investment decisions didnt perform, when it took those  investment decisions  in good 
faith and in line with the mandate it had agreed with the Trustees. 
I agree  with the Trustees that Tilney, as the professional portfolio manager, ought to have 
ensured that the portfolio  was, as often as possible, continually aligned  with the mandate 
that was agreed. So even though the Trustees didnt raise any concerns during this period, 
Ive still taken into account the yearly  valuations and the make-up of the portfolio. But Ive not 
seen any significant  variations that would lead me to conclude that the portfolio was no 
longer suitable.  In fact I think Tilney were  consistent  in their attempts to achieve  the twin 
aims they had been set, and were  reasonably  prompt at investing cash  when the balance in 
the portfolio reached slightly higher levels. 
On this issue I dont  consider it fair for me to look at the cash balance  in the portfolio at one 
single point in time.  Im persuaded by the explanation that Tilney has provided for why it was 
higher in March  2018  and its fairly common for the cash balance  in a portfolio to fluctuate 
as dividends are distributed, or investments sold. In order for me to conclude that something 
had gone wrong,  Id need to see a cash balance which was too a high a proportion of the 
portfolio relative  to the risk that it was supposed  to be representing. Given that, generally  
speaking, the cash in the portfolio was almost always around 4% to 5%, Im not persuaded 
thats the case here. 
I also appreciate that, to a certain  degree,  the Trustees perception that the portfolio has 
performed poorly  is also due to the likely effect that charges have had on the capital. In that 
regard, they are right that by investing  in funds Tilney took a risk that the performance of 
these funds might not outweigh the additional cost to the portfolio. But thats precisely  the 
sort of decision the Trustees gave Tilney the discretion to make. There isnt anything, in my 
view, inherently wrong in a portfolio of this size having  funds  represent  the equity content  
rather than directly held shares.  And whilst on the one hand  directly held equities might be 
cheaper in terms of fees, the volatility they represent could very well outweigh  any cost 
savings. So on the face of it, given  that there was no inherent reason why Tilney shouldnt 
have considered funds, it was for the Trustees  to limit Tilneys discretion by specifying  that 
they didnt want  funds, or that they preferred  predominantly  directly held equities. Theres no 
evidence they indicated this to Tilney  in 2012  or later. 
Ref: DRN81808975Finally, Im also not persuaded by the Trustees concerns around  the volume of holdings  and 
smaller holdings. I say this primarily because  I dont consider the number of holdings to be 
excessive. But also because whilst investing a smaller proportion  of the portfolio in a particular 
fund might dilute any future  gains,  it also has the benefit of diluting any losses  or negative 
performance. And again, Tilney were being  required to carefully  balance  the need for the capital 
to grow with the need to ensure that it wasnt  eroded. As Ive said,  Im satisfied that both these  
aims were equally important to the Trustees.  So Im not persuaded that there was anything  
inherently unsuitable in the portfolio having  some, but by no means  all, smaller holdings. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the way Tilney managed  the portfolio between  2012 and 
2018 was suitable and in line with the mandate it had agreed with the Trustees. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to the Trustees, who I can see feel strongly about their 
complaint and have  provided thorough submissions to support their case. I hope, however, 
they can see that Ive only reached  my decision after careful consideration of the facts and 
evidence available. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Trustees to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8180897