K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. She is unhappy 
about the way it has managed her pension  funds.
background
Mrs W set up two personal  pensions with Prudential in 1989.  They  were arranged  with the 
assistance of an independent financial adviser  (IFA). Both plans were set up with a selected 
retirement age of 60. Mrs W didnt take her benefits at 60 and the retirement  age was 
extended to 65.
Prudential sent wake up letters to Mr W and her IFA in late 2018,  these letters  informed her 
that her retirement age was approaching and asked that she get in touch. Mrs W became 
concerned about  Prudentials  service  and she made a complaint. Prudential  accepted  that its 
service could have  been  better and offered £125  for any upset caused. Mrs W accepted that 
but raised further specific issues. She said, in summary:
She was unhappy  that she had been  given conflicting information  about when her 
funds would be transferred into a cash  fund,
Prudential didnt  tell her that it no longer  provided annuities,
Information was sent to the original IFA whom  she was no longer in contact  with,
Her investments  hadnt been managed properly.
Prudential didnt uphold  these complaints. It explained that funds would only be 
automatically switched  to cash when the selected retirement date was reached,  but that 
hadnt happened. Its letter from December  2018  had said this and it was also the case that 
funds could be switched  at any time on Mrs Ws request.
Prudential explained  that it had taken  a commercial decision to withdraw from the annuities  
market but wasnt  obliged to inform Mrs W about  this. 
Prudential had written  to the IFA whose details were in its records.  It had no reason to know  
the IFA was no longer  involved.
Prudential didnt agree  that the funds  had been poorly managed.  It explained that the funds 
Mrs W invested in were  UK funds which, by definition,  meant  that there were limits on the 
diversity of investment.
Mrs W didnt agree and referred her complaint to this service where it was considered by an 
investigator. The investigator didnt think the complaint  should  be upheld.  She explained that 
the terms of the pension  plans allowed for automatic transfer of the funds to cash funds once 
the selected retirement age was reached. But this hadnt happened as the selected 
retirement age had been extended to 65. Mrs W could always have changed the 
investments if shed wished and the investigator  felt that the correspondence had been 
reasonably clear about that. So although  the value of the funds had decreased,  Prudential  
werent obliged  to backdate a switch to cash.
The investigator also noted that Prudential  no longer  provided  annuities. Although it hadnt 
told Mrs W of this change, it hadnt  offered its annuities as an option for her in the retirement  
options provided.
Ref: DRN85826492The investigator noted that Prudential  had written to the IFA, but there was nothing  to 
suggest that any data had been  compromised  or there had been any loss to Mrs W. The 
investigator explained that if she wanted  to make  a complaint about a breach of the data 
protection rules, that would be a matter  for the Information Commissioner and not this 
service.
And the investigator  said that there was no evidence to suggest  the funds had been 
mismanaged. Prudential  were not responsible for the advice to invest.
Mrs W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  She said, in summary, 
that she hadnt been aware of her option  to switch  funds and had she been  she would have 
switched to cash. Prudential hadnt  told her that her funds wouldnt  automatically  be 
switched to cash and she should have been  informed that it no longer offered annuities.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the background to this complaint above, but Ive considered all the 
information thats been provided. Having done  that, Ive reached the same conclusions as 
the investigator and for essentially the same  reasons. There is little that I can add to what  
has already been  said.  I dont  uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
I can understand that Mrs W is unhappy with the decline in value of her funds. But Im 
satisfied that she has always had the opportunity to switch her investments  if she wished to. 
This was always a feature of the plans and was set out in the policy booklet. 
Prudential would have  switched the funds  to cash once the selected retirement date was 
reached but this didnt  happen. The retirement  age was switched  from 60 to 65. Prudential 
couldnt switch  the funds  to cash without Mrs Ws agreement unless the retirement age was 
reached. Its true that some pension plans include life styling  which allows  for automatic 
fund switches to less volatile investments in the years  before retirement,  but these plans 
didnt include that feature.  I dont think Prudential was wrong to allow the funds to remain  
invested rather than being switched to cash. Thats what the terms provided for. So I dont 
think it would  be fair to direct that it make any backdated switch  to cash as it hasnt done 
anything wrong  in my view. 
Prudential didnt expressly tell Mrs W that it no longer provided annuities.  But its retirement 
options werent misleading about  this. And Mrs W could look to another  provider for an 
annuity if she wished  to.
Ive seen nothing  to say that any sensitive data has been compromised or that Mrs W has 
suffered any financial  loss as a result of any data breach. Prudential sent correspondence to 
the IFA that was recorded as the relevant  adviser. Mrs W was always free to remove  or 
change that adviser.  And, as the investigator has said, any complaint about  a breach of data 
protection rules  should be referred  to the Information Commissioner.
Like the investigator, Im not aware that there  has been any criticism  of the management of 
this fund by the regulator. The fund invested  in UK assets and so by definition  there  was 
Ref: DRN85826493some lack of diversity and that may mean  that there  was some increased volatility. But it was 
not Prudentials  role to advise  her on the investment or the fund choices. And as Ive said,  
Prudential couldnt  switch the investment without Mrs Ws agreement (except at retirement 
age). It was always open to Mrs W to switch  or spread  her investments.
I can appreciate that Mrs W was disappointed with the reduction in value of her funds. But 
having considered the evidence carefully,  Im not satisfied that Prudential mishandled her 
pension funds. I dont  think  it has done  anything wrong (apart from the service issues for 
which redress was agreed and paid)  and so it wouldnt be fair to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8582649