K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the end of lease charges that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi 
Capital) have asked  him to pay to refurbish his car to the contractual return standard.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new vehicle in November 2015. He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with Hitachi Capital. 
But when he returned the car at the end of the three  year hire period, and it was inspected, 
he was disappointed to be told he would need  to pay £1,341.18 for refurbishment  work 
Hitachi Capital said would  be necessary to bring  the vehicle back to the expected  condition.  
The charges  covered  16 areas of damage.
Mr M complained to Hitachi Capital. He said he hadnt  received an email that detailed  the 
condition Hitachi Capital  required the car to be returned in. They agreed that they had an 
incorrect e-mail address  for him and they therefore removed £100 of charges. 
But Mr M wasnt satisfied with their response. He thought they hadnt  completed the repairs 
anyway and were  therefore  going  to profit from the charges  they sought to impose.  He 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator noted that the terms of Mr Ms contract required him to return  the car in a 
good condition  and explained  that condition would be measured against the industry 
guidelines provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA).  He 
therefore reviewed  the photographic evidence in the inspection report  that had been 
completed but he thought the damage that had been recorded was clearly in excess of the 
standard for all 16 charges. He understood that Mr M hadnt received the inspection 
standard but he noted that it was referred to in the terms and conditions,  and he thought 
Hitachi Capitals offer to reduce the bill by £100 was fair in the circumstances. He also 
thought theyd been fair when not completing the repairs but sending the car straight to 
auction. He thought they were entitled  to do that and overall, he didnt think  they needed to 
take any further action.
But Mr M still disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN87049772Mr M acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the hire agreement explained that the car should be returned in good  condition 
and repair  and that any damage would  be reviewed using the BVRLA  standard. So I think 
Mr M was aware the car would be inspected and even if he wasnt  provided with the BVRLA 
standard I think its reasonable to suggest  he couldve have obtained it or questioned the 
standard with Hitachi Capital.  By that time however, I think most of the damage wouldve 
been incurred.  So Im not sure it would have made a difference  and Im persuaded that 
Hitachi Capitals offer of £100 is reasonable in the circumstances.
The adjudicator has reviewed the damage  in the photographs provided and Ive done  the 
same. Ive considered the damage  against the rulers and line boards included  in the pictures  
so that I can establish  the extent of it. The adjudicator provided detailed  comments on each 
picture and I agree with his view on each area of damage. I wont repeat those findings here 
but I can confirm that where there  were scratches Ive been persuaded that the scratches 
have penetrated  to the primer as I can see the body in white beneath. Where  there  were  
dents Ive been persuaded that there  have been too many per panel  or theyve been too big. 
Ive decided the alloy damage  is also beyond  the fair wear and tear standard as its either  in 
excess of 50mm or theres damage  to the spokes. Theres a valet charge and Ive seen the 
photograph of the seat back  that shows this would  be necessary - the standard  supports the 
charge. I think the charge for the missing  puncture repair kit is also fair and within the 
guidelines and the damaged door mirror  is also chargeable as its demonstrably  beyond fair 
wear and tear. 
Hitachi Capital dont  have  to complete the repairs. Theres no contractual  obligation that Ive 
seen. I think its reasonable to suggest that the charges are levied to compensate them  for 
any loss in value  of the car when they sell it, as they will have assumed a good  vehicle 
return condition when  they set up the hire agreement and considered  the credit they could 
advance and the charges theyd make. So, as I think its reasonable to assume the vehicle 
will reduce  in value  as a result  of the damage, I think  Hitachi  Capital have been fair making 
the refurbishment charges they have  done and Im not asking them to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8704977