K821x#15complaint
Mr N and Mrs B have  complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) incorrectly 
confirmed that they were  covered by a breakdown policy provided by a FlexPlus packaged 
bank account,  when they were in fact not covered.
background
Mr N and Mrs B applied  to open  a fee-paying  FlexPlus packaged bank account. Following 
their application,  Mr N contacted Nationwide on 5 January 2019 to check if the cover from 
the various products provided with the account were in place. And Nationwide responded on 
the same  day to say that the cover  provided  by the various account benefits  was in place.
Mr N then went on to use the breakdown  cover on 6 January 2019 and later received an 
invoice for £100  for the cost of using the breakdown cover. 
When Mr N complained to Nationwide that hed been charged, it agreed that it had 
incorrectly told him that cover would  start on 5 January when it actually started on 7 January. 
Nationwide did not offer to reimburse  Mr Ns costs to recover his vehicle,  but it did offer to 
pay him £50 for the inconvenienced caused  to him.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and upheld it. He felt that as Mr N had been 
assured that cover  was in place, he was not given the option to make alternative 
arrangements. So, in addition to the £50 that Nationwide had already offered, he also asked 
it to reimburse Mr N £100 for the costs  to recover his vehicle.
Nationwide disagreed with this, so the matter  has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.
It does not appear  to be in dispute  that Mr N and Mrs B applied  for a fee-paying FlexPlus  
packaged bank  account and that on 5 January 2019 Mr N was incorrectly assured by 
Nationwide that the various  products provided by the account were  up and running, when in 
fact they werent  and were due to commence  cover on 7 January 2019.
So I have  gone  on to consider what loss, if any this caused Mr N and Mrs B. 
Nationwide says that as the breakdown wouldve  always happened,  Mr N and Mrs B 
wouldve always made the breakdown claim when they did. And from checking  the average  
cost to arrange a recovery  vehicle, it believes that Mr N and Mrs B wouldve likely to have 
paid a similar amount  to what they were charged, to get their car recovered anyway. So it 
says that Mr N and Mrs B wouldve likely to have suffered the loss, even if it had given Mr N 
the correct information. However, Im not persuaded by Nationwides point.
Ref: DRN84449272Mr N and Mrs B have  provided evidence to show that Mr N had another  breakdown policy in 
place, and this was cancelled on 10 January 2019.  Its not clear when exactly  the request  to 
cancel the policy was made. But Nationwide  checked what  the cancellation timescales  are 
like with the provider  of that policy. And it confirmed that it can take up to 48 hours  to cancel 
a policy. So, Nationwide  says the earliest  Mr N couldve  requested to cancel his alternative 
cover was 8 January 2019. 
But even if that were the case, this shows that its more likely than not that Mr N had 
alternative breakdown  cover in place on 6 January 2019 i.e. when the breakdown  happened. 
Therefore, had Nationwide explained that its cover  was not due to start until 7 January 2019, 
then I think its most likely that Mr N wouldve simply relied on his other  breakdown cover to 
recover his vehicle. So, if things had gone  as they shouldve, I dont think  that Mr N and Mrs 
B wouldve had to pay £100  to get the vehicle recovered.
Nationwide has said that as its breakdown product provider warned Mr N at the time that it 
could not locate his details with Nationwide, he may have to pay for the recovery  service  and 
therefore that any resultant loss was due to Mr Ns own actions. Ive thought about that, but 
essentially, I think the only reason Mr N went ahead with it was that hed already been 
assured by Nationwide that he was covered. So, I think it was entirely reasonable for Mr N to 
have thought that either his name not being on the list was because it hadnt been  updated  
yet or there was some  other admin  error.
So, I can see why, even  though hed been  warned that he might be charged to recover  his 
vehicle, he proceeded to use the breakdown cover. And I think had Mr N not been misled by 
Nationwide, Mr N wouldve just relied on his other  policy  instead.
Therefore, I think the incorrect information that Nationwide provided caused  Mr N to 
unnecessarily pay £100 for his car to be recovered.  And, in addition  to this, I think that, given 
the avoidable inconvenience that has been  caused  to Mr N and Mrs B, I think that 
Nationwides offer of £50 is reasonable in the circumstances.
putting matters right
So, in addition to the £50 that Nationwide has already offered to pay Mr N and Mrs B, I also 
require it to reimburse them what they paid to recover  their vehicle, which  I understand to 
have been £100. And if they did pay this fee, Nationwide should  also pay them  8% simple 
interest on this amount,  calculated from the date they paid it to the date of settlement, less 
deductible tax.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr N and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN84449273my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I uphold  this complaint and require  Nationwide  
Building Society to do what  I have  said above to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2019
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8444927