K820x#14complaint
Mr H brings this complaint  on behalf  of his business,  which  I will refer to as G. 
Mr H complains that Starling Bank  Limited  unfairly returned  £2,400 of his funds to the 
sending bank. Mr H wants Starling to return his funds.
background
In July 2018 Starling Bank  placed a block  on Gs account following a number of credits  into 
the account. Starling Bank received a claim from another bank to say that one of the credits,  
for £3,000, into Gs account was fraudulent. So it didnt release the money  to Mr H. Starling 
Bank also received  two further claims,  in July 2018,  for credits of £1,900 and £500 which 
they returned to the sending bank. At this point they gave Mr H 30 days  notice that the 
account will be closed. 
Mr H says the credits into his account related  to cryptocurrency sales  and Starling Bank 
shouldnt have sent the money back. He complained to Starling  Bank. He said the money  
was rightfully his and provided paperwork to prove he was entitled to the £2,400. Starling  
Bank didnt  think it had done  anything wrong,  and it told Mr H it had acted in line with its legal 
and regulatory  obligations. 
Starling Bank provided Mr H the remaining balance in Gs account. Mr H wasnt  happy  with 
this. He says Starling Bank owes him £2,400. Se he complained to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint. And they thought  Starling Bank had 
acted fairly  in returning Mr Hs funds  to the sending bank.  Starling Bank  accepted our 
investigators opinion  but Mr H didnt agree. He said:
-he doesnt believe Starling Bank  completed  a thorough investigation  before returning  
the money
-hed been  provided with information from the customer to prove  the transactions 
were genuine
-he doesnt understand how the customer can claim the transactions  were  fraudulent  
when he has this proof
As Mr H didnt  agree its been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand Mr Hs feelings in this matter. He says hes out of pocket but having looked at 
whats happened here, I have to agree with the investigator in saying  that Starling Bank were 
entitled to send the funds  back  to the sending bank. 
Mr H says he is entitled to the money  paid into his account. He says its legitimate business  
transactions for cryptocurrency which he says he sold. And he hasnt done  anything  wrong. 
Mr H says he lost a significant amount of money  and that may well be the case. I do 
understand that Mr H is upset, but for me to uphold this complaint  I need to be satisfied the 
bank has done  something wrong.  And in this case, I dont think it has. 
Ref: DRN81987472Banks must  be able to communicate with each  other  to protect their customers  when money  
has been sent to the wrong  account  or they believe fraud has taken place. And this is what  
happened here  the other  bank  told Starling Bank  that the credits  to Gs account were  
fraudulent. Ive looked at the evidence  that Starling Bank relied on to return  the money  and 
having done so Im satisfied that in these circumstances  the bank had no choice  but to send 
the £2,400 back to the other bank. 
So I cant say Starling  Bank did anything wrong.  
I know that Mr H is upset,  and I acknowledge what hes said about the money he says hes 
owed from his buyer. If this is the case Mr H will need to take action elsewhere to try and 
reclaim money  he thinks hes owed.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8198747