K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund  any of the commission it received 
from her PPI premiums for the policy she took out in 2005 to cover  her mortgage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mrs As complaint about commission. She has also 
suggested the PPI mayve  been  mis-sold, but that has been dealt with as a separate  
complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA),  issued 
some rules  about how businesses should deal with complaints  about  PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions were added to the 
Consumer Credit Act in 2006  and came  into force on 6 April 2007. For these provisions to 
apply to credit agreements taken out before this date, the credit agreement would still need  
to be running on 6 April 2008 and it would  still need  to be covered by the Consumer  Credit  
Act on this date.
On 31st October  2004 the regulation of mortgages by the FCA began   and mortgages were 
no longer covered by the Consumer Credit Act. As Mrs As mortgage was taken out after 31st 
October 2004 it was regulated and it wasnt covered by the Consumer  Credit  Act. This 
means the FCAs rules  and guidance  dont apply.  So HSBC doesnt need  to refund any of 
the commission Mrs A paid for the PPI she had with her mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN87616462
Ref: DRN8761646