K821x#15complaint
Miss T complained about esure Insurance Limited  s service  when she claimed for 
accident repairs under  her motor insurance policy.
background
Miss T had a non-fault accident in March 2018  and esure agreed to have her car repaired 
by their approved  repairers (which Ill call esures garage). She said that they took too 
long, didnt fix it properly  and caused more  damage. Although she had a courtesy car, she 
was without her car for many months and she felt that it had caused  her time and stress. 
Even when  esure said that theyd repaired it fully, she remained unhappy with its condition 
and sold it.
Miss T had first got her car back from the garage in May and had been  telling esure  about 
problems with it since then. Esure accepted  that they hadnt  acted  quickly enough to deal 
with her concerns,  and they compensated her £200 for that. In about August  they 
instructed an independent engineer to report  on it.
The independent engineer first reported in September and confirmed that Miss Ts car did 
need rectification,  though not all the issues where related to the accident or the garages 
repairs. But esure agreed to fix them all anyway, as a goodwill gesture. In November the 
independent engineer re-inspected her car to check if all the matters had been resolved.  
They said that all work had been  completed  to a good  standard.
But Miss T said there were  still repair  issues,  including  that the engine wasnt running 
right. Esure  agreed  to fix the repair issues, and to send  her car to a manufacturer  garage 
to test the claimed engine problem. They said that if that report confirmed  that there was 
an engine problem which was related  either to the accident or the garages repairs,  they 
would pay for the report and the repairs. They also paid her a further  £150  in 
compensation. But the manufacturer  garage reported that the engine issue  was not 
related to the accident or the garage  repairs but was due to wear  and tear. Miss T 
accepted this but when  esure returned  her car to her to her in December she refused to 
accept it. She said that her car had more marks on it, mould in its boot and was dirty from 
bird droppings.
Esure denied responsibility for these new issues  and said they hadnt worked on those 
areas of her car and they werent required under  the policy to clean her car. However, they 
did pay her another £150 for her to have her car professionally valeted and to replace  the 
door seal.
Miss T then sent esure another list of issues  including about the brakes.  Esure agreed to 
have the independent  engineer check the brakes but esure  felt that every  time they 
returned her car, Miss T gave them a list of new issues which  they didnt feel were  related 
to the accident  or their repairs.  Esure had the independent engineer do another  full 
inspection which identified  about  seventeen  issues, only two of which were esures fault.  
But esure say they resolved them nevertheless, out of goodwill. The independent engineer 
reported in March that all of that work had been  resolved  to a good standard  and the 
garage returned her car in March.
Ref: DRN83685032In total esure paid Miss T compensation  of £350 and gave her £150 for valeting  and a 
small repair. They felt that the steps  they had taken and the compensation theyd paid 
appropriately acknowledged what had happened. But Miss T didnt think  this was enough 
for the stress  and inconvenience  of the situation  and for being without her own car for so 
long.
The investigator thought that esure  had failed to act fairly and reasonably overall and so 
they should compensate Miss T a further  £150  and proceed with rectifying her car to put it 
back in its pre-accident condition. Subsequent to the investigators opinion,  esure  said 
theyd rectified all repairs and the independent  engineer had confirmed that. Miss T was still 
unhappy with her car and she sold it.
Miss Ts complaint has been passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision on 28 
August saying that I intending to uphold  it. Miss T accepted  the decision. Despite reminders, 
esure did not reply. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments again  to decide what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont assess whether or how damage  to a car would be caused as this is a matter for 
the experts in these  situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these  
complaints is to determine whether  an insurer company has considered all the available 
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  to not pay for additional repairs.
I didnt go into the detail of what Miss T was wrong with her car or to itemise all the items of 
repair. Thats because I considered that they had been fully canvassed in the information 
that Miss T and esure provided and in our investigators view. My role is to look at the 
situation overall and decide if in the circumstances esure have acted fairly and reasonably.
The investigator recommended  that esure  should compensate Miss T a further  £150  and 
rectify her car to put it back  in its pre-accident condition. But since the investigators  view 
matters moved on substantially. Esure said they fixed all outstanding  matters with Miss Ts 
car. I saw that the independent  engineer  report in March  2019 said all work  had been done 
to a good standard. esures garage  returned  her car but, because she was still unhappy 
with it, she sold it. That meant that further rectification of the car was no longer possible.
I thought that it was reasonable  of esure  to obtain  and act on the independent engineer  
reports. They did act on Miss Ts concerns, had her car inspected several times by an 
independent engineer, and acted on his recommendations.
The latest report of the independent  engineer concluded that the repairs  had been finalised 
to a good standard. I hadnt  been shown any expert evidence by Miss T at that stage  to 
suggest that what she still thought was wrong  with her car then was incident or garage  repair  
related. And without  such evidence to counter the conclusions in the latest report  of the 
independent engineer, I cant say that esure havent done enough to fix her car. And so, I 
would not, even if she still had her car, have required them to pay for any more  repairs.
Ref: DRN83685033But I didnt think that esure handled her issue sufficiently promptly  at the start. I think that 
contributed to her lack of faith in them and their garages workmanship, so that eventually  
she became suspicious  that her car had other problems which werent obvious. I did see 
that esure fixed some issues which the independent  engineer hadnt  attributed  to the 
garage or the accident, and I thought that this was fair of them.  They also provided a 
courtesy car.
However, even taking that into account, I still thought that esure took too long to take 
notice of Miss Ts concerns and deal with the issue. It took esure from May to October 
before they first assessed  her car and got it to their garage for the remedial work. Even if 
she had a courtesy car, thats not the same  as having her own car, and its clear that the 
whole situation  had caused  her much stress and inconvenience.
Esure say they paid her £150 for valeting  and a minor replacement, and £350  in 
compensation. I didnt  think  thats enough compensation. Even if not all the time the 
garage had her car could be attributed to esures  fault, the period to mid-November can, 
and that is too long when  the incident was in March. I didnt think  that this was reasonable. 
And so, I didnt think that what  esure  had paid Miss T in compensation adequately 
compensated her for this. I thought that they should pay her a further £200 on top of the 
compensation that they had already paid her.
Miss T accepted my provisional  decision.  So, as esure have not replied, I see no 
reason to change  it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above  and in my provisional decision, its my final 
decision that I uphold  this complaint and require esure Insurance Limited  to pay 
Miss T £200 in compensation, additional to what theyve already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Esure must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them Miss T 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If esure  consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Miss T how much they have taken off and give Miss T a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8368503