K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr W about  the way that 
their home insurance claim for water  damage was handled by Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
In December 2017 Mr and Mrs W suffered a large  amount of water flooding  their property 
from a tank in the loft. RSA wasnt able to send out anyone before Christmas to make  the 
property safe, so paid for Mr and Mrs W to stay in alternative accommodation. They  were  
both elderly and suffered from ill health. 
RSA appointed loss adjusters who arranged drying  and then inspected  the damage in 
January 2018.  The damage was caused by the tank shifting, it had been  raised  on breeze 
blocks, which had collapsed. Dehumidifiers were installed  and the property was certified  as 
dry by 21 February.  There was some initial discussion about whether RSA was liable for 
repair of the tank itself (as opposed  to the damage caused by the escape  of water). However 
its contractors went  ahead and reinstated the tank on a wooden  platform.
When the system was reinstated, another leak took place which  caused  further  flooding.  The 
leak was quickly repaired. No further drying  out was required, but it was identified that there 
was a bitumen  floor underneath the parquet floor, which needed to be tested for asbestos.  
However Mr and Mrs W werent willing to have RSA's contractors  back to the property. They  
decided to instruct their own builder to carry out the repair  work.  When  that builder (Mr D) 
attended, he advised that the tank was unsafe  and that it didnt comply with building  
regulations. He estimated a further £5-6,000  to fix it. At first RSAs contractor denied  this 
was the case,  pointing  out that the structure was a like for like repair (albeit without the loose 
breeze blocks). 
Mr D brought in a building control officer from the local authority, who condemned the 
structure and said it was unsafe. The loss adjuster  visited  the property and said that the 
structure was unsafe  as it currently  stood. It consulted  with the contractors who said the 
recommended strengthening would cost around  £900. They  were  however unwilling to come 
back to the property. RSA offered for new contractors  to come out and carry out the repair, 
but Mr and Mrs W felt that they had a builder they could trust and instructed Mr D to carry 
out the repairs.
RSA negotiated a cash settlement. Having consulted with its technical adviser, it said that 
the repairs didnt  need to comply with current building regulations, being repairs  rather  than 
new construction work. It was however prepared to pay what it estimated the full repairs, 
with the tank on a strengthened platform would cost. It paid £8,965  for remedial  work,  plus 
other costs  like the carpets,  light fittings and a daily disturbance allowance for the time 
Mr and Mrs W were without heating and hot water. RSA also paid their hotel expenses for 
the tine they were  out of the property.
Ref: DRN81647262Mr and Mrs W complained about  the delays and poor communication  and about the 
substantial distress caused to them when they were both suffering from ill health. RSA paid 
compensation of £1,000. Mr and Mrs W werent  happy with this, pointing  out that they were 
substantially out of pocket from the extra costs they had to pay to Mr D. Mr W sadly died in 
April 2019.
After referral to this service, our investigator  said that RSAs actions and payment of 
compensation were  appropriate. Mrs W wasnt happy with this, and the matter  has been  
passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delay/lack of communication
When the claim was reported, RSA took action to get the services turned off and for 
Mr and Mrs W to be moved  to hotel accommodation.  It started drying out the property in 
early January and assessed the necessary repairs at a site meeting on 12 January 2018. I 
appreciate that Mr and Mrs W were anxious  to return to their property as soon  as possible, 
but the process of drying out after such a substantial escape of water  does unfortunately 
take time.  There is some evidence that Mr or Mrs W chased up the loss adjusters and that 
information given  to Mrs W didnt  reach  Mr W, and vice versa.  And they appear to have been  
given the impression that the repairs would be completed within a few weeks of starting the 
drying, rather than from the property  being certified  as dry. Mr and Mrs W decided by 
1 March that they wanted their own contractor  to finish the work. RSA withdrew its 
contractors on 12 March.
As for delays after that, I think it took RSA some time to recognise that it needed to go and 
inspect the tank and assess whether the contractors were  responsible  for the damage. The 
revisit took place on 13 April, the work having  stopped on 12 March.
RSA offered its final payment on 2 July. It did require an itemised account from Mr D and the 
whole case had to be reviewed by its technical  adviser, so I dont think  there was any 
unnecessary delay here.
Overall I think  there were  delays  here in RSA recognising that it needed  to reassess  the 
work done to the tank.
work to the tank platform
When RSA inspected the property it noted that the tank stood on some loose breeze blocks,  
raised to increase the water  pressure. It was clearly in an unsafe situation and as RSA 
identified at first Mr and Mrs W could  have been  told they had to pay for the reinstallation of 
the tank. But having decided to reinstall the tank, it was up to RSA to ensure it was put back  
in a safe position. Clearly the breeze block method wasnt appropriate, so RSAs  contractors  
constructed a wooden  platform. It appears that the second leak occurred in a pipe at the 
other end of the tank to the original leak, after it was put on the platform.
I note that the contractors  denied responsibility for the leak and said the new platform  was 
safe. This doesnt  accord with the building control inspectors opinion  or with RSAs  further  
Ref: DRN81647263inspection. Whether or not RSA was required to comply  with building  regulations, the design 
of the platform was unsafe and put extra pressure on the ceiling  joists.  
I think RSA's  contractors were responsible for the second leak and for not ensuring  that the 
repair to the tank was safe. Having said that, Mr and Mrs W refused to have the contractors 
back to the property and also refused RSAs offer of new contractors. RSA paid a substantial  
amount towards  the new repairs but ultimately couldnt accept Mr Ds full charges for 
carrying out the work. I understand that RSA would have put strengthening in as 
recommended by the building control officer whereas  Mr D decided  to redo all the work.  We 
would normally expect  the insurer to be given the opportunity to carry out any remedial 
repairs so I dont propose to award any of Mr and Mrs Ws costs over and above  what  they 
were paid by RSA.
compensation
I recognise (as did RSA)  that Mr and Mrs W were in a vulnerable  position,  and they both 
suffered from serious health issues. I believe that whilst  RSA was willing to pay for hotel 
accommodation, on a couple of occasions  they couldnt get there because of the snow. 
Thats unfortunate but there wasnt much RSA could do about that. Mr and Mrs W also took 
the decision that they wanted to continue living in the property during the day and keep 
some of their furniture there. Ultimately RSA paid them a disturbance allowance when they 
werent in hotels, but their presence  in the property and the contractors having to work  
around them did cause  difficulties. 
This was a serious  escape of water  and it wasnt going to be resolved quickly.  Nevertheless I 
recognise that the second leak would have caused  Mr and Mrs W serious distress,  as did 
the fact that the tank had been put back in an unsafe position. This was particularly taking  
into account their health issues making  it particularly difficult for them to be without heating. 
So I think it was appropriate for RSA to pay compensation. That was £1,000  and bearing in 
mind our awards in other cases I think that adequately recognised the seriousness of the 
position. So I wont make  any further award.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8164726