K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC has blocked a number of debit card payments  
which has cost them thousand  of pounds due to currency changes  and has caused them 
significant stress and Mr S health  problems.
background
Mr S says hes had problems using his Lloyds  debit card to a company I will call M whom 
he uses to transfer  money to the United States(US)  where he now lives,  as the card has 
been blocked on about eight occasions.  He says Lloyds staff wouldnt explain  the problem 
and its actions have  caused financial hardship and health problems. Mr S says hes lost 
about £8,000 due to currency  changes and has to pay $17,000 for his health care costs  
which he says were  caused by Lloyds actions.
Lloyds says its reviewed  Mr and Mrs Ss account  since January 2017  and says the account 
card was blocked on three occasions  in May and August 2017 and in April 2018. It says it 
had security concerns  but was unable to contact Mr S as it only held a United Kingdom (UK) 
telephone number for him. Lloyds says its previously  advised Mr and Mrs S that it is a UK 
bank for UK residents  and is unable to call outside  the UK in these circumstances.
Mr S brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt think Lloyds had made a mistake 
or acted  unfairly.  He thought that Lloyds had declined four transactions but had acted in line 
with the account terms and conditions where  there were fraud and security concerns. The 
investigator didnt  think  he could fairly interfere in Lloyds use of its commercial  judgement  in 
these circumstances.  
Mr S provided a list of declined transactions from M which included a transaction that 
couldnt have  taken place as it was for a date in the future. The investigator compared that 
list with Mr and Mrs Ss account card numbers  and thought that some  of the transactions  
were more likely to have  been  from a different  account. He thought it likely that Lloyds 
records were correct.
Mr and Mrs S remain unhappy with that view and say their account  took some  time to 
unblock and would like to be compensated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons. I realise  that Mr and Mrs S will 
be disappointed  by my decision and I appreciate how strongly they feel about whats 
happened.
Banks and building societies must have fraud and security measures in order  to protect their 
customers money. I appreciate that on occasions  genuine transactions  can be blocked 
where a business  has those  security concerns and I also appreciate  that in those 
circumstances customers are caused some inconvenience. But I also think that a bank or 
building society is entitled to make such decisions when it exercises its commercial 
judgement and is not something I can fairly interfere in. Im also satisfied, that in line with the 
account terms and conditions, Lloyds is entitled  to take such measures.
Ive not seen any evidence that Lloyds has acted unfairly here or deliberately  blocked Mr and 
Mrs Ss account. I can see that over a 12 month period about four transactions to M were  
Ref: DRN82283152blocked. I appreciate  Mr S has provided  a list from M which  suggests more  transactions 
were declined, but I agree with the investigator that it appears a different card to the Lloyds 
debit card was used for some of them. Im also satisfied that Lloyds couldnt contact Mr and 
Mrs S about  the account block as they hadnt provided an up to date contact number. So I 
think if there was a delay  in removing the block or processing the transaction then it was 
likely to have been caused by this. Ive also looked through  Mr and Mrs Ss account 
statements and I can see the account appears to have been  used regularly  and I cant see 
that they were  unable  to access their account  for significant periods.
Im satisfied that Lloyds  has dealt  fairly  with Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and has also 
explained that its a UK based  bank  for UK residents and couldnt normally  contact 
customers outside the UK. So I think Mr and Mrs S shouldve been  aware  in April 2018 that 
there may be difficulties  in carrying out the transactions they wanted to and in removing 
account blocks for those  reasons.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs S say they have lost a large  amount of money  and have incurred 
medical fees has a result  of Lloyds actions. As I dont think Lloyds has made  a mistake here 
I cant fairly or reasonably order Lloyds to pay compensation or reimburse those costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228315