K822xComplaint
Mr S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
I sent my provisional decision on 13 August 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
Satsuma should  not have  lent some  of these loans, and how it should put that right.  I said 
Id consider anything  else anyone wanted to send me  so long as I received  it by 
13 September 2019.
Mr S said he was happy with the outcome and wanted to press  forward. Satsuma 
confirmed it had received  the provisional decision, but didnt add anything further.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent in any new evidence  or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, 
Ive come to the same  conclusions as before.
Putting things  right  what  Satsuma needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 3 to 5 inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Mr Ss credit file;
Mr Ss debt situation from loan 4 onwards  means any information recorded about 
these loans is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from 
Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. I direct Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) to put things right 
in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN80555182COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mr S says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about  5 high-cost short-term loans Satsuma provided to Mr S between June 2015 
and April 2018. Mr Ss lending history is as follows:
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Mr S disagreed  with our adjudicators option and 
asked for an ombudsman to decide the case, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice   on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr S could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably  have done more 
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Satsuma  was required to establish whether 
Mr S could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Loan Date  opened Date  closedAmount
borrowedContractual 
repayment 
(monthly)Contractual term 
(months)
1 30/06/2015 02/10/2015 £250 £116.65 3
2 09/10/2015 06/08/2016 £300 £143.09 3
3 15/02/2017 28/05/2017 £200 £98.40 3
4 08/07/2017 12/04/2018 £500 £111.00 9
5 29/10/2017 09/02/2018 £100 £49.20 3
Ref: DRN80555183Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments . And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think I have enough to say that loans 1 or 2 were  irresponsibly 
lent. For example,  these  loans  were relatively small  compared  to Mr Ss stated income, and according 
to his stated outgoings it looked like he had more  than enough  disposable income to reliably meet  the 
repayments. Mr S took out these loans  very early  on in his relationship with Satsuma and, from the 
information I have, he didnt have any history of insolvency or county court  judgements which the 
lender shouldve  known about. While Mr S made some payments late on loan 1, hed explained to 
Satsuma that it was because of administrative issues around getting  a replacement debit card. So at 
the point of lending loans 1 and 2, I dont think Satsuma had sufficient  reason to look deeper into 
Mr Ss circumstances or to be concerned  that he was in difficulties.
However, over the course of loan 2 Mr S consistently missed payments or made them  late. He set up 
repayment plans with Satsuma but repeatedly wasnt able to meet those  plans. In the end it took 
around three times as long to clear the loan as it was originally  supposed to take.
There was a gap of about  six months between Mr S finishing loan 2 and taking out loan 3. But in that 
time he did apply for another loan and was declined,  so Satsuma was aware he was still trying to get 
short-term credit. Indeed, their credit check for loan 3 revealed that Mr S had had other short-term 
loans in the recent  months before. So I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for Satsuma  to 
assume that Mr Ss financial  situation  had fully moved  on from whatever had caused him to need  
loans 1 and 2.
Given the severe problems that Mr S had in repaying  loan 2, I think  a proportionate check for loan 3 
shouldve involved a more comprehensive look at his financial situation, such as verifying what  Mr S 
had said about his income and expenditure. Had Satsuma done that, it wouldve seen that Mr S had 
been living in his overdraft, frequently going over the £4,000 limit, and that his expenditure was much 
higher than he stated,  with a large  proportion  of it being for what appears to be gambling. Further, 
Mr Ss credit  history wouldve revealed  that over the years hed taken out a large number of payday 
loans and often fallen into arrears.
So I dont think Satsuma used proportionate checks in assessing loan 3. If it had done, I think it 
wouldve found that Mr S was unlikely to be able to sustainably meet its repayments.  And so I think 
loan 3 was irresponsibly lent.
Ive also looked at the overall  pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr S, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which Satsuma should reasonably  have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point  was reached by loan 4. I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN80555184By the time Mr S asked for loan 4 hed been borrowing from Satsuma for a lengthy period and 
he wasnt  making  any real inroads to the amount he owed  Satsuma. Loan 4 was taken out 
two years after Mr Ss first. And it was for a much larger amount, with a higher monthly  
repayment over a longer  term.  By then, Mr S had paid large  amounts of interest to Satsuma 
to effectively service a debt to it over an extended  period.
Loan  4 was taken out just six weeks after loan 3 ended, and loan 5 was taken  out while Mr S 
was still in the middle of paying off loan 4. And by that point Mr S had a long history of taking 
out payday loans across multiple  lenders.  So Satsuma ought to have realised it was more 
likely than not Mr S was having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances,  and that Mr Ss indebtedness  was continuing unsustainably.
I think  that Mr S lost out because  Satsuma continued to provide borrowing  from loan 4 onwards 
because:
these  loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging  Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length  of time Mr S had been borrowing from Satsuma was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding the complaint about loans  4 and 5, and Satsuma should  put things right.
Putting things right   what I think Satsuma should do
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans  3 to 5 inclusive;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 3 from Mr Ss credit file;
Mr Ss debt situation from loan 4 onwards means any information recorded about these  loans  
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  give 
Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to partially uphold Mr Ss complaint,  and to direct Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading  as Satsuma) to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Satsuma and Mr S send me any more information or comments  to look at by 
13 September 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8055518