K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank  Plc renewed his contents insurance.
background
Mr M had contents insurance with Sainsburys.  On 29 October 2018, it sent him renewal 
documents stating  the policy would renew on 18 November and confirming the new 
(increased) premium. 
On 15 November, Mr M contacted Sainsburys via the online chat facility to tell it he didnt 
want the policy to renew.  He later received a voicemail message from Sainsburys asking 
him to call it back, but he didnt return the call, and the policy  auto-renewed.
Mr M contacted Sainsburys to tell it the policy had renewed despite his instructions for the 
policy to be lapsed. Sainsburys told Mr M it would cancel the policy without charge and 
refund the premium  hed paid, but Mr M wasnt satisfied  and so he made a complaint.
Sainsburys didnt accept  it had done anything wrong. It said that when Mr M had taken  out 
the policy, he was sent policy documents which stated if we offer to renew your policy 
automatically, you give us permission to do so on the basis of the renewal premium and 
policy conditions. If you dont wish to do this, you can call us to let us know  before the 
renewal date. It explained  the policy had renewed  because the renewal documents were  
sent on 29 October and Mr M didnt  contact it until 15 November.  But the policy  was 
cancelled and the premium was refunded, and it was satisfied it had followed the correct  
process.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  and so he complained to this service. He explained  he contacted 
Sainsburys asking it to lapse the policy from 18 November and that he wanted 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by its failure to do so. Hes also complained 
about Sainsburys handling of his complaint, including  the grammatical errors contained in 
the complaint  correspondence and the time he spent on calls dealing with the issue.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied  the policy 
wording required Mr M to call Sainsburys if he wished to cancel the policy,  and as he hadnt 
called Sainsburys back after it had left a voicemail  asking him to, he was persuaded its 
decision not to cancel the policy was fair. He didnt accept the policy wording  left it open for  
Mr M to contact Sainsburys  in other ways,  and he was satisfied Sainsburys offer to cancel the 
policy and refund the premium without any cancellation charge was fair. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied  and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  He 
maintains he told Sainsburys he didnt want to renew the policy and that it received the 
instruction and proceeded to renew the policy. He doesnt accept hed been required  to call and 
feels he should be compensated  for the inconvenience he experienced as a result of the policy 
having been  renewed against his wishes. He argues the premium wasnt refunded, because he 
couldnt pay a premium for a policy he didnt agree  to. And he doesnt accept a cancellation fee 
would have been due, because there was no contract.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80555852Mr Ms noted that our investigator didnt comment about the fact Sainsburys final decision 
letter included inaccuracies, spelling  mistakes  and grammatical errors. But complaints 
handling isnt something this service  can look at, so Im afraid  I cant comment on that either.
Both the renewal letter and the policy documents state you can call us to let us know and I 
consider this makes  it sufficiently clear that a telephone call is required if the policyholder 
doesnt want the policy to renew..
I accept Mr M did tell Sainsburys before  the renewal date that he wanted to cancel the 
policy, and that it received  that message. But, Sainsburys  contacted  Mr M asking him to call 
it back, and he didnt. And while  I accept this means it mustve  received the request for the 
policy to be cancelled, I think  Mr M should reasonably have called  back when he was asked 
to and that it was unreasonable for him to have expected Sainsburys to keep  trying  to 
contact him in circumstances when  he didnt want the policy  to renew.
Our investigator commented  that, if Sainsburys hadnt renewed the policy,  Mr M couldve 
been left uninsured in circumstances where he hadnt confirmed his instructions. While I 
understand Mr M has questioned the relevance of car insurance as an example, I agree that 
if Sainsburys had cancelled the policy without first confirming Mr Ms instructions and he had 
then made  a claim, the claim wouldnt have been covered and Mr M might  have lost out 
financially.
Overall, while  Im satisfied Mr M did tell Sainsburys he didnt want  the policy  to renew, I think  
its decision to renew  it in circumstances where Mr M hadnt called it back  (in accordance 
with the clear instructions contained  within the policy documents) and it had been unable  to 
confirm his instructions  was reasonable. 
Further, Im satisfied that when Mr M later contacted  Sainsburys to complain, the policy was 
cancelled without charge and the premium was refunded. I understand the policy was 
renewed against Mr Ms wishes and therefore  he believes there wasnt  a valid contract, but 
there was no cancellation  fee and the payment  that was taken was refunded, therefore, 
whether or not the contract was valid, there was no financial loss. I consider that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Im also satisfied that Sainsburys has explained  that the policy  renewed  because Mr M 
hadnt called  it back to confirm his instructions, and that this is a reasonable explanation for 
what happened. I accept Mr M was inconvenienced,  but I think  he couldve done more  to 
make sure the policy was cancelled in accordance with his wishes and I dont think 
Sainsburys needs to compensate him for the inconvenience that followed.  I also accept that 
in allowing the policy to auto-renew and then cancelling  the policy without charge and 
refunding the premiums,  Sainsburys  was treating Mr M fairly. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN80555853Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8055585