K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that after a bond  matured Nationwide Building Society caused delays which 
meant he lost out on interest. 
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 13 February 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I 
invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Mr S responded and said he disagreed  with what Id said about the events that occurred in 
branch on 10 October 2017 and that his options  werent discussed with him. Nationwide  
didnt have any further comments to make. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr S response to my provisional decision hes said that historically  hes opted for a new 
fixed rate when his existing bond  matures. But on 10 October  2017  Nationwide invited him to 
discuss his options  with a Financial Planning Manager. But Mr S says that this appointment 
and the rearranged appointment were cancelled. Mr S confirms he met the Branch  Manager  
but says no details of his options were discussed. Mr S says that after he spoke with the 
Branch Manager  on 10 October 2017 he waited until 23 April 2017 for someone at 
Nationwide to call him and discuss his options. 
But Nationwide has provided  a different version of the events on 10 October 2017. 
Nationwide accepts that the Financial  Planning  Manager  Mr S was meant  to see wasnt 
available but claims the Branch  Manager dealt with his queries instead and ran through his 
options. 
In cases where we have  two varying versions  of events I have to base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and circumstances  of the complaint. In this case,  Mr S says no details 
were discussed with Nationwide on 10 October 2017. But Nationwide says the Branch 
Manager ran through his options.  Its always difficult in situations where parties disagree 
about what happened. In this case, theres  very little to go on as Mr S has provided clear  
recollections. But Nationwides branch  staff have also given statements about what 
happened. 
Ive thought carefully about how to proceed. Mr S says he met the Branch Manager but he 
only said that the Financial Planning Manager  wasnt available and rushed off saying  
someone would be in touch. But Nationwides provided systems evidence  to show the 
Branch Manager  accessed Mr S records  and that he answered security questions. I 
appreciate Mr S says he didnt discuss his account  with the Branch Manager  but the 
systems evidence Ive seen indicates he did. On balance, I think its more  likely than not that 
Mr S was given details of his options on 10 October  2017. 
Ref: DRN89136812I noted in my provisional decision  that Mr S visited  Nationwide in October  2017  and was 
aware his bond  had matured. I remain of the view that Nationwide could reasonably have  
expected Mr S to say if he was still waiting to get advice about his savings  in the following 
months. Mr S says he was contacted  by a new Financial Planning Manager in April 2018 
and subsequently went on to transfer his funds in June 2018.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr S but I havent been persuaded to change  my decision. I 
appreciate both sides have given different recollections of what happened but, as Ive 
explained above, on balance Im satisfied  Mr S options were discussed with him in 
October 2017. 
Nationwide offered Mr S £75 because of the service it provided and I think  thats  fair in all 
the circumstances. As I think  Nationwides  offered  a fair settlement in this case Im not telling 
it to do anything else. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £75 Nationwide  Building Society 
has already offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Copy provisional  decision dated 13 February 2019
complaint
Mr S complains that after a bond  matured Nationwide  Building Society caused delays which
meant he lost out on interest.
background
Mr S had a Nationwide bond  that matured in September 2017. Before the bond matured
Mr S was sent details of his options, one of which  was to meet with a Nationwide  Financial
Planning Manager. Once the bond matured the funds  were placed in a holding  account that
paid a very low rate of interest.
Ref: DRN89136813Mr S arranged a meeting  but when he visited the branch on 10 October 2017 the person
who he was due to see had left Nationwide.  But a Personal  Banking Manager was available
and discussed Mr S options with him instead.
In June 2018  Mr S met with another Personal Banking Manager and discussed his options.
He subsequently paid the money  from the bond into a savings account he held with
Nationwide.
Mr S complained and asked  Nationwide to backdate the interest hed missed  out on while
the funds were in the holding account. Nationwide  didnt agree itd made an error because
Mr S options  had been discussed with him in October 2017. Nationwide  says Mr S didnt
then do anything with the matured funds. Nationwide offered Mr S £75 for failing to tell him
that the Financial Planning Manager hed originally booked  to see had left the company
before he came to the meeting.
Mr S referred his complaint  to this service and an investigator looked  at what had happened.
They felt Nationwide had failed  to give Mr S enough information about his options after his
bond matured so recommended it backdate the interest he wouldve received if hed paid the
money into his savings  account earlier.  Nationwide  didnt agree.
Nationwide has since sent in a statement  from the branch  Mr S visited for his appointment
and records of its contact  with him since the bond matured. As Nationwide  didnt agree with
the investigators recommendations the case has been  passed to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that there was an issue when Mr S visited  the branch  for his appointment on
10 October 2017 and I agree that Nationwide shouldve told him the person  hed arranged to
see wouldnt  be available. But Nationwides provided  a statement from the branch about
what happened when  Mr S visited. Nationwides explained that whilst the Financial  Planning
Manager Mr S had booked to see wasnt there a Personal Banking Manager  reviewed his
options with him instead.
Ive seen Nationwides contact records and I can see that the Personal Banking Manager
accessed Mr S information  on 10 October  2017.  So I think  its more likely than not that they
did discuss  Mr S options  with him when  he visited the branch.  Nationwide says it left the
decision on how to proceed with Mr S after the meeting, having been through  his options.
From what Ive seen Im satisfied that when  Mr S visited Nationwide in October 2017 he was
aware his bond had matured  and had been given  options about what  he could do next. From
that point  I think it was up to Mr S to decide  what he wanted and let Nationwide  know.
I also have to take into account the timescales involved here. Mr S visited the branch in
October 2017. I think Nationwide would reasonably have expected Mr S to have made
contact again if he still wanted to see a Financial  Planning Manager and discuss how to
proceed further. Mr S didnt come back to Nationwide  about the funds until June 2018 at
which point he was able to discuss his options again.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but whilst  I can see the original person  he wanted to talk to
wasnt available when he visited the branch, Im satisfied he was able to discuss his options
with someone else. The branch statement says Mr S options for the funds were  discussed
and I think it was reasonable for Nationwide to await his instructions. Mr S didnt go back  to
Nationwide until June 2018 when he asked it to transfer the money  into a savings account.
Ref: DRN89136814Nationwide offered Mr S £75 because it didnt tell him the Financial Planning Manager
wasnt available before he visited in October 2017 and I think thats fair in all the
circumstances.
As Nationwides offered  fair compensation in this case Im not telling it to increase the offer
or take any further action to resolve this complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint beyond the £75
Nationwide Building Society has already offered.
Mr S and Nationwide Building Society have until 27 February  2019 to send me anything
further theyd like me to consider before I make  a final decision.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8913681