K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say that Yorkshire Building  Society (trading at the time as Chelsea Building Society)  
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in March  2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Mrs K or Yorkshire sent me anything  further  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions     
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Yorkshire Building Society (trading  at the time as Chelsea Building Society) mis-
sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ref: DRN80859492Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy. They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Yorkshire  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Due to the time thats passed since the sale took place, theres little to no documentary  evidence from 
the sale for me to consider. This raises a number  of issues  including; 
when was the policy  sold? and;
who was covered  by the policy.  
Mr and Mrs K have said that they think the policy  was sold during  a phone conversation in 1998.  
Yorkshire isnt sure how or when the policy was sold. Ive noted that they referred to    a start date of 
January 1998 in their final response letter, then a 2004 start date but have  since clarified  that this was 
an error. So theres no firm evidence from the business to show when  the policy was sold.  
On balance Ive considered  that, as theres nothing  to dispute what Mr and Mrs K have said about  a 
1998 start date, that its the most likely  start date. 
The next consideration is who was covered  by the policy?  Due to the lack of evidence, no policy  
information that would clearly show who was the insured  party is available.  So Ive then thought about  
what Mr and Mrs K have told us about their circumstances when they think  the policy was sold. Mrs K 
has said that she was not working.  
I think  on balance, that its more likely that Mr K was covered by the policy - not Mrs K or not jointly. I 
say this because I think its unlikely that Yorkshire  would have sold Mrs K a policy if she wasnt 
working and Mr K was the main income provider  for the household.  So when coming  to my provisional  
decision Ive considered that Mr K was the insured person. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint because:
Unfortunately there  arent  any records available from the sale to show what was 
discussed. Understandably, Mr and Mrs K might not recall it clearly after so long.     There 
are also no documents  available to me from the time of the sale,  which is not at all 
surprising considering  the sale took place so long ago. So its difficult to know how the 
policy was positioned with Mr and Mrs K. In order for me to uphold this Id have to think 
that Mr and Mrs Ks account was more likely  than that of Yorkshires. 
But as these events happened so long ago and as theres no documentary evidence to 
support either partys position, I have  to conclude  that Mr and Mrs Ks account is only as 
likely not more  likely. So on balance  I cannot safely conclude that the policy wasnt 
presented as optional or that they werent  given a choice to take PPI.
Ive considered that Yorkshire recommended the PPI to Mr K, and it seems  to have been 
right for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  I note that 
previously our adjudicator upheld  this complaint because of Mrs Ks circumstances, but 
as Ive explained  above, Ive not considered  that she was covered by this policy.
Ref: DRN80859493Mr K has told us about some medical  conditions  he had, but these all seem to have been 
diagnosed after the sale.  So based  on everything Ive seen,  I think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable  and the policy  was right for    Mr  K.
As I dont  know what was discussed at the time of sale Ive assumed that Yorkshire  
couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if    it had, I think Mr 
and Mrs K would still have  bought it. I say this because based on the nearest relevant  
policy document it seems that this policy could have paid out for longer than Mr Ks 
existing means. Given the potential  consequences if Mr and Mrs K were unable to keep 
up with their mortgage  repayments, I think that Mr and Mrs K had need for the PPI policy 
and could  have found it useful if Mr K was unwell  and unable to work  or if he was made  
unemployed.
Its possible  Yorkshire didnt  point  out the main  things the policy didnt cover. But based 
on what  Mr K has told us about his circumstances he doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ks comments, but these points dont currently change  my provisional  
decision. If Mr and Mrs Ks appointed representative have reason to think that my assumption that it 
was Mr K who was covered by the policy  is not correct,  theyve  got the opportunity to seek  further 
evidence from Mr and Mrs K and the underwriter  of this PPI policy who may be able to assist  them in 
clarifying who was covered. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
 
If either Mr and Mrs K or Yorkshire Building Society  have anything further to add, they should do so 
by 28 April 2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8085949