K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) withdrew  their mortgage 
offer after theyd exchanged contracts with their vendor without explaining why. They  want 
compensation for the costs  actual and potential  theyve incurred for the abortive 
purchase.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 11 January 2019, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 25 January 2019  to reply, and Ive heard from both. 
RBS accepted my provisional decision without further comment.  Mr and Mrs As solicitors 
also broadly accepted the provisional decision,  and in doing so, confirmed the date 
Mr and Mrs A paid the money  as 22 February 2017.  But they also included  copies of fee 
notes for their legal  costs  and those of a barrister they consulted  for advice. They  say, given 
Mr and Mrs As limited  language skills and the nature of the dispute, RBS should  pay the 
fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont depart from my 
provisional conclusions.
As a starting position, people are free to use a solicitor to complain to us, but we usually take 
the view that they dont  need to. If someone does instruct a solicitor to complain  on their 
behalf, unless  the particular circumstances  convince us that it was necessary,  then we wont  
generally award them the costs of doing so, even if, as here, were upholding the underlying  
complaint. 
Thats because we take the view that, in most cases, our case  handlers have the necessary 
technical knowledge to understand what a complaint is about.  Ive not seen anything to 
persuade me this was complaint that needed legal representation to bring  to us. I take the 
point that English isnt Mr and Mrs As first language  (albeit theyve lived here about fifteen 
years) but even with that in mind, this wasnt a particularly complex issue.
The question of whether the Mortgage  Credit  Directive gave RBS the right to withdraw  the 
mortgage offer is one that I consider a Citizens Advice Bureau could answer free of charge. 
And our case handlers could equally give guidance, from an impartial standpoint, on whether 
RBS had to disclose the reasons why.  But its important to remember  that the case doesnt 
turn on either of those things in any event.
I have upheld this complaint solely  because  of the delay in RBS telling Mr and Mrs A of its 
decision. That came  to light during our investigation, and wouldnt have generated any need 
for specialist  legal advice of the type Mr and Mrs A chose to seek.
Ref: DRN80978762my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out below, is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and final 
settlement, I order The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs A £38,000; and
pay Mr and Mrs A interest on £38,000 at 8% simple per annum* from 22 February 2017 until 
the eventual date of settlement.
*If RBS thinks it should deduct basic rate tax from the interest  element  of the award,  it was do so 
provided it supplies Mr and Mrs A with the relevant  tax certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80978763CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  withdrew their mortgage offer after 
theyd exchanged contracts with their vendor without explaining why. They want  compensation for the 
costs  actual  and potential  theyve incurred for the abortive purchase.
background
RBS issued  a mortgage offer to Mr A and Mrs K in February  2017.  They exchanged contracts with 
their vendor, but RBS subsequently withdrew  the mortgage  offer. The property purchase fell through 
and Mr and Mrs A forfeited  their deposit of around £38,000. The banks final response didnt give a 
reason for withdrawing  the offer.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint. He said RBS was allowed  to withdraw  
the offer and wasnt obliged to tell Mr and Mrs A the reason. RBS had told us the reason in 
confidence, and he was satisfied the decision wasnt unfair. But he asked RBS to pay Mr and Mrs A 
£300 compensation for a delay in informing their conveyancing solicitors that the offer had been 
withdrawn.
Mr and Mrs A, represented  here by solicitors, want the complaint reviewed by an ombudsman.  
Theyre also very unhappy at the lack of transparency from RBS (and, it seems, from this service) 
regarding the reason for withdrawing the offer.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
New rules came  into force in March  2016 that made it much harder for a lender to withdraw a 
mortgage offer once  its been issued. However,  they can still do so in certain  circumstances.
The first question for me to consider here is whether RBS was justified in withdrawing the mortgage 
offer. Mr and Mrs A are understandably unhappy and frustrated  at not being  told the reason  for the 
withdrawal. The bank has told us the reasons for its decision, but in confidence.
Our rules permit  this; either party to a complaint can submit evidence it would prefer the other side not 
to see. Its then for me to decide whether  its fair to rely on evidence that only one party  has seen. Our 
rules give me that discretion, and Im not required to justify  to either  side in the dispute how that 
discretion has been exercised. Im impartial  from the parties  to the complaint and dont take their 
instructions on how I deal with a complaint.
The information (and its source)  is sensitive  and on balance I dont  believe it should  be disclosed.  But 
its also clearly material to the issue of whether RBS has treated Mr and Mrs A fairly.  So Im 
persuaded I should take it into account when  deciding the outcome of the complaint.
Thats what Ive done, and the conclusion Ive reached is that RBS didnt act unreasonably  when it 
withdrew the offer. As I said earlier, it could do that the terms and conditions attaching to the 
mortgage offer itself said as much  and Im satisfied RBS didnt act unfairly when it exercised  its 
judgement in the way it did. If that was all I had to take into account, my consideration of the 
complaint would have ended there.  But theres more.
RBS notified Mr and Mrs As solicitor the offer had been withdrawn on 7 March 2017; theyd 
exchanged contracts four days earlier on 3 March 2017. But RBSs  records show the decision  to 
withdraw the offer had been made on 22 February 2017, and the bank admits the delay in telling the 
solicitor was down to a breakdown in communication.  That being  so, even though RBS made a fair 
Ref: DRN80978764decision, it didnt communicate it in a timely fashion. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs A 
wouldnt have exchanged contracts  and forfeited the 10% deposit.
For that reason, I think  its fair and reasonable  to find that RBS must  reimburse Mr and Mrs A the 
money they lost, plus interest.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint. In full and final settlement, I intend ordering The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to:
pay Mr and Mrs A £38,000; and
pay Mr and Mrs A interest on £38,000 at 8% simple per annum*  from the date they paid the £38,000** 
until the eventual date of settlement.
*If RBS thinks  it should  deduct basic rate tax from the interest element of the award, it was do so provided it 
supplies Mr and Mrs A with the relevant tax certificate.
**Id ask Mr and Mrs As solicitor, as part of their response to this provisional  decision, to provide 
documented evidence of the date Mr and Mrs A paid the £38,000  from their own resources.
. 
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 25 January 2019, or sooner  if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party need 
repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8097876