K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that it took NewDay Ltd (NewDay)  too long to process his claim under  
section 75 Consumer Credit Act (section 75).
background
Mr L bought a mobile phone in November 2017.  He paid for it with a credit card provided  by 
NewDay. But the phone took to long to arrive so he cancelled the order.  But the order 
arrived regardless and Mr L noticed  the seal was broken.  He contacted  the merchant and 
they agreed to a refund but they wanted  Mr L to cover the postage cost to return  the phone 
to Hong Kong. 
Mr L didnt want to pay these charges and, getting  nowhere with the merchant, he contacted 
NewDay in January 2018. He said he wanted to raise a claim under section 75 as he 
believed NewDay, as the provider of credit, were  jointly responsible  for the issue.
NewDay didnt think a section 75 claim was necessary. They processed a successful 
chargeback request with the merchant  and Mr Ls money was returned to him. But when the 
merchant didnt receive the phone back the chargeback  was reversed and the money taken 
back out of Mr Ls account. Mr L explained  that he did ask NewDay to cover the postage  but 
they didnt respond.
NewDay initially insisted Mr L exhaust his claim with the merchant before raising  a section 
75 claim with them  but eventually they conceded and approved his claim, returning his 
money in November 2018. 
Mr L said it took far too long for NewDay  to approve  his claim and he wanted compensation 
from them.
But NewDay  paid Mr L £50 as they realised theyd  exceeded  the eight week timescale  in 
which they were required  to respond to his complaint. But they didnt accept that their 
process was wrong. They said they would always endeavour to raise  a chargeback first and 
they thought theyd followed  the correct process.
But Mr L was still disappointed. So he referred his complaint  to this service  and our 
adjudicator provided  her view. She thought  NewDay had taken too long. She noted  that Mr L 
had first raised his section  75 claim in January but wasnt reimbursed until November 2018. 
Hed had to submit information  again  to NewDay in late February when it was clear  NewDay  
hadnt understood the phone hadnt  been returned or provided  any advice on the postage 
concerns. The adjudicator  thought  NewDay had all the information they required in January 
and should therefore have  processed  the claim. So she suggested  that NewDay pay Mr L a 
small amount of compensation. She thought £50 was reasonable in the circumstances.
But NewDay  disagreed.  They  said they were right to raise a chargeback first but when the 
merchant had later rejected the chargeback, as the phone hadnt been  returned, they said 
Mr L delayed the process  as he wouldnt  give answers to security  questions during a call 
back they made to him in June. They said they didnt hear from Mr L again until September 
when they proceeded to approve his section 75 complaint. So they asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN84252352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback scheme or a 
section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  
circumstances, a finance provider can be responsible for a breach of contract or a 
misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So section 75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
Here Mr L had a right to reject his phone and get his money back  if he did so within the 14 
day cooling  off period - which he did. And NewDay rightly approved his section 75 claim,  
albeit not for about a year.
I dont think its reasonable for Mr L to have been kept waiting for so long. NewDay may 
have wanted to raise  a chargeback first but Mr L had asked them to approve a claim under 
section 75. And the issue didnt have to be raised with the merchant first as NewDay  had 
joint responsibility for it. Hed provided  all the information NewDay  needed to approve a 
section 75 claim when  he wrote to them in January. Hed included photographs  of the 
damage to the seal, the invoice and the email communications hed had with the merchant. 
And it was clear that the merchant  had refused any liability for postage charges. The 
complaint should  have  been resolved on around  that time but wasnt. So I think NewDay  
should compensate  Mr L for the delay  he experienced and, in the circumstances, I agree 
with the adjudicator that £50 would  be reasonable.
Ref: DRN84252353my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and ask NewDay  Ltd to pay Mr L 
compensation of £50 for the inconvenience  hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425235