K820x#14complaint
Ms M, who is represented by Mr T, complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected her 
claim under Section  75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect  of a door. 
background
Ms M and Mr T bought a front door from a company I will call E which  was funded  in part 
using Ms Ms Nationwide credit card. They say it wasnt as described, there were numerous 
faults and it was poorly fitted. In particular  Mr T says E outsourced  the manufacture of the 
door to another company after he had been told it would be made  by E.
Mr T complained to E and to Nationwide. E offered to replace the door,  and to make any 
repairs necessary and deal with any installation  issues. Mr T refused to accept this offer as 
he considered  the door had been  mis-sold.
Ms M brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one our investigators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. She took that view after noting E had agreed to re-
survey the door with a view to checking  the sizes, and if necessary providing  a like for like 
replacement. She said that as E had confirmed  it was willing to make any repairs necessary 
and deal with any associated installation issues. It also offered to include the correct glass 
layout on the door.  
She noted that E had confirmed it would provide a separate door knocker and spyhole to fit 
to the new door along with a safety chain that hadn't been fitted. He said this is what  we'd 
expect a business to do in a case such as this. It was reasonable for E to be allowed  to 
address the problems. 
She also noted Mr Ts concern that the door hadnt  been manufactured  by E, but he didnt 
think there was enough  information to show that E had agreed  it wouldnt outsource the 
manufacture to another supplier.
The investigator referred to manual amendments made to the purchase agreement: 
changing the stippolyte, coloured lead A1:AZTEC C/56 for the Mayflower  double  glazed unit 
and the security chain  to be included. She was satisfied that these were the only 
amendments to the door that were discussed  prior to the purchase of the door.
This meant she didnt  consider there was enough evidence  to show that E had agreed  to 
provide no white  in colour border strip edging,  matching door furniture and lock. She 
acknowledged she couldnt say what had been discussed, but she referred  to an email  from 
Mr T to E dated 25 September 2017  which stated "Can  you check if the black door bar ends 
could be colour  matched?"  and "You  were  to check if you could  make  a door without the 
white side borders on the front of the door or for it to be colour  matched ". She thought this 
indicated these questions  were raised after the door had been installed and weren't agreed 
as part of the initial decision to purchase the door. She concluded that Es offer to replace 
the door and effect repairs were fair and reasonable.
Mr T didnt  agree and sent in a comprehensive  reply setting out in great detail  the 
background to the purchase  and installation of the door. This included details of the visit by a 
representative of E, the selection  of the door, the installation and the events after that. The 
investigator remained of the opinion that the best solution would be for E to re-survey  the 
door and supply a replacement.  Mr T didnt agree.
Ref: DRN87498442my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has submitted extensive  material and arguments and I wish to reassure him I have 
read these  and given them due consideration. I trust he will understand that I will only 
address those matters  I consider pertinent to my decision. However, I appreciate the trouble 
he has taken. 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
I am satisfied that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain hasnt been broken and so the 
remaining matter is to decide if there has been  either misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract and if so what redress is appropriate. 
It has been accepted by E, Nationwide and the investigator that there were problems with 
the door and its fitting. I dont believe it was quite  as Ms M and Mr T were expecting and they 
feel E has let them  down. That said, there  are some matters which  werent set out in the 
sales document which Mr T has said were agreed  verbally and it is difficult for me to agree 
these without persuasive evidence.
Nonetheless as it has been agreed that the door isnt up to standard, it seems only 
reasonable that E take away the old and one a fit a new one as per the agreed sales  invoice. 
I appreciate Mr T is greatly  exercised  that the door wasnt manufactured by E. I have looked 
at what he signed  and this makes  no reference to the place of manufacture. Nor does it say 
that E reserves the right to outsource manufacture of its goods  to a third party.  I can see why 
Mr T may well feel aggrieved when E told him after the event that it outsourced  some of its 
doors. I have  read Es brochure  and I can see why Mr T says he expected the door would be 
made by E at one of its factories. 
I have asked E if it will re-survey the door, provide a like for like replacement,  make any 
necessary repairs and associated installation issues and include the correct glass layout as 
well as fit  a separate  knocker and spy hole.  It has agreed and says that it outsources  all its 
domestic doors, but they come with a full E guarantee.
It is not unusual  for suppliers to outsource the manufacture of products which  they then 
brand as their own. I believe  the key is that the door is of suitable quality and carries a full E 
warranty. I dont consider the place of manufacture is as important as Mr T has argued. 
Ref: DRN87498443While I can see that he feels very strongly that he and Ms T have  been  misled I think Es 
offer is a reasonable response to the complaint  and this offer is open to Ms M to accept or 
reject as she wishes. If she does accept this decision  I would expect E to work with Ms M 
and Mr T to have the door replaced with an acceptable one as per the original agreement  
without delay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I leave it to Ms M to decide  if she 
wishes to accept Es offer. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Ms M to accept or reject  my decision before 19 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8749844