K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains that MYJAR Limited (Myjar)  was irresponsible to lend her money.
background
Myjar provided five loans to Ms M. Heres a loan table showing further details:
Loan Date Issued Date Closed Loan  Amount Instalments
1 09/11/2017 24/01/2018 £325.00 3
2 12/03/2018 06/04/2018 £300.00 3
3 22/06/2018 16/08/2018 £450.00 6
4 04/09/2018 19/11/2018 £300.00 3
5 09/01/2019 23/02/2019 £1,100.00 12
Ms M said that she found herself in a payday  loan cycle  of spiralling debt which  she was 
unable to get out of. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Ms Ms complaint. She felt she hadnt seen enough to say it 
was unfair  for Myjar to have provided loans 1 - 4 to Ms M, but she thought Myjar shouldnt 
have given her loan 5. Our adjudicator set out the steps she said Myjar should do to put 
things right.  
Myjar disagreed and mainly said our adjudicators  view lacked reasoning and detail. So the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms M could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN86416832the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Myjar was required to establish whether Ms M could  sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments,  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint.
Myjar has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms M. It asked her for details of 
her income and normal expenditure. And Myjar carried out checks  on Ms Ms credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Myjar to give Ms M loans 1 - 4 on the 
basis of the information she gave about  her income  and outgoings. At this stage in the 
lending relationship, broadly speaking I think the checks were  enough  for Myjar to agree to 
lend. And as Ms M hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in 
relation to the first four loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Ms M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ms case, like the adjudicator,  I think that this point 
was reached by loan 5. I say this because:
at this point Myjar  ought to have realised Ms M was not managing  to repay  her loans 
sustainably. This was Ms Ms fifth loan in around  14 months with only limited gaps in 
between loans
so when she asked  for loan 5, I think Myjar ought to have known that Ms M wasnt 
likely borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing 
need
Ref: DRN86416833Ms M wasnt  making  any inroads into the amount she owed Myjar  although  the 
amounts borrowed  had varied,  loan 5 was more  than three  times as much as shed  
taken out on loan 1. I think Myjar ought to have realised it was likely that Ms M was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in 
her finances each time and that Ms Ms indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
I think that Ms M lost out when Myjar provided loan 5 because:
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Ms Ms indebtedness  by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time  
and she paid a lot of interest to service this debt
the length of time over which Ms M borrowed was likely  to have negative implications 
on Ms Ms ability  to access mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loan 5.
putting things right  what Myjar needs to do 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms M towards interest, fees 
and charges on loan 5, not including anything already  refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms M which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Ms M the amounts calculated in A and B.
D) The overall pattern  of Ms Ms borrowing by loan 5 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so Myjar should remove  this loan entirely from 
Ms Ms credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Ms Ms complaint  about  loan 5. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Ms M as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8641683