K820x#14complaint
H, a limited company,  complains about an enquiry and then a subsequent claim it made  on 
its Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) business protection insurance policy.
Mr S, on behalf of H, wants RSA to either  pay the full amount  H has claimed for or to be 
compensated for any increases in its policy premium at renewal, which result from the claim 
made.
background
H sells and repairs bicycles. One of its customers bicycles was accidentally damaged which  
in Hs care. 
Mr S asked his broker whether the policy would respond if he made  a claim for the cost of 
repair. The broker confirmed the policy  would  cover accidental damage  and that any sums 
paid out would be based on the replacement of the goods to H. He also said H would also 
lose its no claims discount if it claimed, that its policy premium  would  increase  and that an 
excess would be applicable  to the claim. In addition, he said he couldnt  guarantee RSA 
would pay the claim.
Mr S then put in Hs claim. The cost claimed  was for the replacement of the bicycle. 
Although only the frame  of the bicycle was damaged, Mr S explained  the frame  wasnt  
available in the same  colour as the customers bike. Because of this an entirely new bicycle 
needed to be sourced  so that the frame could be replaced in a matching colour.
RSA considered Hs claim and said they werent prepared to pay for the cost of the new 
bicycle. They said the policy only provided  cover on an indemnity basis  which  meant that 
they would  only pay the cost of repair. In this case, that meant the replacement  frame, 
irrespective of the colour. 
Mr S was unhappy with this. He felt that RSA misled him into thinking his claim would be 
covered in its entirety and that he acted  on the basis of that information by buying an entirely 
new bicycle to replace the broken  frame.  Hes unhappy that H has paid out the cost of the 
bicycle and wants RSA to pay this or alternatively compensate him for the increase in future 
policy premiums for making an unsuccessful  claim.  Hes also made  some  submissions  about  
RSA bearing the cost of the excess hes had to pay on his current  claim.
RSA has now paid H the cost of the frame rather than the replacement bicycle.  They  also 
offered to pay H £50 for the delay in replying to its complaint.
Our investigator considered Mr Hs claim and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr S doesnt  
agree so the matter has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Hs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. They say:
Ref: DRN866695221 in respect of Property Damage Insurance, the amount of loss or at its option reinstate, 
repair or replace  such Property
In this case, the repair cost of the bicycle amounted  to replacement of the damaged frame. 
Mr S and his broker strongly  feel that this term should be interpreted to cover  the 
replacement of the bicycle where the same colour  item isnt available  to repair  it with, but I 
dont agree. Had it extended  to cover this scenario, I wouldve expected to see additional 
provision for this within the policy terms. And in the absence of anything that suggests repair 
extends to matching the items damaged, Im not persuaded that RSA need to do anything 
more. 
Mr S says RSA misled him and that he wouldnt  have claimed on the policy if he knew he 
would only be paid for the cost of the frame. But I havent seen anything  to suggest that RSA 
misled Mr S. Mr S made the claim through his broker.  The communications hes referring to 
about the claim were  between him and them. Theres nothing in those communications  
which in my view amount to misleading  information, either in their own right or on behalf of 
RSA, that wouldve made  Mr S think the cost of the bicycle would be covered. Rather it 
made clear that it couldnt guarantee the claim would  be paid. 
RSA has now paid Hs claim. I dont know if it compensated H for the £50 it offered in 
compensation in respect of respect of the delay in delay with its complaint when paying the 
claim. If not and Mr S wishes to accept this, he should  contact  RSA directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Hs complaint against Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8666952