K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC is about investments she was advised to 
make in 2003 and 2009.
background
Mrs R met with Barclays several times in 2003 to discuss her finances.  In May 2003  she 
accepted Barclays  advice to transfer her existing portfolio  of shares and unit trusts to 
Barclays discretionary management  service.  At further meetings between June and 
September 2003, Barclays advised  Mrs R to invest £70,000 across three funds. 
Mrs R met a Barclays  adviser in February  2009 as she was unhappy with the effect of 
inflation on her savings. Barclays recommended she invest £10,000 in a capital guarantee 
fund.
Mrs R complains that Barclays  gave her unsuitable advice.  She says she was advised to 
invest too much of her money and take too great a risk. 
In response to Mrs Rs complaint, Barclays said the advice she was given in May 2003 and 
February 2009 was suitable. They said the funds they recommended in August 2003 were  
suitable, but theyd advised Mrs R to invest too much in them. 
Barclays worked out what would have happened  if Mrs R had invested £40,000 in 
August 2003,  rather than £70,000. They said Mrs R hadnt lost out as a result  of their advice 
and so she wasnt due any compensation. Barclays offered Mrs R £200 for the trouble and 
upset caused  and for the delay in answering  her complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Rs complaint. He thought Barclays  gave Mrs R unsuitable 
advice in May 2003 when she transferred her existing portfolio  to a discretionary 
management service. He agreed  with Barclays that theyd advised  Mrs R to invest too much 
in August 2003 but disagreed with how Barclays had offered to put things  right. 
Our investigator agreed that the advice Barclays gave in February  2009  was suitable.
Barclays disagreed  with our investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in September 2020.
I said that before making their recommendations, Barclays should have considered Mrs Rs 
financial situation, her knowledge and experience of investing, and her investment 
objectives. That would include taking  account of her attitude to risk, her purpose  in investing, 
and how long she wanted to invest his money for. 
May 2003
The paperwork from the time showed that Mrs R was working  part-time, planning to retire 
soon and had no dependants.
Ref: DRN81141092Mrs R held just under £200,000 in various investments and savings. Her income came from 
her employment, her late husbands pension and state benefits.  Mrs R had a disposable 
income of around  £400 a month.  
Mrs R had about £104,000 invested in shares  and unit trusts. She told the adviser  her 
priority was to simplify  the investments as she found the paperwork and management of 
them overwhelming. She wasnt looking  to invest any new money until shed simplified her 
existing holdings. 
Taking account of Mrs Rs circumstances, the adviser recommended that Mrs R transfer her 
portfolio into Barclays  discretionary management service. I thought that met Mrs Rs 
objective of bringing her existing holdings together and being easier to manage. But I also 
looked closely at whether  the advisers  recommendation  matched Mrs Rs attitude  to risk. 
Our investigator thought Barclays had recommended Mrs R continue to take a high level of 
risk. He didnt think that was suitable given her circumstances at the time. Mrs R was 
planning to retire within a year or so and was looking to her investments to supplement  her 
pension. It would have  been very difficult for her to recoup any significant losses. 
The adviser discussed the level of risk Mrs R had taken with her existing investments. 
According to the questionnaire completed  at the time, £60,000 were adventurous and 
£44,000 were speculative  the two highest  risk ratings. That meant Mrs Rs funds were 
exposed to higher  levels  of potential loss, including total loss, in return for the potential of 
higher to very high returns.  The remainder  of Mrs Rs savings, about £95,000, were held in 
cash in no risk accounts.  
Mrs R told the adviser she was happy  to maintain her investments at the same level of risk. 
Her priority  was to bring her investments together in one place. She said she was prepared 
to invest £104,000 in adventurous investments. The advisers report said that as an 
adventurous investor, Mrs R wanted  to achieve potentially  higher total returns  by putting  a 
greater part of her money  in stock market investments. She said Mr R was aware that her 
money could be subject to far greater fluctuations than those of the balanced investor  and 
that the potential for loss was greater
I also looked at the agreement  forms Mrs R completed on 5 June 2003. Here, Mrs Rs 
investment objective  was identified as capital growth with safety rather than another  option 
of high level of capital growth. And in the section on attitude to risk, balanced had been 
selected rather than adventurous.  
So the paperwork from the time said different things  about Mrs Rs attitude to risk and it 
wasnt entirely clear what the adviser  recommended to her. It seemed Mrs Rs existing 
holdings carried a high level of risk and she told the adviser she was prepared  to maintain 
that as she simplified  her investments.  
I said I would have  expected the adviser  to explain  the implications  of that to Mrs R and have 
a more detailed  discussion about  her attitude to risk. And given her circumstances at the 
time  including her disposable income and planned  retirement  - I thought Mrs R would have 
wanted her money  to be exposed to less risk than it was through  her existing investments.  
I couldnt be sure whether  a more detailed discussion  took place and what  the adviser said 
to Mrs R about her attitude to risk. But I looked closely at, and gave  most  weight to, what 
investments Mrs R made as a result of the advice she received. 
Ref: DRN81141093When she completed the agreement forms, Mrs R said she wanted to retain  some  of her 
existing shareholdings outside  the portfolio transferring to Barclays.  That left holdings valued  
at about £75,000 to be transferred to the discretionary  managed service with Barclays.  That 
was made  up of about £35,000 of shares and £39,000 of cash  from unit trust investments 
that had been encashed. 
Mrs R had selected a capital growth with safety managed  portfolio.  According to the 
investment guidelines provided by Barclays that would  have had a target  holding  of about  
50% in UK equities. 
 
Barclays said Mrs Rs investments were gradually  switched to meet  the objectives of the 
capital growth with safety portfolio. As less than 50% of the assets that Mrs R transferred 
were equities and more than 50% was cash,  her portfolio should have been brought quickly 
into line with the target  holdings.  As Id noted, Mrs R was retaining some  shareholdings 
outside of the portfolio and significant  cash savings elsewhere.
Overall, I thought the investment Mrs R made was suitable for her. By transferring her 
existing shareholdings and the value of unit trusts encashed into a managed portfolio, she 
was achieving her objective of making  her investments easier to manage. I thought the 
capital growth with safety portfolio  was a suitable way of achieving this. It would be 
managed as balanced  risk, which was suitable for Mrs R given  her circumstances at the 
time.
August 2003
Mrs R met Barclays again between June and September  2003 to discuss  how to invest  her 
remaining savings of about £95,000.  She wanted  to achieve a better rate of return than the 
cash accounts her savings were held in. There had been no significant changes in Mrs Rs 
circumstances since she met the adviser  in May 2003.  
The adviser recommended that Mrs R invest £70,000  across three separate  bonds - £50,000 
in bonds assessed as cautious  and £20,000 in balanced risk bonds. She said Mrs R 
should retain £25,000 in cash  deposits for short term requirements and emergencies.  
Barclays accepted  that Mrs R was advised to invest too much in the bonds. Mrs R had told 
the adviser in May 2003 that she was planning  to loan £10,000 to a family  member and 
spend £10,000 on home improvements.  That would have left Mrs R with a cash reserve  of 
around £5,000.  
Barclays said Mrs R should instead have been  advised to invest £30,000 in the bonds  they 
recommended. That would have left her with a cash reserve  of £45,000, which  was around  
25% of her overall investable capital.
I agreed that Mrs R was advised to invest too much. Barclays advice exposed too high a 
proportion of her funds to risk and left her with insufficient cash  reserves.  Taking account of 
her circumstances at the time, I thought it was reasonable for Barclays to say they should 
have advised  Mrs R to invest  £30,000  in cautious and balanced bonds. That would  have left 
Mrs R with £40,000 in cash  deposits. 
Ref: DRN81141094Barclays worked out the position Mrs R would have been in if her money had been invested 
in that way. They found that Mrs R hadnt lost out financially from the unsuitable advice  she 
was given. So, based on what Id seen, I didnt  think Barclays needed to do anything further.    
February 2009
By 2009 Mrs R no longer  held the managed portfolio with Barclays. She was still employed 
and planning  to retire a few years later. Mrs Rs objective was to invest  a portion of her 
savings in a way that protected the capital but offered growth  at least  in line with inflation.  
Barclays recommended  that Mrs R invest £10,000 of her savings into a with-profits fund 
which would guarantee the capital adjusted for inflation.
I thought the investment met Mrs Rs objective  of protecting  her capital against inflation and 
was affordable for her. It was a low risk investment, which was in line with Mrs Rs attitude  to 
risk as discussed with the adviser.  
I thought Barclays  advice was suitable  and I wasnt planning to uphold  this part of Mrs Rs 
complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Mrs R and Barclays have said they have nothing further to add in response to my 
provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has offered any further  comments,  I can see no reason to change  my 
findings. So, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and repeated above, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 November  2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8114109