K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr J says National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
NatWest has provide a copy of the credit card application completed  at the time. I can see 
for PPI there is a yes and no option of which both require a separate signature from the 
actual credit. Mr J has signed yes to take PPI which I think indicates  that he agreed to and 
wanted the cover. So having  taken everything  in to consideration, I think NatWest made it 
clear that Mr J didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he cant  remember this now many  years later. 
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr J so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr J got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr J has said he didnt need  PPI as he would have received  six months full followed by six 
months half sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work. But this policy would cover 
10% of the outstanding balance of his account  for up to 12 months if he was too sick to work 
or he lost his job. And this would be in addition  to, and potentially  for longer than, any sick 
pay he would receive at a full rate. So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J. But NatWest  
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr J because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr J about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr J, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN84321232Ive thought about everything Mr J has said but these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr J.
But National  Westminster Bank Plc does  have to pay back  to Mr J any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8432123