K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complained that she was unhappy  with the amount of compensation offered by 
Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) to settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs D took out a PPI policy at the same time she opened a store  card in July 1989.  In 2018 
Allianz agreed to settle her complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered her some 
compensation. But Mrs D thought she had paid more for the PPI than Allianz  had calculated  
and brought her complaint  to this service.
Allianz didnt have full records for Mrs Ds account  so had made  some  assumptions about 
what Mrs D may have  paid whilst  the PPI was active on the account.
Our adjudicator said what Allianz had offered wasnt fair and recommended Allianz  make  an 
average offer of compensation. Allianz didnt  respond to that recommendation so the case 
was referred to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision in October  2018, a copy  of which is attached  and forms part 
of this final decision. In that decision I set out how I thought Allianz should work out what 
Mrs D may have  paid for the PPI whilst active on the account.
Mrs D has responded to my provisional  decision saying she accepts what I have said.
Allianz did not directly  respond to the provisional decision but it seems it has also accepted 
it, as Allianz has eventually provided a calculation along the basis  of what I suggested in that 
decision. Allianz has provided  no additional comments or information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision sets out the full details  of this complaint and why I had decided  on 
the approach  I set out that Allianz should follow to work out the compensation due to Mrs D.
Mrs D said she was happy  to accept the approach I put forward  to calculate  the 
compensation. 
Allianz has eventually  provided a calculation which is in line with the approach I put forward.  
On the basis Allianz has made no comment about the approach,  not provided any alternative 
suggestions or additional  information, I assume  it accepted in this particular case this 
approach is fair. 
I have looked  at the calculation provided by Allianz. This reflects  the costs  of the PPI 
charged on a balance of £250 with regular repayment of the balance, as I had suggested. In 
total the costs  of the PPI and any interest  this caused comes to £222.30.
Ref: DRN81351762Compensatory interest  for the times Mrs D was out of pocket has also been included  and 
comes to £434.75. Allianz is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deducted basis  rate 
tax off this interest  and after this is removed it leaves £347.80 to be paid to Mrs D. 
So in total the amount due to Mrs D would be £570.10 after tax and I think  this is fair 
compensation.
Allianz had previously sent Mrs D a cheque for the amount of compensation it had offered. It 
has now said as this wasnt cashed, it has cancelled that cheque.  So nothing for any earlier 
payment is to be deducted  from the new offer of compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, a copy of which is attached  
and forms part of this final decision, I think that the amount of £570.10 Allianz Insurance  Plc 
has now calculated is fair compensation  to settle  this complaint of Mrs D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81351763Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs Ds complaint is concerning the amount  of compensation  Allianz  Insurance  Plc (Allianz)  offered to 
settle her complaint about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs D opened a store  charge card account in July 1989 and at the same time took out a PPI policy. In 
2018 Mrs D complained to Allianz that the PPI had been mis-sold. Allianz  eventually agreed to uphold 
Mrs Ds complaint and it offered to pay her £33.04  in total compensation. 
Mrs D wasnt  happy with the amount offered as she felt she had paid much more for the PPI during 
the time the PPI was running on her card account.
Allianz only had records for Mrs Ds account from June 2000 onwards.  At this time the balance on the 
account was £76.64 and between the June statement and November 2000  Mrs D seemed  to make 
the minimum payments each month and then fully cleared the balance in November  2000. From 
December 2000 onwards the statements provided there was a zero balance  on the account until the 
account was closed. 
Allianz has used the actual data from June 2000 to May 2001  to estimate what  Mrs D may have paid 
for PPI for the period the PPI was on the card but for which it has no actual data, that is from July 
1989 to June  2000. 
Mrs D hasnt been able to provide any documentary evidence about  the account but says she 
regularly had a balance of £200 to £250 on the account. She originally said she always  paid off the 
balance each  month, except for two to three months when she paid in instalments. However she has 
later said she only made the minimum payments each month.
Our adjudicator looked  at what Allianz had done to estimate  the costs of the PPI from 1989 to 2000 
and said it wasnt fair. He said Allianz should make an average offer to Mrs D based on data it had 
from other customers from around the same sort of time. 
Allianz has not responded to this recommendation  so the complaint  has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has now agreed to settle  the complaint and pay compensation to refund the costs of the PPI 
so Im not looking  at how the PPI policy came to be sold. Im only looking  at whether the 
compensation Allianz has offered to Mrs D is fair. 
Mrs D opened her account in July 1989  and its agreed that the PPI was taken out at the same time. 
The credit  limit on this type of store card at the start would have  been £500.  
Allianz has said the only records it has are statements for the account from June 2000 onwards. 
These are not full statements but just computer records of statement  summaries which show any 
balance, spending and charges to the account every month. The records provided  show a balance on 
the account of £76.64 in June 2000. After this date there is no spending on the account,  only the 
addition of interest and PPI each  month.  
Ref: DRN81351764These records indicate Mrs D made the minimum  payment most months and then cleared the 
account after the November  statement. Interest was added each month, as was PPI whilst there was 
a balance on the account.
Looking at this limited  evidence available and taking account of the testimony of Mrs D, I think that in 
this particular case  what  Allianz has done in using  the first 12 months of data it holds for the account, 
does not give a fair estimate of the possible costs Mrs D paid for the PPI. I think its likely Mrs D did 
have a balance substantially higher  than £76.64  for periods of time whilst she was using the account 
between 1989 and 2000.
The approach Allianz has taken is often accepted as being fair where  there are periods for which no 
accurate data is available. It assumes that a customer would have used the account  in a similar way 
and with a similar spending  pattern over the life of the account  as they did in the first year of the 
accurate data. 
But in this case looking  at the way Mrs D used the account  in the 5 months whilst there was a 
balance, she spent nothing  on it and was reducing the balance to zero.  So I dont think its a 
reasonable approach to assume she opened the card in 1989 and only ever had a balance of up to 
£76.64. So in the circumstances of this case, as the accurate data period is unlikely to be a true 
reflection of the way the card was used previously, alternative ways of working out fair compensation  
have to be considered.
Our adjudicator suggested  one way would be for Allianz  to pay what  is called  an average offer. This is 
an amount of compensation Allianz  would offer based on data it had accumulated from other 
customers who had similar accounts with PPI to Mrs D. If it had such data for the period from 1989 to 
2000 then this average  offer approach may be fair where there  is limited or no data available  for an 
account. 
But as Allianz has not responded to the adjudicators recommendation to use this method I can only 
assume that it doesnt  have such  data for this period of time, so this method is no longer an option. 
So Ive thought about what would be an alternative fair approach to estimate what  Mrs D might have 
paid for the PPI costs. Mrs D has told us she had a balance of between £200 and £250 for most of the 
period the account was active. But she has been somewhat inconsistent in recalling  how much she 
made in repayments. She told us initially she repaid the whole balance every month with the 
exception of a few months when  she spread the cost. But later shes said she only made the minimum  
repayments each month. 
It is very difficult to find a clear approach to try to accurately work out the costs of the PPI Mrs D paid. 
It is very possible she did have a balance of up to £250 from time to time and then eventually cleared 
it, or cleared  it regularly each month. 
If she cleared her balance every month, as she originally suggested, then she wouldnt have paid card 
rate interest  on the premiums. But she wouldve been out of pocket  so would get 15% or 8% per year 
compensatory interest on the amounts she was out of pocket.  She would  have been out of pocket for 
the full amount after December 2000 when the balance was cleared  and there  is no evidence of PPI 
being charged  further.
As there  is very little information available to use, and to be fair to both parties, I think the fairest  
approach here would  be to say that from July 1989 to May 2000 it should be assumed  Mrs D had a 
balance of £250.00. This would be a balance on the account in line with what Mrs D recalls and also 
be 50% of the credit limit on this store  card when it opened, which would  be a reasonable  average to 
assume. 
Ref: DRN81351765It should also be assumed that she cleared the balance  each month so paid no card rate interest on 
the PPI premiums. But she would have been out of pocket for the premium she paid each month so 
should get 15% simple interest each year on this amount until April 1993 and 8% simple interest after 
this date. 
There may have been times when Mrs D did pay some card rate interest but there are also likely  to 
have been times when  she had a balance less than £250.00 or a zero balance and paid no premium.  
So overall the approach I am suggesting would  provide a balanced  approach and result in fair 
compensation for Mrs D for the estimated period.  
From June 2000 Allianz has accurate data and should then use this to finalise its calculation of the 
compensation due to Mrs D.
In summary I dont think the way Allianz  has assessed the possible costs Mrs D paid for the PPI is fair 
in the particular circumstances of this case. And each  case has to be considered  individually based 
on the evidence presented.  
what Allianz needs to do
Allianz should  rework the offer of compensation. To do this it should make the following  assumptions:-
That in the first month of having the card Mrs D spent £250
And each  month  until June 2000  Mrs D spent a further £250 
And each  month  until June 2000 Mrs D cleared the outstanding balance
From June 2000 onwards  Allianz can use the actual data for the PPI costs and repayments.
Allianz also needs also to work out the 15% or 8% simple interest on each payment of the PPI 
(including interest from the known data period) from the date paid to the date of final calculation. 
Allianz should  provide its calculations and the final compensation amount in response to this 
provisional decision.
If either party is able to find and provide any additional evidence about the account  that may reflect 
some spending pattern whilst the account  was being used then I shall consider that before issuing  my 
final decision.  
my provisional  decision
I am intending to direct Allianz  Insurance Plc to calculate the compensation  due to Mrs D using the 
assumptions and approach as I have outlined  above. 
In response to this provisional decision Allianz  Insurance Plc should provide the calculations for the 
approach I have outlined. 
Subject to any further information provided by either party by the date given at the start of this 
decision, Im intending to direct Alliance  Insurance Plc to pay Mrs D the compensation  amount, 
calculated as I have indicated in this decision. 
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8135176