K820x#14complaint
Mrs N doesnt think its fair for Tesco Personal  Finance Plc (Tesco) to use her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce her outstanding  debt.
background
Mrs N was sold PPI with a credit card. In 2018, Tesco upheld Mrs Ns complaint about the 
sale of the policy and, in total, made  an offer of £2,668.96 (after  tax). But it said it would use 
Mrs Ns refund to reduce  her outstanding debt.
Mrs N is represented by her son. He doesnt  think Tesco has shown that the whole debt is 
due and payable   and he wants Tesco to pay some  of the compensation to Mrs N. Mrs N is 
in financial difficulties and has a number of health  problems.  Mrs Ns representative says she 
needs the money to buy things that will improve her quality of life.
Our adjudicator sent Mrs Ns representative evidence to show that her outstanding debt is 
just under £3,000  and the whole debt is due and payable. And she said that although she 
understood why Mrs N wanted some of the PPI compensation to be paid to her directly,  she 
didnt think it would  be fair to tell Tesco  to do that in this case.
Mrs Ns representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me. He says Tesco didnt send Mrs N a default notice, so he doesnt think  the 
whole debt is due and payable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tesco upheld Mrs Ns complaint about the sale of the PPI policy  so I dont  need  to look at 
what happened when  it was sold. And Mrs N hasnt complained  about  the amount Tesco has 
offered.
So all I need to decide is whether or not its fair for Tesco to use Mrs Ns PPI compensation 
to reduce her outstanding debt.
Mrs Ns representative says the whole £3,000 isnt due and payable  because Tesco hasnt  
complied with sections  87 and 88 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974). Section 87 
says a business must send the consumer  a default  notice before it can terminate an 
account or demand earlier payment  of any sum.  And section 88 explains what the default 
notice must  say and what it means.
Mrs Ns representative says Tesco hasnt  sent Mrs N a default notice  so it cant  terminate 
her account  or ask her to repay all she owes.
Tesco has sent us a copy of a letter it sent Mrs N dated 20 September 2017. This says:
We have terminated your credit card account
We recently sent you a Default  Notice. Since  we have not received  the amount 
requested in the Notice, we are terminating our credit agreement with you.
Ref: DRN84048392The letter says the amount due is £2,999.70.
Mrs Ns representative says she didnt  receive the termination notice.
I dont think I need  to decide  whether or not Tesco sent Mrs N a default notice or correctly 
terminated the account. Tesco has sent us copies of letters  it sent Mrs N in August 2017 that 
show she didnt make any payment in July 2017 or August 2017. As Ive explained above, 
Mrs N owed £2,999.70  in September 2017. Tesco  stopped charging Mrs N interest  in 2016 
and yet her debt today  is almost the same  as it was in September  2017.  So Mrs N hasnt 
been able to repay much. In these circumstances, I think  its fair for Tesco  to use Mrs Ns 
PPI compensation  to reduce the amount she owes.
Ive thought carefully about whether or not I should tell Tesco  to pay Mrs N some of her PPI 
compensation so that she can buy things that will improve her quality of life.
First, Id like to say how very sorry I am that Mrs N is going through such a difficult  time. I 
understand why her son has asked for some  of the compensation to be paid to her directly  
and I dont doubt the money would be put to good use. But I have to look at things from both 
sides. And Mrs N owes Tesco a lot of money  and she hasnt been able to repay  much  
recently. Realistically, I dont  know if or when shell be able to repay what  she owes. And in 
these circumstances,  I dont think it would be fair to tell Tesco to pay Mrs N some of her PPI 
compensation when the likelihood of her repaying her debt seems  remote.
Finally, when Mrs N referred her complaint to our service, her representative said:  the PPI 
premiums would have  been paid directly  to her insurer and Mrs Ns monthly credit card 
payments would have  been used to pay the PPI premiums first, so the amount she owes  has 
nothing to do with PPI. He also said Tesco doesnt have a contractual  right to use Mrs Ns 
PPI compensation  to reduce her balance.
Tesco has sent us a copy of a letter it sent Mrs N dated 12 March  2018 which explains that:
The PPI premiums were added to Mrs Ns credit card balance each month, just like 
any other purchase  she didnt pay the money directly  to the insurer;  and,
Mrs Ns credit card payments wouldnt have been used  to pay for PPI first  they 
would have been used to repay  different types of debt according to the terms and 
conditions.
This is how credit card PPI works.  To this, Id add:
Before the value of a successful claim was deducted, the offer included more than 
£1,200 in interest at Credit Card interest  rate. The reason  why Tesco has offered to 
refund some of the interest it charged  Mrs N is because the PPI premiums were 
added to her credit  card balance  each month   and she was charged more  interest 
as a result.
Ref: DRN84048393That said,  this isnt why Ive reached the decision I have.
I havent said I think its fair for Tesco to use Mrs Ns PPI compensation to reduce the 
amount she owes because her debt includes  unpaid  PPI premiums (and interest)  or because  
Tesco has a contractual right to do so.
My role is to decide this complaint  by reference to what I think is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. And, put simply, Mrs N owes  Tesco some money and Tesco  
owes Mrs N some money. The debts are closely connected and I dont think  it would be fair 
to tell Tesco to pay Mrs N what  it owes her when its possible she wont  pay Tesco  what she 
owes it.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think its fair for Tesco  Personal  Finance Plc to use Mrs Ns 
PPI compensation  to reduce her outstanding  debt.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8404839