K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc unfairly recorded a marker  against him on the National 
Fraud Database operated by Credit  Industry Fraud Avoidance system (CIFAs). He also says 
his accounts were closed  unfairly. He wants the marker removed and compensation for the 
trouble hes been  caused.
Background
Mr A held several accounts  with HSBC. On 7 November 2017 a cheque was deposited into 
one of his accounts for £18,940. The cheque was reported as fraudulent,  and Mr As access  
to the account  was removed while HSBC investigated.
On the 8 November 2017  a payment of £537.69 was attempted  from Mr As account. And 
two days later a further payment of £3001.00  was attempted. Both attempts were  made  on a 
money transfer website  using Mr As debit card details, a website  Mr A had used numerous 
times in the past, according  to his account  history.  
Mr A rang HSBC on the 10 November 2017. He said hed noticed the deposit on his account 
and wanted to report it. Hed been expecting  a deposit of £3000  from a friend, so had 
checked his account for this reason. He says HSBC  didnt  ask him any questions or require 
him to discuss his account  further.
HSBC decided to terminate its relationship with Mr A. It issued him a letter on 1 December 
2017, informing  him his accounts would close immediately. The account in which the cheque 
funds were deposited closed some  time later. There was a debit balance  on the account 
after the cheque  funds were removed, so the account closed once the balance was paid off. 
In March 2018 HSBC recorded  a mis-use of facility marker against Mr A on the National 
Fraud Database,  operated  by CIFAs in relation to the cheque.
Mr A complained to HSBC in November 2018  about the marker and the closure  of the 
account. He says hed lost out on job offers and the marker continues  to cause difficulties 
due to the industry he works in. He insists he had no knowledge of the cheque. He resided in 
another country than the United Kingdom at the time and couldnt have gone  into a branch in 
the United Kingdom to undertake the deposit.
HSBC say it was correct to register the marker.  Mr A had attempted  to make payments out 
his account, so he knew his balance had significantly increased at that those times.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Mr A brought his complaint to us. An investigator  
considered the complaint but decided not to uphold it. In summary  they found:
-Mr A may have lived in another  country when the cheque was deposited, but this 
didnt establish  he had no awareness  of it. CCTV footage wouldnt establish  he was 
unaware of the deposit either.
-Mr As account was in an unarranged overdraft prior to deposit. This indicated  
whoever attempted the payments  probably  knew the cheque had been deposited, so 
they were actively aware of changes to Mr As balance.
Ref: DRN87263922-There was a lack of a persuasive explanation  as to why someone would retain Mr As 
details to deposit the cheque and try to make payments without his awareness.  
Doing so would risk Mr A spotting the funds  in his account  and preventing  the money 
moving on.
-Mr A says he occasionally lost his HSBC  card.  But the records  HSBC provided show  
the payment attempts  were made  using  the details  from his active card at the time, 
which was still in his possession.
-The attempted payments were made on a money transfer  website Mr A had used to 
make payments previously. This pointed to it being him making the attempts.
-The HSBC advisor Mr A spoke to on the phone told him he needed  to go into a 
branch with photo identification to discuss what had happened on his account. Mr A 
says he wasnt told this, but this wasnt correct. 
-On balance there was enough  information and evidence for HSBC  to show it had 
complied with the evidential standard CIFAs requires of its members to register  a 
marker.
-HSBC had correctly  followed  the terms of Mr As accounts when it closed them.
Mr A strongly disagreed with the outcome.  He repeated he wasnt  in the United Kingdom  to 
deposit the cheque,  so it couldnt  have  been  him. He was sure he was never  asked to go 
into a branch of HSBC  to discuss his account. And he emphasised he is a victim. The 
investigator reviewed his points, but they didnt  alter their findings.
Mr A has asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman,  so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr As complaint  for broadly similar reasons to those given by the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
CIFAs marker
HSBC is a member of CIFAs, which operates the National Fraud Database.  In order to 
register a marker against one of its customers on the database, HSBC needs  to meet the 
threshold of information  and evidence required by CIFAs  guidelines.  The guidelines are 
published on CIFAs website.
Ive considered the guidelines and weighed the information HSBC had, as well as all the 
wider information available to me. And I find there was a sufficient basis  for HSBC to register  
the marker.
Ref: DRN87263923I understand Mr A resided  in another country  other than the United Kingdom when the 
cheque was deposited. Hes provided ample  evidence to establish  this. And I havent 
ignored what hes said. But the investigator  was right to conclude  that residing in another  
country by itself doesnt show he didnt have an awareness of the cheque. Its quite possible 
someone else deposited the cheque  with his consent and knowledge.  Im also satisfied that 
CCTV footage  of someone other  than Mr A depositing the cheque  wouldnt establish Mr A 
wasnt expecting the deposit.
Mr A was in an unarranged overdraft prior to the deposit. So, if he was unaware of a 
substantial increase to his available balance, I doubt  hed have attempted any large 
payments out of the account. But the attempted payments were to one website;  a website 
Mr A made numerous payments to in the past, including  a payment made a day prior to the 
deposit.
I find it improbable that someone unknown to Mr A, deposited the cheque without his 
permission and went on to try to pay the same website Mr A used only one day before.
Instead, I find it much more likely it was Mr A or someone with his permission who attempted 
the payments,  knowing they were trying to draw from the deposited  funds.
Mr A says he rang HSBC  to report the deposit.  But I must account  for the possibility that he 
rang on discovering his access  to the account  had been restricted, following the payments 
out of the account being refused; the purpose  being  to distance himself  from what had 
happened. 
Mr A says he wasnt asked to go to an HSBC  branch to discuss his account. But Ive listened 
to the call the investigator referred to, and I find he was told this. The advisor said he needed  
go into a branch with photographic identification and he could do this in the country he 
resided. Im satisfied then that he was aware HSBC wanted to speak to him about  the 
account. And I find him not speaking to them, and his acquiesce regarding  the closure  of his 
accounts telling.
I dont have reason  to doubt Mr A experienced  difficulties getting employment  in the way he 
describes. And this may be related to the CIFAs marker. But I find HSBC  met the evidential 
threshold required by CIFAs,  so I wont be directing it to remove the marker or pay 
compensation to Mr A.
Account Closure
HSBC is entitled  to end its relationship with Mr A, in the same way Mr A couldve decided  he 
no longer wanted  to be its customer.  I find it appropriate to interfere with HSBCs  discretion 
in this regard,  unless I find the exercise  of that discretion was based on improper reasons.
HSBC should,  however,  apply the correct  terms when  it closes accounts. Most  of Mr As 
accounts closed  immediately. And from what  I can see, the account in which  the cheque  was 
deposited remained restricted  until the unarranged  balance was paid off. Ive considered the 
applicable terms for this kind of situation,  and Im satisfied they were applied  correctly. 
Ref: DRN87263924Indeed, I can understand why HSBC wanted to terminate its relationship with Mr A given the 
factors Ive discussed  above. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my decision is to not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8726392