K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited wrongly sold him two 
unsuitable life insurance policies in 1988 and 1989 respectively.
background
Abbey Life upheld his complaint about  the 1988  recommendation,  saying that a term 
assurance policy would have been more  suitable  than a whole of life (WoL) one. However, it 
said that, taking  account of its surrender  value,  Mr P had not suffered as a result of taking 
out the inappropriate WoL policy. 
It felt the 1989  policy which included critical illness cover had been suitable for Mr Ps 
declared circumstances, and outlined why.
His representative disagreed with both responses, saying:
If the 1988 policy was not suitable for Mr P he should receive  back  all the premiums 
hed paid (minus any surrender sum). It was not fair to compare the cost of these  
premiums with the cost of a notionally more suitable  term assurance policy  - and only 
liable for paying  any residual balance  which in this case  Abbey Life claimed didnt 
apply
Re the critical illness policy, he said the adviser  did not ask about  Mr Ps attitude  to 
risk and not alternatives were  discussed
It is not clear why a WoL policy was recommended (which included critical illness 
protection)
Affordability appears to have  been an issue as the plan lapsed without value after a 
few years
An adjudicator at this service  felt Abbey Lifes loss calculations re the 1988 policy had been 
fair and in line with how this service dealt with such issues, particularly given there  was no 
dispute that Mr P wanted life cover at least until his son was 21. Therefore she didnt think  it 
would be fair to instruct Abbey Life to simply repay all the premiums which had paid for 
valuable life cover  for more than 23 years.
She also felt it wasnt unreasonable to recommend a separate  WoL policy in 1989 which 
provided critical illness cover (which Mr P appeared to want at the time) given this was often 
not available  as a standalone policy back then.
Mr Ps representative did not agree, and asked  for an ombudsman  to review  the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons.
Abbey Life accept that it would have been more appropriate to recommend a term 
assurance policy back in 1988 and calculated  potential  compensation on this basis.  Given 
there is no dispute that Mr P wanted  life cover at least until his son reached 21 years of age 
Ref: DRN87232162it is right that any potential loss takes account  of what hed have needed to pay if hed been 
recommended  and chosen - such a policy.
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest that Abbey Lifes loss calculations  arent fair, reasonable, 
and in line with how this service would undertake such  a redress  situation.
Equally, Ive seen  no concrete evidence to indicate the 1999 recommendation was 
unsuitable. To that extent Mr Ps representatives comments about affordability and the lack 
of alternatives being discussed appear  to be simply speculations about possible concerns 
rather than evidence-based objections.
Given Mr Ps age at the time its likely that the vast majority of his premiums  went to 
providing critical illness cover rather than the additional life cover. Given most  providers did 
not provide standalone cover, I therefore dont  accept  this recommendation was necessarily 
unsuitable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8723216