K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about an early repayment  charge (ERC)  that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC is 
telling Mr and Mrs G they owe it after they repaid their mortgage. They say Barclays  
promised that no ERC  was due.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr and Mrs G when my 
decision is published.
There were two components to Mr and Mrs G;s mortgage; the original loan which was on a 
tracker rate with no ERC, and a home  improvement loan which  was on a rate product which 
did have an ERC. As is the norm these days, the terms of the mortgage included  a provision 
to port (that is, carry over to a new mortgage, assuming it was approved)  the product from 
the existing mortgage and avoid  paying the ERC.  
Mr and Mrs G repaid  the mortgage and took out a new one towards the end of 2018. As this 
was within  the ERC  period for the home improvement loan, an ERC of around £4,700  was 
payable. As they were  porting,  Mr and Mrs G say they believed the ERC would be waived. 
They based  this on what was in the mortgage documentation, redemption  statement and 
conversations their solicitor had with the bank.  Relying on that information,  the solicitor  
deducted the ERC from the amount quoted on the redemption statement when remitting  the 
funds to Barclays.
Shortly afterwards, Barclays contacted the solicitor  to say there was a shortfall  that needed 
paying because  of the ERC that was due. Mr and Mrs G initially  disputed the payment and 
made a complaint, which was referred here after Barclays rejected it. Eventually, they paid the 
ERC in protest, mainly  because by then, their buyers solicitor was threatening legal action due 
to Barclays refusing to release its charge over the property until the money  had been  paid
Our investigator didnt  think the main thrust of the complaint should be upheld,  but he 
recommended Barclays  pay Mr and Mrs G £300 compensation for confusing  and 
contradictory messages.  Barclays agreed but Mr and Mrs G have asked that the complaint 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN87005462my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The complaint is simpler  than its been made to look.  The starting point is that, under the 
terms of the existing contract  between Mrs and Mr B and Barclays,  the ERC was payable.  
The reason  for that is that although Mr and Mrs G were  porting, it was partial rather than a 
full port. Mr and Mrs G were porting the tracker product from the old mortgage to the new 
one, but they werent porting the product from the home improvement loan. 
The new mortgage  was £628,000 plus fees; of that, about £153,000  was the balance of the 
old mortgage carried over on the tracker rate. For their own reasons, and on the advice of 
their introducing broker, Mr and Mrs G had decided not to carry over the product from the 
other portion of the existing  mortgage. Instead,  theyd elected to take a new fixed rate for the 
part of the new mortgage that wasnt covered  by the ported tracker. To put this in simple 
terms, the only part of their existing mortgage  that Mr and Mrs G ported  to the new one was 
the part that wasnt subject to an ERC in the first place.
Much has been made of apparent ambiguity in Barclays documentation and the 
conversations between it and Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor. Its true that the offer of advance  for 
the new mortgage included a narrative  saying when any ERC might be waived.  Ive studied 
that and it specifies the account number to which that clause applies; its the account 
number for the original  tracker mortgage,  which is being ported to the new mortgage. The 
account number  for the home  improvement loan isnt listed, because the product from it isnt 
being ported.  I dont  find that particularly ambiguous.
Ive listened to recordings of two conversations Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor had with the bank. In 
the first, which was to request the redemption statement, the solicitor mentions that there are 
two account numbers, but that call contains  no discussion about ERCs. The ERC, and 
whether it might be waived is only discussed  in the second conversation, and its true that in 
that conversation, the call handler says the ERC amount can be deducted from the amount 
remitted to clear. 
But thats in answer to a question in which the solicitor gave the account number for the 
original tracker mortgage. She didnt mention the home improvement loan account number. 
That being  so, it seems to me that the reply wasnt inaccurate; it correctly answered the 
question that had been asked. 
Ref: DRN87005463It could be argued that it was incomplete, in that the handler didnt go on to say there  was 
another account on which the ERC was due and needed to be paid. But even if hed done 
that, it wouldnt have  changed Mr and Mrs Gs liability to pay it. Where incomplete  
information has been given, we dont  put the consumer  in the position theyd be in if the 
incomplete information had been  complete. We put them in the position theyd be in if the 
complete information  had been given to begin with. 
The liability  to pay the ERC was set once Mr and Mrs G chose, at the time applying for the 
new mortgage, not to port the fixed rate product  from their existing mortgage to the new one 
but take a different product instead. That was their choice, and one in which  Barclays  had 
played no part. Mr and Mrs G appear  to suggest  they and their broker  understood ERCs 
were waived generally when a new mortgage  was taken. Nothing Ive seen or heard  gives 
me any reason  to find that they formed that understanding from anything Barclays told them.
If the handler of the second  call had given  a fuller answer, all that would  have happened  is 
that Mr and Mrs Gs solicitor would have paid everything that was due at the time of 
redemption. In other words, Mr and Mrs G would be in the same  position then as they are 
now, but without  having had the nuisance and aggravation of bringing a complaint. For that, I 
agree with the investigator that £300  is fair compensation. The bank has already paid £100,  
so another £200 is due.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr and Mrs G £200, making 
total compensation of £300.  My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8700546