K820x#14Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, wont refund unauthorised 
cash withdrawals from his account.
Background
Mr L moved in with his mum to help care for her. He sold his house  in January 2018 and 
deposited £118,379 from the sale proceeds  into his Halifax account.
In January 2018, he received a new debit card, as his existing card was about to expire.  
Halifax didnt issue a new pin.
In April 2019, at his mums suggestion,  Mr L checked his Halifax  account  and noticed 
multiple ATM cash withdrawals which he didnt recognise. He said he contacted the police, 
who told him his card had been cloned  and he should speak to his bank. He called Halifax  
and told it he didnt  recognise any ATM cash withdrawals which  had been made since  
January 2018.  The withdrawals totalled £80,000. He told Halifax  that no-one had access to 
his card,  and he believed  his card had been  cloned. 
He also asked Halifax why it had allowed his balance to fall below £100,000. He said when 
hed opened  the account in 2015,  hed asked for a buffer so that his balance would never fall 
below £100,000.
Halifax advised him that his actual card and pin had been used to make the cash  
withdrawals, not a cloned card. It explained  that the chip in a card cant be successfully 
cloned. 
A few weeks  later, Mr L called Halifax again  and told it that the key box for his mums carers 
had been smashed and the key was missing. He said his conversation with Halifax  prompted 
him to check  the box. He asked Halifax for a refund of the ATM cash  withdrawals.
Halifax investigated his complaint but decided not to refund him. It said there  was no 
evidence of fraudulent activity because:
the ATM cash withdrawals were made with his actual  card and pin
Mr L said no-one had access to his card and he hadnt shared his pin with anyone  
else
there were no known cases of a chip being  successfully cloned
even if the key box were broken into and the key stolen, there was no explanation for 
how the thief knew the pin.
Halifax also explained that it didnt offer a buffer on any of its accounts,  it had no record  of 
Mr L requesting such facility and that he had nowhere near £100,000  in his account  when  he 
opened it.
Mr L wasnt happy with Halifaxs  decision, so he asked this service to investigate.
Mr L told us that when he went to work, he left his card in his wallet at home on a counter. 
He said his workplace  is a clean space and staff are not allowed to take any possessions  
into the building.  
Ref: DRN80603692He confirmed that hed memorised  his pin and hadnt shared it with anyone  else.
He said his mum had carers in and out all the time. In May 2019, he noticed that the key box 
had been broken into and the key was missing. He reported it to the police and the council, 
who repaired  the box but kept the same lock.
He said he didnt check his account  regularly because he seldom used it. He also said he 
didnt receive any statements between January 2018 and April 2019, which is why he didnt 
notice the cash  withdrawals earlier.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt uphold  it. In summary, he felt unable 
to conclude that the cash withdrawals had been made  fraudulently and was persuaded they 
were most likely made and authorised by Mr L.
Mr L responded to say he now knows  who stole his card. He said his friend gave him the 
name of a local homeless woman. He believes she stole his card and made the cash  
withdrawals. He maintains  he didnt  give her his card or pin. The woman  has now passed  
away.
Mr L has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr L and Halifax have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr L that Ive read the file, including  his comments  and evidence.
Having reviewed the evidence, Im afraid  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I realise this will be a huge  disappointment 
for Mr L and I am sorry to give him bad news. I will set out my reasons and hope  that he 
understands how I have  reached my decision.
In short,  Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr L says he didnt  make  the ATM  cash withdrawals and is seeking a refund. So, my 
primary concern is to come  to a view about whether I think  he authorised the withdrawals.
Having reviewed Mr Ls transaction history,  Im satisfied the genuine card and pin were used 
in order for the disputed  cash  withdrawals to take place.  And despite  what Mr L has said, I 
dont believe  the cash withdrawals were made with a cloned card. Whilst the magnetic strip 
might be cloned, the chip cant be. And this service hasnt seen any cases  where the chip in 
a card was cloned  successfully.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that the card and pin are not, on their own, 
enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think about whether the 
Ref: DRN80603693evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr L made the withdrawals or consented 
to them  being  made by someone else.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr L made  
them himself. These  are my reasons.  
Mr L said only he knew the pin
Mr L said he kept the pin issued by the bank. He had memorised it and he hadnt  shared it 
with anyone else. Im afraid  on his own admission,  this leaves him as the only person who 
couldve used the pin with the card. 
Ive considered his evidence  that someone  stole the key from the box. The disputed  cash  
withdrawals started in February  2018. Yet, he only noticed the damaged key box in May 
2019. I find it odd that neither he nor the carers noticed the missing  key and damaged box 
earlier. However, even  if a third party had taken  the card after gaining access  to his home, 
theres still no explanation for how they knew the pin. When this was put to Mr L, he 
responded by saying  that the letter  with the pin was still on the counter or table at home. 
However, as the pin was issued in 2015, I think this was highly unlikely. 
Based on this evidence,  I dont consider  that his card and pin were  stolen by a thief, carer or 
an unknown third party.  
Genuine card payments
There were card payments to stores and online merchants in between  the disputed ATM 
cash withdrawals and sometimes on the same day. 
Mr L didnt dispute  these transactions when he first complained to Halifax, not even when he 
went into the branch  with his highlighted bank statements. These transactions  proved he still 
had his card and was using  it. So, if there were unauthorised  transactions, then someone 
was taking his card and returning it, without him noticing. I dont believe this couldve been 
an unknown third party. 
When this was explained to him, Mr L changed  his evidence and said any debit card 
payments made at the same time or on the same  day as a cash  withdrawal was also fraud.  
But he didnt  provide a complete list of any disputed card payments.
However, there are transactions which were made  on different days  and many card 
payments were made  to merchants hed used  before, between  September  2017 and 
January 2018.  
I consider its more likely,  therefore, that the card payments were genuine, and that Mr L had 
his card on him when  the disputed cash withdrawals were made.
Mr L didnt report the disputed cash withdrawals earlier
It was over a year before Mr L reported  the disputed cash withdrawals. He said he wasnt 
receiving statements and didnt check this account regularly because he seldom  used it.
However, Halifax has provided evidence showing he requested paper statements, and these  
were sent to his home address on a monthly basis. The address is the same as the one we 
hold on file for him. Mr L hasnt mentioned any problems with his post, so I think  its more  
likely that he received his statements. Its also odd that he didnt  complain to Halifax  about 
not receiving statements.
Ref: DRN80603694However, as he said, he didnt pay much attention to this account so its possible he didnt 
check his statements or just allowed the post to pile up. But he did visit the local branch  on 
31 March 2018,  3 September 2018 and 6 November 2018  to make bank transfers to third 
parties. That was an opportunity  to check his balance. 
Police report
The officer who investigated  Mr Ls complaint has contacted us. He said Mr L showed him 
the key box in 2019. He said it was damaged, but he told Mr L he couldnt  say that it had 
been intentionally broken  into. He said he had concerns about  Mr Ls version  of events  and 
asked him to provide a full list of disputed transactions within thirty days, as CCTV footage 
was held for that length of time. Mr L didnt provide the information in time,  despite being 
chased. The matter  was not progressed.
Mr L has changed his version of events
Lastly, Mr L has provided inconsistent statements throughout the investigation  of his 
complaint by this service.  Im afraid this hasnt helped him. 
I fully understand  that its normal for a person to forget some  facts or information when they 
first describe  an incident. Feeling distressed can cause us to forget or become confused. 
And often  we dont  realise the importance  or relevance of information  at the time we make  a 
complaint.
However, Mr Ls recollection of events  changed whenever he received unwelcome news. 
None of his new evidence fits with a plausible,  consistent version of events. For example, 
the damage to the key box and missing  key. I dont believe  this couldve been overlooked 
since January 2018 by him or the carers.  I would also have expected him to complain about 
the card payments earlier, if he hadnt  made them. He also said he always kept his wallet 
with him, then said he left it at home  when he went to work. And he said no-one visited  the 
house then changed it to say carers were coming and going all the time. Im afraid I found 
his testimony unconvincing and I think the variations are too substantial  to put down to 
stress, upset or confusion.
I note Mr L mentioned he was part of a wider harassment campaign by a third party.  Both 
Halifax and the investigator have asked  Mr L if there  is any relevant information  which  he is 
holding back   for example was there someone he knew who had access to his card.  But he 
said he wasnt holding anything back.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr L authorised the disputed  cash  
withdrawals. It follows, therefore, that Halifax is entitled to hold him liable  for them.  
I can see from the file that Mr Ls personal circumstances are very difficult for him and his 
financial loss is great.  I regret sending him such disappointing news. I hope he finds support 
to deal with this news. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
Ref: DRN80603695Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060369