K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that the limitations of his policy with Ageas Insurance Limited have 
prevented him pursuing a claim for legal expenses insurance. 
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
Mr Bs neighbour installed new fascia boards to the side of their house  which  he says 
encroach onto his property. He also says his wall tiles were damaged  during  the installation.  
Mr B took steps to try to resolve things with his neighbour but when this didnt prove 
possible, he contacted Ageas to make  a claim.
Mr B wanted  to take legal  action against his neighbour.  Ageas asked one of their panel 
solicitors Ill refer to as M to look at the claim.   
M wrote to Mr B on 25 May 2018. They gave  general information  about some of the policy 
terms and some information specific to Mr Bs claim.  They outlined the actions Mr B would 
need to take to progress his claim. M warned him that he would  be responsible for the cost 
of obtaining reports  to evidence his claim had the required prospects  of success. And that 
given the nature of the dispute, it may not be proportionate for him to pursue. 
Mr B complained, Ageas provided  their response  and explained that a solicitor had said that 
without expert reports, there werent  reasonable prospects of success and that the claim 
may not be proportionate to pursue. They said as both prospects and proportionality are 
requirements of the policy, the claim was declined.  
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators  concluded  Ageas  had 
acted fairly  and didnt  recommend they needed  to do more.  As he disagrees,  Mr B has 
asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So Im not upholding this complaint and 
wont be asking Ageas to do more.  I know  this will be disappointing  for Mr B, so Id like to 
explain why.
No insurance policy  can cover every eventuality  and there  are almost always  terms and 
conditions that set out what is and isnt covered. Mr Bs policy  says that for cover to be in 
place There must be a more than 50% chance  of winning the case and achieving a positive 
outcome. This is a very common term in legal expenses insurance and I dont consider it to 
be inherently unfair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately  paying  client wouldnt 
generally continue  a case when advised  not to, so I dont think  an insurer should have to 
either. 
When M wrote to Mr B, they explained  that it was for him to show  he has a valid claim under 
his policy. And in order to show  his claim had reasonable  prospects of success and was 
proportionate to pursue, they said Mr B would need to obtain some  expert  reports detailing 
Ref: DRN86483952the extent of the encroachment and any impact  on the value of his home. They  also said he 
would need to provide photographic evidence to support his claim in relation to the wall tiles 
and that he should consider trying to mitigate his losses by claiming for a repair under his 
home insurance. 
M also warned Mr B that the costs of these reports may not be recoverable  under his policy. 
They expressed concern  that the issues in question might only be nominal and that it was 
unlikely they would be proportionate to pursue, which is a requirement for cover under the 
policy. The letter explained  that they would close their file within 14 days  unless  they 
received confirmation  from Mr B that he intended to instruct experts to progress his claim.
I agree  that it is for Mr B to show that he has a valid claim  under his policy. I think  M, as 
solicitors, are well placed to know the steps  required to demonstrate  that a claim has 
prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue. So I think it is fair for Ageas, who arent 
legal experts themselves,  to rely on Ms opinion when making a decision about the claim. 
As things  stand I dont  think  its unreasonable for Ageas to decline the claim. If Mr B were  to 
provide the reports  that M requested, or were to provide  his own solicitors  opinion 
supporting the prospects and proportionality of his case, I would  expect Ageas to look again  
at the claim. 
Mr B says that his claim was declined because the £50,000 limit of indemnity that his policy 
provides was insufficient to pursue his neighbour. He points out that other insurers provide  a 
higher limit of indemnity.  Ms letter gave some information about claims in general. But there  
is no evidence to support  that his claim was declined due to the level of indemnity. The claim 
wasnt accepted  as Mr B hasnt yet shown it to meet the requirements of the policy with 
regard to prospects  of success and proportionality. 
Some of Mr Bs comments also indicate that he thinks a policy shouldnt be sold with a 
£50,000 limit of indemnity as he believes it is insufficient. But as this relates  to the sale of the 
policy and not his claim, it isnt something  Ill be commenting on in this decision.  Taking  
everything into consideration,  I dont think Mr B has been treated unfairly  by Ageas, so I 
dont think they need to take any further action. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8648395