K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained MBNA Limited wont refund him for transactions worth  over £1,500 
which he cant recall making.
background
In November 2017 Mr S was abroad with a few friends. They  went out drinking  on 
3 November (into the morning of 4 November).  They went  into one bar late on after having 
had a few drinks. Some of his friends left and Mr S was on his own.  His memory after that is 
unclear. He distinctly recalls feeling  uncomfortable  and threatened and doesnt think  he had 
his cards and phone with him for most  of the evening. He did have his phone later when he 
left the bar. The following  day he called  both MBNA  and his bank  as these were the two 
cards that were missing.  
MBNA felt the usage wasnt that dissimilar to what youd see in a bar of this nature. The 
transactions were  spaced out with what looked like drinks only being purchased at the 
beginning. Then later there were  two much larger transactions. After the first large  
transaction had been attempted at 03:49,  MBNA  had sent Mr S a text message to verify  this 
was him. They hadnt  got a response  until 04:19  at which  time that transaction  was 
processed. Mr S cant recall any of this and believes  he was drugged.
MBNA believed Mr S had been entering his card and PIN into the terminal in the bar so they 
felt hed authorised  these  transactions and wouldnt refund him.
Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. He felt it was possible Mr S had found  the situation  
threatening and difficult  towards the end. This may have been because  transactions  were 
attempted and declined.  The bar may have  thought  Mr S had received services for which  
hed not paid them. But overall  he felt Mr S had consented to these even if hed been under 
the influence of quite a bit of alcohol  or even been  drugged as he clearly believed. He 
didnt think MBNA should do anything further.
Mr S was upset by this conclusion. He pointed out that his bank had refunded  him for 
transactions which had happened in the same  bar. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider  
his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 5 February  2020. I didnt ask MBNA to refund the 
transactions Mr S made in the bar but I did ask them to refund him for his unused card fee.
MBNA objected to this conclusion. They  believed  Mr S had had the benefit of bonus miles 
which he could convert to the potential value of £143. They  were  concerned  Mr S may 
benefit twice over.
Mr S was disappointed in the outcome but was prepared to accept  it.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
Ref: DRN84947242my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as in my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
Firstly thats the law as highlighted above. In broad  terms a bank is expected  to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. I 
have taken that into account  when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).   
Regulated firms like MBNA  are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses  2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle 6).
As a matter  of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have taken  
proactive steps  to look to identify and help prevent  transactions  particularly unusual or out 
of character transactions  that could  involve fraud  or be the result of a scam (something 
also recognised  by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years   which banks are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether MBNA acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr S, or whether it should have  done  more than it did. 
Ref: DRN84947243So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both MBNA and Mr S have told us. Our investigator also got hold of copies of Mr Ss 
calls to MBNA on 5 November. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 23 August 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Theres no dispute Mr S was in a bar on 3-4 November. He tells us he was with 
friends some of whom  left earlier than he did. A round of drinks cost him £81.04 I 
think as this was the first transaction. A second drinks order nearly an hour later cost 
much less. This would  fit if Mr S was on his own by this time.
I dont doubt  Mr S believes he was drugged, that he felt threatened and he cant 
recall clearly what happened.  Hes not sure whether he entered  the PIN himself or 
whether people running the bar did this on his behalf. I accept there  would have been 
an opportunity for them to see Mr S enter his PIN. This is certainly a possibility Ive 
considered.
I accept Mr S has told us he doesnt recall  ever getting a text from MBNA  to confirm 
the transaction was him. I agree it is possible people at the bar responded to the text 
rather than him. Ive considered this possibility.
Weve had evidence  from one of Mr Ss friends.  They were worried that he wasnt 
there when they all got up in the morning.  Its clear Mr S had quite a harrowing time 
trying to get back to where they were staying. His phone battery had run out by this 
time too.
His friends encouraged him to contact both his bank and MBNA. Im not surprised 
Mr S contacted his bank  first. In his position  I too would have been more  concerned  
about somebody getting access to my bank account than my credit  card.
Ive noted  Mr S says his bank refunded him. Actually those  transactions were never 
processed. I think whats most likely  to have happened is that after Mr Ss MBNA  
card was declined  at 03:49;  the bar got Mr S to see whether he had another card to 
guarantee payment. The payment was authorised  by the banks systems but 
because the bar did get payment from MBNA at 04:20, they never processed the 
transaction.
There are some  small inconsistencies between the stories.  Thats  not whats driven 
my decision  here.  By the time we were able to progress  Mr Ss case it was already 
nearly two years  after the event  so I wouldnt expect the story to be identical.
By using  his card and PIN, regardless of the amount on the terminal  or even whether 
Mr S was so drunk he didnt notice what it said, Mr S was consenting to the 
transactions.
MBNA didnt approach the bar in question to verify what  was purchased at the time. I 
appreciate they had no grounds to chargeback the transactions (as fraud because 
they were completed using the genuine  card and PIN) but I would have  expected 
them to have raised a merchant dispute about  what was bought. This has meant 
potentially valuable  evidence  doesnt  exist.
Our service is aware of bars which have been  subject to a number of very similar  
complaints: threatening behaviour, over-charging,  or misleading  customers about 
what they were paying. Ive taken this into account.
Other bars  knowing that others may have a less salubrious reputation   have taken 
steps to make sure they have as much evidence as possible to present when 
Ref: DRN84947244payments are disputed. These have included pictures which  clearly  show what  
customers have been buying.
Mr S has told us himself that its possible he did enter his PIN whenever the terminal  was 
presented to him so I dont think its a stretch to say  under the law  he consented to the 
transactions. Because of this, MBNA  had an obligation to follow Mr Ss instruction. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have  had a closer look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the transfer.
But in fact its clear that MBNA did what Id have expected  here. As soon as the first large-
value out of character transaction was attempted, they texted an alert to Mr S. It was only 
when he confirmed this was him, that this transaction was processed.  I dont  really  think Id 
expect them to have  done more. I appreciate Mr S doesnt think he responded to the text 
message himself but whether  he did or not, I can see why MBNA then did allow the 
transaction to be processed.
On balance I believe Mr S consented  to these payments  potentially under  duress   and 
therefore theres no basis for me to ask MBNA  to refund him.
MBNA gave  Mr S a cheque for £50 as a gesture of goodwill as theyd not dealt with his 
complaint in a timely manner. He never cashed  that cheque but I believe MBNA re-issued 
this last year.
Mr S has also highlighted the fact he paid an annual  fee of £150  to MBNA for use of this 
(and a matching) card. MBNA closed his account. They said this was in light of what  was 
discovered during  their investigation. As Ive demonstrated above I dont believe that Mr S 
tried to con MBNA in any way (which is what they imply). I believe this was unduly harsh but 
appreciate they say this is in line with their terms and conditions. MBNA say Mr S got the 
benefit of bonus miles  transferred to his account but Im satisfied the annual  fee covers  other  
account services which  he wouldnt have got any benefit from. Ive considered MBNAs point 
Mr S benefitted from bonus miles but I dont think this is the only aspect  covered  by the 
annual fee. 
I am asking  them  to repay this fee on a pro rata (per month)  basis.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  MBNA  Limited  to repay  Mr S for 
the unused portion of his annual fee of £150  on a pro rata basis.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8494724