K822xComplaint 
Miss R has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy each year. Miss R feels the policy was mis-
sold to her at the outset.  She is now unable to move insurer, and is forced to pay the 
increased premiums if she wants to continue to have  cover for her pet.
Background
Miss R took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with RSA and has renewed it each year.  In 
2009 Miss R paid £173.28 for her policy. The premium has increased each year and in 2019 
the renewal premium was substantially  higher  at £6,271.99.
Miss R complained to RSA about  the unexpected  increases  in her premium. It has since 
offered to pay her £1,500 compensation and reduce her 2019 renewal premium  to that she 
paid for her policy when  it renewed in 2018.
Our investigator looked at Miss Rs complaint and thought  the offer made  by RSA was fair in 
the circumstances, so she didnt think it should have to do anything further to resolve 
Miss Rs complaint.
Miss R didnt agree. She said her policy had been mis-sold and that the compensation 
offered should  be increased to cover the premiums she has paid for the policy. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Miss R took out, will continue to cover  any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
I understand Miss R would like some  clarity  over the direction  her premiums are likely  to go 
in the future. It isnt possible for RSA to provide an exact amount until renewal, as the 
premium charged is calculated on different factors that include events that take place 
throughout the year the policy is in place. But given the historic increases Miss Rs premium 
has seen I think its unlikely she will be offered the policy at a lower price from renewal.
Miss R has told us she wasnt made  aware  of the increases her premium  was likely to see 
over the duration  she had the policy. And I agree, I dont  think  RSA did enough to make the 
potential long-term  costs clear to Miss R. RSA has accepted the information  it gave Miss R 
about the policy wasnt as clear as it should  have been. And RSA has offered to pay her 
Ref: DRN89974442£1,500 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused as a result of this. RSA 
has also offered to reduce Miss Rs premium  for 2019, to that she paid in 2018. 
Miss R has told us shes not happy  with the offer RSA has made. If she was given better  
information, she could  have taken a similar  policy with another  provider at a lower overall 
cost. She is now forced to continue paying  the increased premiums,  as no other insurer  will 
cover her pets  conditions. Miss R feels the continued increases  to her premium  are unfair 
and unsustainable.
Miss R would like insurers  to have  a legal responsibility to provide sample  projections  to 
customers that give them a better  understanding of what their policy is likely to cost over 
time.  
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost,  or impose legal 
responsibilities upon it. I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and as we are not the regulator  thats  not my role. So I cant  say the cost of 
Miss Rs policy  is too high, she should have  been charged less for the policy or that she 
should be charged less in the future.
More information  about the long-term  cost of insurance would be beneficial for customers 
when making important decisions about the policies they are agreeing  to. This is especially 
important when customers  intend  to continue with the policy for the lifetime of their pet, and 
the price changes on an annual basis. But as Ive said above  we are not the regulator so I 
cant ask the business  to operate  in a different way. I can only consider Miss Rs individual  
complaint.
While Miss Rs premium  has seen  significant increases, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So as RSA hasnt treated Miss R differently I cant ask it to charge her 
a lower premium going forwards, or to refund the premiums  she has already paid.
I understand not being told about  the potential increases Miss R was likely to see has 
caused her a significant amount of distress as, due to her pets medical history,  she cant 
find equivalent cover  elsewhere. And the likely continuing increases in the premium  in future 
years mean the policy may become unsustainable.
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Miss R the information she needed to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
If Miss R hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either  had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for all her pets treatment  herself,  or a reduced level of cover, where  she 
would still have found herself in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were no longer 
covered.
Miss R has told us that when she took her policy she was considering  other providers with a 
similar offering.  She has since found that had she taken the alternative cover she would 
have paid less overall. Its impossible  to know what policy Miss R would have ended  up
with  it might have been cheaper,  but it might  also have been more  expensive. But I do
Ref: DRN89974443think its likely she would  have been paying  for some pet insurance. I think its unlikely better 
information about the possible  future costs of the policy would have resulted in Miss R 
paying a significantly  lower amount, or having  cover for ongoing conditions at a fixed  or 
capped premium  this type of policy isnt generally  available, and providers that offer this 
type of insurance  tend operate  in a similar  way. 
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Miss R has 
experienced. I think it fairly compensates  Miss R for the trouble and upset shes been  
caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Miss R £1,500  compensation and 
reduce her premium for 2019 to that she paid for the policy  the previous year is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8997444