K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
business loan in 2008. Mr P paid a lump  sum for the policy. Mr P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr P  so Ill 
explain the reasons  for my decision. 
When Mr P first brought the complaint to us, he said that hed arranged his loan over the 
phone with his relationship manager  and that the paperwork was sent out to him by post.  
He said that hed been told to sign by the crosses. He noticed the insurance, and when he 
enquired about  it was told that as he was self-employed, Lloyds needed some sort of 
security for repayments if he was ill or involved in an accident.
Mr P then told us that the paperwork was brought to him by his relationship manager while 
he was at work  and he signed the papers  mid-way through  completing a work task. He 
says that he was told hed stand a much better chance of being  accepted  if he took the PPI  
so he signed by the crosses on the application.  Mr P then also confirmed that it was his 
second loan with Lloyds that was completed over the phone,  however  Lloyds  has told us that 
no PPI was taken  with this loan as they had stopped selling the product by this time.
This loan was taken  out over 10 years  ago  and it wasnt the only loan that Mr P took out 
with Lloyds  so Im not surprised that Mr Ps recollections have differed. Because  of this, I 
need to consider what I think  is most  likely to have happened, given what  I know  about the 
complaint. 
Lloyds has provided  copies of paperwork from the time. These seem to have been prepared  
in February, before being signed  by Mr P in March. So its plausible  that Mr P spoke with his 
relationship manager before the paperwork  was posted, or brought  to him at his business  
premises. 
Looking at the paperwork, I can see that the PPI is presented as a separate, optional  
product to the loan  and Mr P has signed to select it. This is separate to his signature for 
the loan itself. Nothing on the paperwork suggests that an application would be more  likely to 
be approved by taking it, or that the bank required self-employed people  to take it out.
So while its possible  Mr P was told differently, I think  he wouldve questioned this at the time 
he came  to sign the paperwork.  And while Mr P may have been busy when it came  to 
signing, he was making an important financial decision   and I wouldve expected  him to 
check over what  he was signing.
Ref: DRN87901902So taking everything in to account,  I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr P didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
remember this as it was so long ago.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said - but these points dont change my decision, and 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr P any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr P the extra he paid each month on the loan because the 
commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI premium  - including  any extra  
Mr P paid if the loan was paid off early. Lloyds  should also pay Mr P 8%* simple interest on 
the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN87901903my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8790190