K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about disclosure of ex-post (after the event) and ex-ante (before  the 
event) investment  costs  and charges  particularly the latter  under the Markets in Financial  
Instruments Directive (MiFID) II. He says Financial Administration Services Limited (trading  
as Fidelity) delayed disclosure of the former and failed to properly disclose the latter,  which 
affected his investment decision  making.
background
Mr Rs submissions to this service also referred to Fidelitys failure to respond to his 
complaint letter of 14 March 2018 and to his request for the complaint issues  to be 
presented to the regulator as breaches  of relevant regulations. 
Fidelity subsequently provided  us with a copy of its final response to the complaint dated 29 
June 2018. One of our investigators considered the complaint, she concluded that it should  
not be upheld  and explained  that if Mr R retained the view that it should be referred to the 
regulator he could  do so directly. The investigator  also said,  in the main, as follows:
A day after Mr Rs initial enquiry (which was on 10 January 2018) Fidelity  contacted  
him and referred  him to information  on charges on its website. She verified the 
information provided within the relevant website link and it appeared to give relevant 
information about costs and charges. Evidence from Fidelity also indicates that it sent 
him ex-ante  costs  and charges information, within pre-sales illustrations, in the post.
Ex-post costs and charges information  was sent to Mr R in April 2019 [covering the 
costs and charges  he incurred  in previous calendar year].  This took place over a year 
after his initial request but the annual nature of this disclosure explains its timing.
Mr R disagreed with this outcome. In the main, he said information  in the website link did not 
include costs and charges of the investment funds (as required by MiFID II); the pre-sales 
illustrations (in terms of ex-ante disclosure) were  provided six weeks  late, they did not 
provide complete information about  funds charges and contained  an error that he spotted  
which caused him to question  reliability  of the information as a whole;  he accepts that ex-
post disclosure was provided to him but ex-ante disclosure remains outstanding and the 
initiative belongs to Fidelity to provide such information before providing  the associated  
investment service. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I too have considered Fidelitys final complaint response of 29 June 2018. It is addressed 
correctly and it responds to the key points raised  in Mr Rs complaint letter.  I consider that 
Fidelity provided a reply  to his complaint. 
My immediate remit is to consider the merits (or otherwise) of Mr Rs complaint, based on its 
facts and relevant  laws and/or regulations, and to provide  a decision. Addressing  or 
enforcing the regulatory issues that Mr R is concerned about is beyond this remit and, as the 
investigator suggested, he has discretion to present his concerns directly to the regulator  if 
he wishes.
Ref: DRN87343582Provision of ex-post costs  and charges  disclosure  no longer appears to be an issue in 
dispute. Mr R accepts  that such disclosure was provided to him. I too note that it was 
provided in April 2019, despite  Mr Rs initial request in January 2018, but it covers the 
calendar year from January to December 2018 so I can understand why the information was 
not presentable until 2019.
Mr R says the ex-ante  costs and charges disclosure given to him was defective because it 
was incomplete in terms of funds  costs and charges, and because  he found  an inaccuracy 
within it. Fidelity  has conceded the inaccuracy. It explained that it relies  on a third party for 
the information presented and that it has since corrected the inaccuracy. I can understand 
why Mr R asserts that if there was one inaccuracy  there could have been others, but I have 
not seen evidence of others.
I do not have evidence of the website link contents at the time Mr R was referred to it, but I 
too have verified  its contents in addition to the contents of Fidelitys summary  guide to 
annual costs and charges  document. The latter  provides  summary  information about 
investment related charges,  some are specific and others (like fund charges) provide a 
general description, but the document appears  to be complete  in its reference to the sorts of 
costs and charges  relevant to the investments service. 
The website link has three main  tabs headed   Fees and charges, Service  fees  and 
Fund discounts  each  providing information  relevant  to its heading. The Funds discounts 
tab has a sub-tab that gives access to information about funds and funds charges. Overall 
and on balance, I do not consider that the information presented  in the website  link does not 
meet what  Mr R is entitled to  under  COBS  6.1ZA of the regulators Handbook (which he 
quoted and which relates to the MiFID II disclosure requirement he has referred  to)  in 
terms of funds and funds charges. Information  in the sub-tab  extends to funds factsheets 
with costs and charges  included within them. As I said above, I do not have evidence  of what 
this link contained in January 2018 but I also do not have evidence  to conclude  that it did not 
provide the funds costs and charges information  available within  it now.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 28 March 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8734358