K821x#15complaint
Mrs Z complains that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  her motor 
insurance policy as she hadnt said she was using  it for business  purposes.  
 
background
When she took out the policy online, Mrs Z selected  the option  Social and commuting when 
asked what she used  her car for. The certificate  of insurance she was sent showed the 
policys limitations. One of them was that cover was limited to social, domestic and pleasure 
purposes, plus travel between home  and her permanent place of business.  It said cover for 
business use was excluded. 
Mrs Z worked in a number  of houses,  all of which she regarded as permanent places of 
work. When she reported an incident  to Southern  Rock,  she was open about that. She said 
later that she didnt understand she could only use the car to drive to one place of work. And 
she didnt understand what was meant in the policy by business use. She said she didnt 
carry any tools or business equipment with her, but just drove to several fixed  addresses.  
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Zs complaint. He noted that Southern Rock had 
accepted Mrs Z had made a genuine mistake. It said had she asked for business  cover at 
the start,  it would still have offered  her a policy, but would  have charged  more for it. 
The investigator said Southern Rock shouldnt  have cancelled Mrs Zs policy,  but should 
have increased  her premium. He said shes had to buy a policy that cost much more  than 
the one with Southern  Rock due to the cancellation, so it should refund the difference.  He 
said Mrs Z shouldnt  have  had to pay a cancellation charge, just pro-rata  for the cover  shed  
had. He said Southern Rock should remove any record of the cancellation and give Mrs Z a 
letter saying the cancellation was due to its error.  And he said it should pay her £200 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
Southern Rock said it was entitled to cancel the policy for good cause, which included a 
breach of the policys terms  and conditions. It said Mrs Z had breached  a policy  limitation / 
exclusion. It said she had a duty to ensure she understood the policy  requirement.  Southern  
Rock asked for a review  of the complaint  if the investigator didnt change  his opinion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Z breached the policy terms because  she hadnt  told Southern Rock that she was going 
to use her car for business purposes by visiting several different places of work.
I have to consider  first of all if Southern  Rock  asked a clear question. I think  it did. Mrs Z was 
asked what purpose  she was going to use the car for. I think  the choices open to her were 
also clear.  Mrs Z wasnt going to use it to travel  to a permanent place of work, but intended 
to commute to several places. As she gave the wrong answer to a clear  question,  I think  she 
misrepresented the facts  to Southern Rock. 
An insurer  can only take action if a consumer has made a qualifying  misrepresentation, as 
set out in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). 
Ref: DRN81684782That requires me to decide  whether Mrs Z took reasonable care in replying to the question  
asked by Southern Rock.  I also have  to consider whether it would have made a difference  to 
Southern Rock had she given the correct information at the start. 
I dont think Mrs Z took reasonable care in replying to the question  about what  purpose  she 
intended to use the car for. The wording  said that commuting to a place of business  (not 
places of business)  was included. And Southern Rock has shown that it would have acted 
differently had it known  that Mrs Z drove between several places of business by charging her 
more for the policy.  
The type of action an insurer can take if there has been a qualifying misrepresentation 
depends on whether it was deliberate  / reckless,  or just careless. I dont think  Southern Rock 
has been able to show that Mrs Z acted deliberately or recklessly.  I dont think she intended  
to mislead it, or that she didnt care whether  she misled it or not. But I think she acted 
carelessly in answering  the relevant question.  
I understand why Mrs Z made a mistake. But in my opinion,  if Mrs Z had thought  about  the 
question and the guidance more  carefully, she would have realised that she doesnt  have  a 
permanent place of work.  She has several places  that she attends regularly. She may have 
attended all of them for a long period of time and she may consider  all of them to be 
permanent places of work. But that doesnt  fit the policys definitions. 
In the circumstances here, I dont think it was reasonable for Southern  Rock  to cancel the 
policy. I think Mrs Z acted  carelessly and made a mistake.  So in my view it should  have left 
the policy in place and charged  Mrs Z the correct  premium  for the year.  
In my opinion, to put matters right, Southern Rock should remove any record of the 
cancellation and write to Mrs Z saying the policy was cancelled  due to its error. That should 
prevent her from having to pay higher premiums in the future due to the cancellation. I think 
it should also calculate the difference  between the cost of the Southern  Rock  policy  and the 
cost of Mrs Zs new policy and refund the difference, with interest.  I think Southern Rock 
should also refund the cancellation  charge and any other charge Mrs Z was asked to pay - 
other than for time on cover - with interest.  
Mrs Z was upset  by Southern Rocks  decision to cancel the policy. In her view, she was 
being accused of dishonesty  something she thought was likely  to have a long-term effect 
on her insurance history.  I think she tried hard to explain to Southern Rock what  had 
happened and why, providing credible  reasons. She asked it to allow  her to cancel the policy  
- or to charge her the full sum she should have  paid for it. But as Southern  Rock  didnt 
change its decision,  Mrs Z had the inconvenience of finding  new insurance, plus the high 
cost of paying for it. She also had the worry of the long-term effects of a cancellation on her 
record. Taking everything into account, I dont think its unreasonable to require Southern 
Rock to pay Mrs Z a moderate  sum in compensation for distress and inconvenience.      
Ref: DRN81684783my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Southern  Rock  Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Remove any record of the cancellation
Write  to Mrs Z stating that the policy was cancelled due to Southern  Rocks error
Calculate the difference in price between the cancelled  policy  and the replacement 
policy and refund that sum to Mrs Z.
Refund any sum charged to Mrs Z on cancellation, other than for time on cover 
Add interest to the two refunds above, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date 
of the payment or charge and the date of settlement
Pay Mrs Z £200 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
If Southern Rock thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mrs Z how much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8168478