K820x#14complaint
Mr C doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 2 September 2019. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  its 
fair for RBS to use Mr Cs PPI compensation to reduce monies owed and left unpaid when 
his trust deed came  to an end.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision. It says it has nothing to add.
Mr C has confirmed that hes received my provisional decision.  
I havent received  a written reply. But Ive listened  to a conversation Mr C had with one of 
our adjudicators. 
Essentially, he says RBS agreed to accept less than it was owed, and he feels like its gone  
back on its word.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS may have accepted the proposed terms of the trust deed  or at least, not objected. 
But Mr C then chose to make a complaint about  something that happened  before the trust 
deed was granted. 
I dont think RBS has gone back on its word. Instead, its simply responded to Mr Cs 
complaint by pointing out that he borrowed, and now wont  repay a lot of money  and 
significantly more than he paid for PPI. So it doesnt think  it should have to pay Mr C any 
compensation. 
I dont think thats  unfair in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN81217722my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Cs PPI compensation  to reduce the monies  owed 
and left unpaid  when his trust deed  came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81217723copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr C doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr C has had a number of loans with RBS.
Below, Ive included some  basic  information  about the loans that are relevant to this complaint.
Loan  ending  8419 (Loan 1): 23 August 2001-13 February 2002
Loan  ending  6471 (Loan 2): 11 February 2002-16 December 2002
Loan  ending  1335 (Loan 3): 16 December 2002-20  August 2003
Loan  ending  8803 (Loan 4): 20 August 2003-6 July 2004
Loan  ending  9919 (Loan 5): 6 July 2004-
After Loan 1, each loan refinanced the preceding  loan.
With Loans  1, 2 and 3, RBS sold Mr C a PPI policy.
In 2014, Mr C complained  to RBS that the PPI policies were mis-sold  and on 21 May 2014, RBS 
upheld his complaint. It offered to refund everything hed paid for PPI and pay simple interest (at 8% 
per year) on the extra  hed paid, from the date of each  payment.
However, in 2011, Mr C had granted a trust deed  which  appears to have become a protected  trust 
deed  for his creditors. 
A protected trust deed  is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called  sequestration in Scotland).  It is 
a legally-binding  agreement between a consumer  and his creditors,  which  is administered by a 
trustee. The consumer transfers his property to the trustee, who has the power to collect and realise 
assets, and distribute the estate among  the creditors according to their respective  rights and 
preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold PPI policy  is, as an asset,  usually vested in  or 
transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A trust deed will invariably include 
provisions relating to the discharge of the consumer  from his debts, the restoration to him of any 
surplus, and the discharge of the trustee.
Mr C was discharged from his trust deed in or around December 2011.
RBS wants  to use the PPI compensation  in partial  payment of monies owed  and left unpaid when the 
trust deed came to an end. Mr C doesnt think this is fair.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
Ref: DRN81217724(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry  practice at 
the relevant  time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Should I look into this complaint?
RBS says I cant consider this complaint. It says it is out of jurisdiction because  Mr C accepted its 
offer in full and final settlement of his complaint.  And it has sent me copies of the settlement forms 
Mr C signed.
This complaint isnt out of jurisdiction. Theres nothing in the rules that says I cant  consider a 
complaint if the consumer  has accepted an offer.  But the rules say I can choose not to consider a 
complaint if I think there are compelling reasons why it would be inappropriate  to do so.
Ive carefully considered the point RBS had made. But I think  that when Mr C accepted the offer, he 
did so in the belief that his accounts with RBS no longer existed because hed been discharged  from 
his trust deed.
Given the legal uncertainty around whether or not an account survives after a trust deed has ended, I 
dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss this complaint without considering its merits.
As RBS has upheld Mr Cs complaint that the PPI policies  were mis-sold, I dont need to decide 
whether or not they were.  And Mr C hasnt  said the amount of compensation offered isnt fair. So all 
thats left for me to decide is whether or not its fair for RBS to use his PPI compensation in partial  
payment of a debt from which he was discharged in 2011.
Is it fair for RBS to use Mr Cs PPI compensation in partial payment of a debt from which he was 
discharged in 2011?
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
The relevant law in this case is Scots law.
The Supreme Court  has recently  clarified the effect  of a trust deeds  termination  on the final 
distribution of the estate.
In Dooneen Ltd (t/a McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018] UKSC  54, the Supreme  Court 
unanimously held that a consumer, and not the trustee,  was entitled to his PPI compensation  because  
his standard form trust deed  was terminated on the final distribution  of the estate, which had taken  
place before  either the consumer or the trustee knew of the potential PPI claim.
In this case, its not clear to me that Mr C and his trustee didnt know about  the potential PPI claim 
before the trust deed  was terminated. Mr C has sent me a copy  of a letter he received from his 
independent financial  advisor dated 28 March  2012, which says a named business  is pursuing  
possible PPI mis-selling  claims  the same business that helped Mr C with his trust deed.  That said,  I 
dont think it makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint, so I dont think  I need to make a 
finding on this point or say more about it.
Theres an ongoing court case thats also relevant. The Inner House of the Court of Session will 
shortly hear an appeal from the Sheriff Appeal Court in a case very similar to this complaint.
Ref: DRN81217725In Donnelly v Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1, the consumers protected trust deed 
came to an end in December  2013 when the trustee paid a final dividend. The business  was not paid 
in full  and said it was still owed more  than £20,000 after it had received the dividends  paid under  the 
trust deed. In early 2014, the business upheld  the consumers PPI complaint. But it used her 
compensation (about  £10,000) to reduce the unpaid debt.  (Specifically,  the business pleaded 
compensation or set-off, by application of the principle of balancing of accounts in bankruptcy.)
The court  relying on the decision of the Inner House  in Dooneen,  which was subsequently affirmed 
by the UK Supreme Court and which Ive mentioned  above   held that the business couldnt plead 
compensation or set-off of an extinguished  debt against the consumers claim. In other words, it said 
the business couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt from which she was 
discharged when her trust deed came to an end.
The business  has appealed this decision  to the Inner House.
I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, and 
on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are the same as those in this 
case, then RBS might not, in court,  be able to successfully plead  set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of 
Mr Cs complaint.
And I simply  do not think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr C his PPI compensation  when he 
borrowed lots of money from RBS and now wont ever repay  it.
It may be helpful to provide  some context.
Mr Cs PPI compensation is just under  £3,200. He owed RBS just under £23,200  when his trust deed 
came to an end. That he was discharged from this debt does not, in my opinion, make  a difference  to 
whats fair.
Put simply, I think it would be manifestly unfair to tell RBS to pay back the extra  Mr C paid for PPI 
(with simple  interest) when he doesnt now have to pay back  the many thousands of pounds  he 
borrowed.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think it is fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Cs 
PPI compensation to reduce the monies  owed  and left unpaid when his trust deed came to an end.
So unless the comments and information I get by 2 October  2019 change my mind, I wont tell it to do 
anything.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8121772