K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK plc closed his account  without warning  and placed  a 
CIFAS marker  against  his name. CIFAS  is the UKs  fraud  prevention agency. 
background
In June 2017 two credits  were paid to Mr As account with Barclays. They  totalled  £3,100.  
On the same  day there were two successful  cash machine withdrawals totalling £500, as 
well as other failed  attempts to withdraw cash, make  card purchases and obtain an account  
balance. 
Barclays identified that the credits  paid into Mr As account were  fraudulent.  The holders of 
the accounts from which theyd been  made  hadnt  authorised them. Barclays closed the 
account and placed a CIFAS marker against  Mr As name. 
Mr A said he was abroad at the time and that he knew nothing  about the payments into the 
account or the cash machine withdrawals.  He thought it was unfair that Barclays had acted 
in the way it had. 
Mr A referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator agreed  with Barclays. He 
noted that whoever made the withdrawals would have needed Mr Bs genuine card and PIN, 
but the card hadnt been reported as lost or stolen. Even though Mr B suggested  his card 
had gone missing, there was no explanation as to how anyone  else could have known his 
PIN.   
The investigator also noted that, around  the time of the transactions,  there were a number of 
successful log-ins to Mr Bs account, both by mobile app and online. He explained that a 
significant amount  of information would have been needed to do that and concluded that the 
account was being monitored at the time the transactions were being made. 
The investigator concluded that the withdrawals hadnt been made by someone who stole  
the card or found it by chance. Either Mr A made them or worked with someone else who 
made them. 
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings and asked  that they be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions and for similar reasons. 
Indeed, there isnt a great deal to add to what the investigator said. The cash machine 
withdrawals were made using Mr As genuine  card and PIN. It wasnt  until after the disputed  
payments that Mr A suggested  hed lost the card, but theres  no reasonable explanation as 
to how anyone could  have found  out the PIN. 
Accessing the account online would have required use of the banks  PIN sentry  system, 
which would in turn require  the genuine card and PIN or use of the banks mobile app on a 
device registered  to the account. Alternatively, it would require a password and memorable 
information. 
Ref: DRN85816262Use of the mobile app would require the device used to be registered  and verified, again 
using the PIN sentry device  and codes. Its likely whoever was monitoring the account  was 
also involved  in the cash machine withdrawals.  I think its very likely in the circumstances 
that Mr A was far more involved than he has said. 
I accept that Mr A may not have  made  the transfers  to the account  himself, or made the 
withdrawals. He may not have benefited, and its possible he was an unwitting victim; hes 
hinted that he was. But I share the investigators view that he must  have been aware of what 
was happening and helped to facilitate  it. 
I also share the investigators view that, in the circumstances, Barclays  had enough 
evidence to make a formal complaint to the police and that it was therefore, not inappropriate 
to place a CIFAS marker against  his name.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank plc to do anything  further  to resolve 
Mr As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8581626