K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the time it took for Elderbridge Limited to investigate  her concerns 
that her signature was forged  on a secured loan.
background
In 2006, a lender granted Mrs S and her ex-partner (who Ill call Mr W) a joint loan secured 
against their jointly owned  property. 
In July 2015, Mrs S told the lender that Mr W had forged her signature  when applying for the 
loan. She wanted  the lender to put a hold on the account. The lender asked for further 
information before it would consider  this.
Later in 2015,  Mr W was charged with several  offences, including fraud. The lender therefore  
put the account on hold,  until the hearing.   
In December 2015, the lender transferred the loan to Elderbridge. Like the original lender, 
Elderbridge wanted to wait for the outcome of the court hearing before  making  a decision 
regarding Mrs Ss allegation of fraud.
In January 2016, Mrs S told Elderbridge the property was on the market. Later that year,  her 
solicitor asked Elderbridge to consent  to the property sale as there wouldnt be enough  funds 
from the sale proceeds to repay the balance  owed. Elderbridge consented to the sale, After 
the property was sold, Mrs S and Mr W used the equity to repay Elderbridge some of what 
was owed, leaving a shortfall of around £5,000.
At a court hearing  in 2016, Mr W pleaded guilty to one of the charges against him. However, 
the charge of fraud remained on file and wasnt considered by the court.  
In December 2017, Mrs S contacted Elderbridge again about her allegation of fraud.  
Elderbridges fraud investigation team started  to look into the matter.  
Then in May 2018, Elderbridge told Mrs S that it accepted she hadnt  applied for the loan. It 
said it had removed her from the loan account,  and had amended her credit  file to reflect 
this. 
Mrs S says Elderbridge didnt investigate her concerns properly when it took over the loan 
from the original lender  in December 2015. And that the delays in Elderbridge  accepting  she 
was the victim of fraud resulted in the forced  sale of her home, and also meant that 
Elderbridge took her share of the equity from the property sale.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 February  2020.  My provisional  findings were:
Its clear  and quite understandable that Mrs S has very strong feelings about this matter. Im 
conscious that Ive condensed what I dont doubt was a very worrying  time for Mrs S into a 
short narrative above. That reflects  that our service,  wherever possible, aims  to be informal. 
But Im satisfied that Ive captured the essence of what happened, as far as it relates to this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN88048202Delays
Mrs S says that Elderbridge caused unacceptable delays when investigating her concerns 
that she was the victim  of fraud, and its actions resulted in the property being sold. 
Elderbridge took over the loan account  in December 2015. Ive therefore  only considered 
what happened after this date. 
When Elderbridge  took over the loan, Mr W had been charged with fraud, but hadnt  yet had 
a court  hearing.  Given that Elderbridge thought the fraud charge was going to be considered  
by a court, I think it was reasonable for Elderbridge to delay making any findings  in respect 
of the fraud allegation until the court had reached  a decision. 
When the case went to court  in 2016, Mr W pleaded guilty  to one of the charges against him, 
but not the fraud charge. That charge remained on file, and a finding wasnt made  on this by 
the court. 
Ive looked at Elderbridges  call records, and I cant see any record of Mrs S informing 
Elderbridge after the court case that Mr Ws hearing had taken place and that a finding 
hadnt been made on the fraud charge.  If shed done  so, Elderbridge  could have begun  its 
own investigations into her allegation of fraud. Instead it seems  the first time Mrs S brought  
this to Elderbridges  attention was in December 2017.
After this, Elderbridge  started looking into Mrs Ss concerns.  It then advised  her in May 2018  
that it accepted  she hadnt applied for the loan. It removed her from the loan account (so 
shes no longer  liable for the remaining loan balance) and amended her credit file. 
As Ive said,  I think it was reasonable for Elderbridge to delay its fraud investigation  until the 
court hearing. And as Mrs S apparently didnt make Elderbridge aware of the outcome of the 
court case  for some time, I dont think Elderbridge  caused any unnecessary  delays when 
investigating her allegation of fraud.
Repayment of the loan
When the property  was sold, all the equity from the sale was paid to Elderbridge.  However, 
this didnt cover the outstanding balance of the loan, and there  remained  a shortfall owed  of 
around £5,000.
Mrs S thinks  that because Elderbridge has now accepted she was a victim of fraud, she 
should be entitled to half the equity from the property that was paid to Elderbridge.  
As the loan was secured  against the property,  that meant Elderbridge  had a legal charge 
over that property. Even if Elderbridge had established much earlier that Mrs S had been the 
victim of fraud  and that Mr W was the sole debtor - because  the property title was in joint 
names, that means  Elderbridge would have been entitled to require Mrs S and Mr W to sell 
their jointly owned  property in order to recover the debt. If that had happened,  Mrs S would 
have been in the same position as she is now in  in other words, the property would have 
been sold, and the total equity paid to Elderbridge. 
Having said that, Elderbridge didnt  require Mrs S and Mr W to sell the property. That 
decision was made by Mrs S and Mr W before the court hearing had even taken place, as I 
understand the mortgage lender intended to repossess the property if it wasnt sold.  
Ref: DRN88048203In any event, regardless of the reason that the property was sold,  Im satisfied Elderbridge 
was entitled to recover what was owed to it by Mr W when the property was sold. 
There remains an outstanding balance on the loan following  the property sale. This is now 
unsecured debt and Elderbridge has removed Mrs S from the loan account (and amended  
her credit file), so that Mr W is solely responsible  for repaying this debt. Given  that 
Elderbridge accepts Mr W is the actual debtor, I think this decision was reasonable. 
Contact with Mrs S to repay the loan
 
Our investigator noticed that Elderbridge had contacted Mrs S following the property sale to 
try and arrange payment for the outstanding balance.  Our investigator recommended that 
Elderbridge pay Mrs S £150 compensation for this. 
Ive looked at the call notes, and I see that Elderbridge  called Mrs S several times about 
repayment of the outstanding balance. Each time,  it seems Mrs S advised Elderbridge that 
Mr W was responsible for the repayments,  and on one occasion even reminded Elderbridge 
that shed notified the original lender that Mr W had fraudulently taken out the loan. 
Given that Elderbridge  was already  aware of Mrs Ss allegation of fraud against Mr W, and 
that the account had been  placed on hold before the property sale,  I agree with our 
investigator that Elderbridge shouldnt have pursued Mrs S for the remaining balance after 
the property had been sold until its fraud investigation had been completed. I think these 
phone calls would have  caused Mrs S unnecessary worry and upset, particularly given that 
we now know she was a victim of fraud. 
Taking this into account, I intend to require Elderbridge to pay Mrs S £300 compensation for 
the upset it caused by pursuing Mrs S for the debt, when it shouldnt have done.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
Both parties  responded to say they accepted my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, since  both parties have 
accepted my provisional findings, I see no reason to change  these. 
Ref: DRN88048204my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. I require Elderbridge Limited to pay 
Mrs S £300  compensation, for the reasons given in my provisional decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8804820