K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a further advance mortgage application Mr and Mrs H made to 
Santander UK Plc. Theyre  unhappy  that Santander wouldnt lend them  the money they 
wanted for debt consolidation.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  with Santander and wanted to borrow more money. They  said 
they were going  to use the money  to pay off some  of their debts which  would then reduce 
their outgoings. Because Santander  turned their application  down  they say they were  forced  
to remortgage to a different lender which meant they incurred a large  early  repayment 
charge (ERC) on their Santander mortgage.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the application failed Santanders 
internal credit score, and the ERC  was correctly charged. Mr and Mrs H disagreed and so 
its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs H wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H feel Santander treated them unfairly.  But its not my role to tell 
lenders how much money to lend to particular  consumers. Lenders are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly;  it isnt to substitute my judgement  for the banks. In 
this case, Santander applied its lending  rules to Mr and Mrs H. It also reviewed its decision 
to refuse  to lend to Mr and Mrs H. Ive looked  at the information recorded by Santander and I 
cant see anything there thats incorrect.
Mr and Mrs H have said they made two applications that were turned down; the first for 
£35,000 and the second for £20,000.  They say the second application  was mis-keyed at 
£35,000 which is why it was turned down. Ive considered this point carefully but Im not 
persuaded by it. Whilst I acknowledge  reference  was made to this in Santanders  final 
response letter its not supported by the documentary  evidence. I can see that two 
applications were  made,  but the information  indicates the first was for £30,000 and the 
second was for £35,000. 
The £30,000  application  (in April 2017) was declined. It was appealed by Mr and Mrs H on 
the basis there was further income that hadnt been taken into account.  That application was 
left that it would be resubmitted once  Mr and Mrs Hs accounts had been finalised to show  
the extra income. The £35,000  application (in August  2017) was also declined.  Mr and Mrs H 
didnt appeal  that decision,  and nothing further  happened until they redeemed the mortgage 
in early 2018 and raised a complaint.
Whilst its possible there should have been a third application, this time for £20,000, I cant  
see any evidence to support that. That said, even if there should  have been  a £20,000 
Ref: DRN86724142application its highly unlikely that would have been  accepted as the £35,000 application 
screen print shows it was declined due to Santanders internal credit  score,  not for 
affordability reasons.  If it was an affordability  issue then it would have returned a decline for 
affordability reasons  and suggested a (lower) maximum sum that could be lent.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr and Mrs H are the ones bringing the 
complaint against  Santander, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Hs version needs to be 
more likely than Santanders version; not just as likely. Having  considered everything I cant  
say Mr and Mrs Hs version (in that there  should have been a £20,000  application and that 
would have been accepted) is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to 
uphold their complaint.
Santanders internal credit  scoring system is commercially sensitive, so its not possible to 
tell Mr and Mrs H exactly why it wasnt willing to lend them  any more money. But generally  
credit scoring criteria  looks  at what Id call credit behaviour and a lender is trying  to 
decipher the level of risk. For example, if a debt consolidation loan is granted,  but the 
original debt either isnt repaid or is immediately built back  up, then that could cause 
affordability concerns.  Here Mr and Mrs H admit  that they thought  theyd build the debt back 
up as they had some immediate family  concerns (which I wont  go into to protect their 
privacy) that theyd need to spend  significant sums on.
Mr and Mrs H asked what has changed since they took the mortgage out in 2013, as then 
they had a larger mortgage and smaller  income.  Thats easily answered, the Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR) took effect  in April 2014  and that brought  in significantly tighter 
regulations for mortgage lending. Its not at all unusual for a borrower  to find that lending that 
might have been agreed pre-MMR  wouldnt  have  been approved post-MMR. When deciding  
whether to lend more  money, lenders have to apply the current  mortgage rules. A lender has 
to look at all the information about  a consumer and decide if its willing to grant the mortgage  
by reference to its lending criteria. Just because a different lender was willing to lend more  
money to Mr and Mrs H doesnt mean Santander was wrong to turn their application down.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672414