K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that Allianz  Insurance Plc declined  a claim under their property 
owners insurance policy for accidental damage  to their roof.
background
Mr and Mrs C made  a claim to Allianz  after their roof partly collapsed. They said the roof 
had been letting in water and that had caused  a main roof truss to become rotten.
Allianz declined  the claim.  It said the damage  to the roof had happened gradually  and their 
policy didnt cover them for damage  caused by gradual deterioration.
Mr and Mrs C didnt think that was fair as they werent aware  of the issue.  They said there 
was no sign of water getting  in. They  brought  their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold it. He thought Allianz was entitled to decline the claim under the 
terms of the policy.
As Mr and Mrs C didnt  agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I understand Mr and Mrs Cs disappointment about their claim because  for a long time 
it wouldnt have been at all obvious to them that the water damage was happening.  Allianz  
agreed that they wouldnt have known until it was too late to prevent the damage to the roof. 
Its not in dispute  that the damage to the roof truss  was accidental.  The policy doesnt define 
accidental damage,  so Ive considered what the ordinary, everyday meaning  is. I think a 
reasonable definition is that its something  unforeseen and unintentional . But the policy 
doesnt cover every  sort of damage that might  happen  to their building even if it is 
accidental. As is usual,  there are a number of exclusions. These exclusions include damage 
caused by or consisting of gradual  deterioration.
Allianz said that it wasnt clear why the roof truss had deteriorated  but it had definitely 
happened over a long time. In the nature of things rot is something that happens  gradually.  If 
a claim is being considered under  the accidental damage section of the policy,  it doesnt 
matter whether the consumer should  have  been  aware of the damage  or not  if the damage 
was caused gradually then we think its fair for an insurer to rely on a gradual  damage 
exclusion to decline a claim. Thats to protect  against the insurance policy  paying  claims that 
are really  maintenance  issues that any homeowner is liable for. So, regardless  of the fact 
that Mr and Mrs C had no reason to be aware of the damage until part of the roof collapsed, 
I think it was fair for Allianz to apply the exclusion.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2020.
Ref: DRN87422492Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742249