K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her credit  card PPI (payment 
protection insurance) policies when she took out dual credit  cards.
background
Mrs W took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the dual cards by completing a 
postal application  form in February 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken  
this into account  in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Barclays says that the application was made by post, with no input from any of its advisers. 
Mrs W says that she filled out the form at home  and then returned it by post, but that the 
form was sent to her following a phone conversation with Barclays,  and that she competed 
the form following  the advice that she had been given over the phone.  
As there is a discrepancy in what the parties are saying, I have based my decision on the 
evidence that we do have and what I think is most likely to have  happened.
Mrs W says she felt that the card application wouldnt be accepted  if she didnt take out the 
PPI. Shes said she asked if it would make  a difference if she didnt  take out the insurance 
and was advised Barclays would recognise she wanted to make  sure any payments  were 
met if anything should happen.
The sale happened a long time ago, and applying for a credit card is not usually a 
particularly memorable event. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs Ws recollection of events  
has faded. If there was a phone call, Im not persuaded  that what Mrs W says she was told 
could be construed  as being advised or pressured into taking out the PPI. Overall  I think  Mrs 
W made  the decision to take out the PPI at the point that she was completing the paper 
application form.
Looking at the application form,  there is a separate section for PPI which contains Yes and 
No boxes to either  select  or decline the policy. It looks like Mrs W ticked the No box before 
crossing that out and ticking the Yes  box instead.  So it seems she gave some consideration 
to whether or not she wanted the policy. In her complaint form to Barclays,  Mrs W said: I 
wanted to be sure my payments would be covered if a situation arose that I could not pay 
back the monthly premiums..  So I think Mrs W had an interest in the policy  and decided  to 
buy it, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing  so.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that Barclays  advised  Mrs W to buy the policy. 
So it didnt need to ensure  that it met her needs.  But it did need to provide her with enough 
Ref: DRN84162752information for her to be able to make  an informed choice  about whether or not the policy  
was right for her.
I think Mrs W would have known something  about the policy   that it would pay her credit 
card repayments if she were unable to work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment   
because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about 
it.
Mrs W would  have received sick pay from her job, but the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs W would have received full pay for. Mrs W 
has told us she had some  savings at the time of the sale. Shes provided a statement for a 
savings account  for 1994  95. However  Im unable to tell from this how much  was in the 
account in February  1995. Besides, Mrs W has said that she was saving  for a wedding. 
Shes also said that she was saving to buy a house. So any savings that she did have were  
earmarked for a particular purpose. Having the policy would have allowed her to retain  these 
rather than having  to use them to make her credit card repayments. So I think  that Mrs W 
had a need for the policy and could have benefitted  from it.
Its possible that Barclays could have provided  more  information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs W wasnt  affected  by any of the main 
exclusions, for instance she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition.
Mrs W says she wasnt  told that there was an excess period on the policy. She says she 
tried to make a claim  but couldnt  as she wasnt  off work for long enough. All policies have 
some sort of waiting period, typically 30 days.  But beyond  the waiting period, the policy had 
the potential to pay out for up to 12 months, which would have been  helpful at what  would 
have been a difficult time. So I dont consider that knowing about  the waiting period would 
have put her off taking  out a policy that had a greater longer term benefit.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs W has said, but as I think  she had an interest in 
the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information  would  have caused  her 
to change her mind.
This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs W about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN84162753my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs W any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 September 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8416275