K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed  his account and placed  a CIFAS marker 
against his name, as a result of which he cant open  another bank account. CIFAS is a fraud  
alert service.  Mr S has been assisted in bringing  this complaint by his mother.
background
Mr S had a current account with HSBC. On 29 May 2018 a payment of £2,900  was made  
into his account.  That money was withdrawn  over the following two days. Two cash machine 
withdrawals were made in the early hours of 30 May and a further withdrawal  the largest  
was made  on the afternoon of 1 June 2018. 
HSBC was contacted by another bank, saying that the payment  to Mr Ss account had been 
fraudulent; it was the result of a scam.  It suspended Mr Ss account before closing it and 
recording a CIFAS marker against his name.  
Mr S said that he knew nothing about the payment to his account  or the withdrawals from it. 
He didnt think it was fair that HSBC had placed  the CIFAS marker against his name. 
Mr S explained that he had been to a party  on the evening of 29 May with a work colleague, 
whom he didnt know particularly well. He left at about 2am on 30 May. The next day he 
realised he didnt have  his jacket with him; his wallet,  containing  his bank card,  had been in 
the pocket. He managed to track down his colleague, however, who returned the jacket the 
following morning, 31 May. Mr S says his PIN was kept in his wallet with the card.
HSBC didnt agree that it should  remove the CIFAS  marker, and Mr S referred  the matter to 
this service. One of our investigators  considered it, but didnt think  HSBC had acted 
incorrectly. Mr S didnt  accept the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman  review 
the case.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusion as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
I think it most likely  that the fraudulent payment to Mr Ss account and the withdrawals that 
he says he doesnt  recognise are connected. That is, whoever arranged the payment must 
have known that they or an accomplice would  be able to withdraw the money as well. 
The payment to Mr Ss account was credited at around 7.30pm on 29 May. Mr S says he 
mislaid his bank card at a party  later that same  evening. He cant  have known that would 
happen though  and whoever arranged  the payment earlier in the day certainly cant  have 
done. But withdrawals  were made using the card at around 2am the following morning. 
Mr S says too that his card was returned to him on the morning of 31 May; hes unsure of the 
exact time,  as he says his colleague  left his jacket in the porch  of his house. I note however 
that the final withdrawal  from Mr Ss account was made the following day; so either Mr S is 
mistaken about when  his jacket was returned,  or he was involved  in the withdrawals.  In any 
event, I think its unlikely  that a fraudster who had Mr Ss card and knew  his PIN (and had 
already accessed  his account) would  have returned the card to him. 
Ref: DRN86305792Ive considered very carefully what Mr S has said about what  happened and how much he 
knew about the payment to his account  and the withdrawals from it. Im afraid however that I 
dont find his account of events at all convincing.  I think  it much more likely  that he knew 
rather more about  them than he has told HSBC or this service. In the circumstances, I think 
it was reasonable  for HSBC to act in the way it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything  further  to resolve  
Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8630579