K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim he made on an insurance policy  he held with 
Cover Genius Limited. The policy was designed to refund to him certain charges and 
excesses he had to pay in the event  of an incident  with his rental car while  abroad.  Mr R is 
unhappy that his claim  under the policy hasnt been  paid.
background
Mr R booked a car rental for when he and his family  were on holiday through a UK rental 
company in the autumn  of 2018. Alongside the rental booking he also took out a policy to 
cover any charges and excesses he might have to pay on the rental  car. The car rental 
company was an appointed representative of Cover  Genius, so the sale was done  on its 
behalf. 
When Mr R and his family  arrived at their holiday destination there  were  problems with the 
provision of a suitable car because of faults  with those offered. The second  car he received 
had rear door handles that were broken. The drivers door handle also broke while  he had 
the car.  When Mr R returned  the car to the rental company it attributed  the new damage to 
Mr R and claimed the deposit detailed in the agreement  €1,700. This was to be used to 
complete repairs and any surplus  would be refunded.
Upon returning  to the UK Mr R contacted the rental company through  which  the overseas 
car rental and insurance policy had been  arranged. He asked for the deposit  to be refunded 
under the insurance policy. The claim was eventually referred to Cover Genius, but the claim 
was not paid. Mr R referred  his complaint  to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2020, a copy of which is attached to, and forms 
part of, this decision. I concluded  that the €1,700 should be refunded to Mr R by Cover 
Genius Limited. 
Mr R accepted my conclusions. Cover Genius  didnt accept the provisional decision,  but it 
did arrange for my award to be paid. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As no further  evidence  has been 
provided, I see no reason  to alter my conclusions.  
However, I note that Mr R has now been paid the amount of my award, and so nothing 
further is payable  following  this decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN80025292provisional decision
date of decision: 10 March 2020
I have considered the relevant information  about Mr Rs complaint. I will look at any more  comments 
and evidence  that I get by 10 April 2020. However, unless the information  changes  my mind, my final 
decision is likely to be along the following lines. 
complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim he made on an insurance policy he held with Cover Genius Limited. 
The policy was designed  to refund to him certain charges  and excesses he had to pay in the event  of 
an incident with his rental car while  abroad. Mr R is unhappy  that his claim under the policy hasnt 
been paid.
background
Mr R booked a car rental  for when he and his family  were on holiday through  a UK rental company  in 
the autumn of 2018. Alongside  the rental booking he also took out a policy to cover any charges  and 
excesses he might be have to pay on the rental car. The car rental  company was an appointed 
representative of Cover Genius, so the sale was done on its behalf.  
When Mr R and his family arrived  at their holiday destination there were  problems  with the provision  
of a suitable car because of faults with those  offered. The second car he received had rear door 
handles that were broken.  The drivers door handle also broke while he had the car.  When Mr R 
returned the car to the rental company it attributed the new damage to Mr R and claimed the deposit 
detailed in the agreement   €1,700. This was to be used to complete repairs and any surplus would 
be refunded.
Upon returning to the UK Mr R contacted the rental company through which  the overseas  car rental  
and insurance policy had been arranged. He asked for the deposit to be refunded under the insurance 
policy. The rental company  didnt tell Mr R that it couldnt deal with his claim, nor does it appear that it 
forwarded it to Cover Genius, as would be expected from an appointed representative. 
When he didnt receive a positive response, Mr R raised a claim with his credit card company for a 
chargeback on the basis the car he had been rented  was unfit for purpose. That claim was accepted 
and the cost of the car hire was refunded.
As Mr Rs credit card company agreed to a chargeback, Cover Genius decided there was essentially 
no rental booking and with no booking  there was no insurance policy.  As such, it chose not to 
consider the claim.  
Mr R wasnt  happy with the lack of response from Cover Genius and referred  the complaint  to this 
service.
Cover Genius explained to this service that it considered there  was effectively  no car rental  booking  
(because of the chargeback) and as such there was no insurance policy. It also pointed  out that Mr R 
had not complied with its claim procedure  and had instead told the rental  company (through which he 
arranged the policy) that he wanted to make a claim. It also said that only external damage was 
covered by the policy and as such the claim would have been declined had it been considered.
Mr R confirmed  that he hadnt asked for the insurance  premium to be refunded. He also pointed out 
the rental agreement and the insurance  policy were two completely separate contracts. Mr R then 
provided evidence he only received the chargeback  for the car rental, not the insurance premium.
Cover Genius said as the car rental and insurance  premium had been taken  as one charge, both 
would have all been refunded. So there was no policy in place as effectively no premium had been 
Ref: DRN80025293paid. Furthermore, it explained it didnt provide standalone policies,  so if no rental had been arranged 
no policy could have been arranged. It also considered  that even if the policy were in effect at the 
relevant time,  the claim would have failed because the damage was not covered.
Cover Genius also confirmed that it had been told by the rental  company that it had offered Mr R a 
refund of €1,294 of the €1,700  taken  by the overseas  rental company. It said it had asked the rental  
company for contact details, which  it would  then pass on to Mr R to enable  him to claim the refund.
Our investigator ultimately concluded there was an insurance policy in force  and the claim  should 
have been considered  by Cover Genius. She went on to consider the nature of the claim, given  Cover 
Genius had said the damage Mr R had reported wouldnt be covered by the policy because  it was to 
the interior  of the car. She wasnt  persuaded this exclusion would apply as the damage was to a 
mechanical part of the car and so covered. She recommended Cover Genius refund the difference  
between the €1,700 Mr R had been charged and the €1,294 the rental  company had offered to 
refund. 
Cover Genius didnt accept  the investigators view. It repeated that the insurance  policy  could only be 
purchased alongside a car rental  agreement. As its appointed representative the rental company  does 
not sell or distribute standalone  insurance  products, it is impossible that Mr Rs bank wouldnt have 
refunded the cost of the insurance policy. It also said the rental company  had not received a refund  
from Mr R or his bank   one charge was taken from Mr Rs card and one charge was refunded 
following chargeback. It said a fraudulent chargeback cannot be refunded  in part if the customer  is 
claiming the full amount has been debited fraudulently. 
In addition, Cover Genius  said the damaged part of the vehicle  the door lock - could  not be classed 
as anything other  than an interior component. As such damage to it is excluded under  the policy.
Mr R accepted the investigators view. He confirmed in September and November that he hadnt been 
contacted by either  the rental company or Cover Genius about a refund. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly respond to Cover  Genius  comments about Mr R not having followed the correct claims 
procedure. Given the claim was raised  with Cover Genius appointed representative, I am surprised  
that there was no communication between the two companies about  it. Even if a claim  could not be 
forwarded through the appointed representative, I would  have expected it to have told Mr R that he 
had to make  a claim direct and how he could do so. In the circumstances, I dont think  that not using 
the appropriate  claims  process should be held against Mr R.
There has been much  discussion about whether  there  was a car rental  contract  or insurance policy in 
place following the chargeback by Mr Rs credit card company. Irrespective of whether the cost of the 
car rental  contract was refunded, that contract did exist, as did the cars Mr R used  whilst on holiday.  It 
appears that the insurance premium was not refunded as part of the chargeback, but even if it were, 
there was still an insurance policy in place  at the time of the event and the time the claim was notified 
and at that time Mr R had paid the premium in full. The only difference the chargeback including the 
insurance premium  would  make in this situation is that the cost of that premium could reasonably be 
deducted from any settlement. 
I would also make  Cover Genius aware  that chargeback regulations are complex and cover  many 
situations, but it is possible for a credit  card charge to only partially  be refunded.  So it is possible that 
the rental agreement part of the payment was refunded and not that associated with the insurance  
policy. In that situation the rental  company  wouldnt  receive a refund of that amount. From the 
information Mr R has provided,  it would  seem a partial refund of payment was made  in this case.
Ref: DRN80025294So, Mr R had a valid insurance policy  that potentially covered the claim he made.  He has told us that 
he has been  charged  for the breakage  of the door handle mechanism on the drivers door. I have 
seen no independent evidence that is the case and it doesnt  appear Cover  Genius has obtained any 
evidence from the car rental company in this regard.  However, Cover Genius appears to have 
accepted what Mr R has said about the damage. It has then gone on to assess  the claim on that basis 
and determined it would  not be covered. 
As Cover Genius has accepted Mr Rs account of the damage and the deposit taken for him for 
repairs, I see no reason  for this service not to do so too. I will now consider whether the exclusion 
Cover Genius applied to defeat the claim  was appropriately applied. 
The exclusion  for cleaning or damage costs related to the renal vehicles interior  has been quoted by 
Cover Genius to reject the claim. I have considered  this exclusion, but I am not persuaded by it. The 
exclusion is clearly meant to cover what is conventionally referred to as the interior   the internal  
panels, seating, flooring  etc. For the handle to stop working, as Mr R has said, it would  be a fault with 
the door locking mechanism within  the interior of the door. I dont consider that would  reasonably be 
classed as the interior of the car.
The policy wording confirms  it covers  charges arising from the Incident  for damage to the Rental 
Vehicles exterior  or mechanical components . It is then confirmed that locks are covered  by this 
section of the policy.  I am satisfied the damage to the door lock mechanism  would reasonably fall 
under this section of cover.  As such, I can only conclude  Mr R has a valid claim under  the insurance  
policy and any amount he was charged in this regard  should be refunded.
Cover Genius told this service in August 2019 that the rental company would be refunding Mr R 
€1,294. However, it does  not appear that refund has yet been made or even offered to Mr R. It is now 
well over a year since the incident with the car and I think that if a refund was going to be given to Mr 
R surely it would have happened long before now. In the circumstances, I dont consider it appropriate 
to take the reported refund  into account when  determining redress in this case.  So I think its fair that 
Cover Genius settles Mr Rs claim  in full.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am minded to uphold  this complaint. If my conclusions remain the 
same following any further comments from the parties, I will require  Cover Genius Limited  to pay Mr R 
€1,700 in full and final settlement of his complaint.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8002529