K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  about Pinnacle  Insurance Plcs settlement of her pet insurance  claims and 
that it added  exclusions  to her policy. My references  to Pinnacle include its agents.
background
In 2014 Miss P took out pet insurance for her dog, insured by Pinnacle. The policy  gave life 
time cover with a £500 limit for each condition a year and an overall limit of £2,000  a year.
In 2018 Miss Ps dog had a heart problem and was fitted with a pacemaker. She was also 
treated for pyometra  (uterus  infection). 
Initially, Pinnacle wouldnt pay any of the heart condition claim as the policy didnt cover 
pacemakers. Ultimately, Pinnacle agreed to pay for the treatment of the underlying  heart 
condition, but not for the pacemaker. It paid up to the £500 limit for that condition.
Pinnacle wouldnt pay the claim for the uterus infection. The dogs vet notes showed the dog 
had a phantom pregnancy  in 2012. Pinnacle said when  Miss P took out the policy  it had 
asked her about any non-routine vet visits her dog had. Miss P hadnt provided  any 
information. If Miss P had told it about her dogs phantom  pregnancy  it would have added 
exclusions for claims for female genital  problems (reviewable at renewal if spayed) and 
mammary problems (not reviewable). 
Pinnacle added those exclusions with effect  from the start of the policy.  It said the uterus 
infection claim fell under  the exclusion for female  genital problems so wasnt  covered. As the 
dog had subsequently been spayed  it offered to review that exclusion at the August 2018 
policy renewal. Miss P cancelled the policy before renewal.
Pinnacle paid Miss P £150  compensation for her distress and inconvenience due to its 
wrong decision about the heart condition claim and it hadn't responded to one of her letters.  
Miss P complained to us. She and her local and specialist  vets thought Pinnacle should pay 
the uterus infection  claim. She sent letters from both vets. She also wants  Pinnacle to pay 
more compensation.
Our investigator thought Pinnacle  had acted fairly about both claims and compensation.
Miss P disagrees about the uterus  infection claim and wants an ombudsmans  decision.  She 
said she must have missed the relevant  question in the small print. Her vet had 
recommended her dog be spayed  as routine not to prevent any future  health  issue.  Also 
both vets evidence  showed her dogs  phantom pregnancy didnt cause any future  health 
risks so shouldnt result  in the exclusions being  placed on the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN81287652I understand Miss P now accepts Pinnacle  acted fairly in paying her claim for her dogs heart 
condition to the limit of £500 and £150 compensation for her distress and inconvenience in 
respect of the two matters mentioned. For the avoidance of doubt Im satisfied thats a fair 
outcome.
The remaining  issue  for me to decide is whether Pinnacle acted fairly  and reasonably in 
adding the two exclusions to the policy and applying the exclusion for female genital 
problems to decline the uterus  infection claim.
We generally say an insurer can fairly  add an exclusion  to the policy  retrospectively  if:
 the policyholder  didnt  take reasonable care in answering clear questions  asked 
when they bought  the policy, and
 if the insurer had known the correct  information it would have added  the exclusion.
Miss P took out the policy online. Ive seen the application. One of the questions she was 
asked was has your dog seen a vet for a reason other than for annual health  check,  routine 
vaccination or any other preventative care? 
Miss P answered no to that question. However, the vet records show  shed taken her dog to 
the vet in July 2012 for phantom  pregnancy  symptoms with check ups for the same issue the 
following month. 
Miss P says she must have missed the question as it was in the small print. But the 
question was clear  in the application process.  Miss P also says she didnt mention the matter 
because the vet told her she didnt have  to as the phantom  pregnancy  wasnt an indicator of 
future medical problems.  But the question was clear  that a vet visit for any reason, apart 
from the ones listed,  had to be disclosed. 
I think Miss P should have  reasonably  answered  yes to the question. That would have led to 
Pinnacle being told about the phantom pregnancy.
Pinnacles underwriting guidance is that if a dog has had a phantom pregnancy  before the 
policy starts it will add exclusions  for claims for female genital  problems and mammary 
problems.
Ive seen both of Miss Ps vets' evidence. In summary both say there's no evidence that a 
dog's phantom pregnancy  predisposes  a dog to a uterus infection.  One vet says a phantom 
pregnancy isnt an indicator of future disease. Both vets think  the exclusions Pinnacle placed  
on the policy aren't  appropriate.
But the important  point is that its for an insurer to decide what  it will and wont  cover, and on 
what terms. The underwriting guidance  shows the risk Pinnacle  doesnt want  to take if a dog 
has had a phantom pregnancy. It doesnt need  to take Miss Ps vets opinions into account 
on that matter. 
As I think  Miss P was asked a clear  question to which she should  have reasonably  disclosed 
her dog's  phantom  pregnancy Pinnacle  can do as it would have done had it known the 
correct information.  It fairly  added  the two exclusions from the start of the policy to apply 
retrospectively.
Ref: DRN81287653Ive seen the dispute between the parties about  whether  Miss P was advised to spay  her dog 
due to the phantom pregnancy or because to spay was routine advice at that time. The issue 
doesnt make an difference to whether Pinnacle can fairly decline the claim. The exclusions  
were added because  of the underwriting guidance  for the phantom pregnancy,  not whether 
or why the dog was or wasnt  spayed  at that time.
Pinnacle acted fairly in declining the claim for uterus infection as it falls under the exclusion 
for claims  for female genital  problems.  It doesnt  need to pay the claim and theres no basis 
for me to say it must pay Miss P any more  compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8128765