K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  because ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG hasnt paid a cancellation 
claim under their travel insurance policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs K bought an annual travel  insurance  policy in April 2018.  The policy was
underwritten by ERGO.
Unfortunately, Mr K was diagnosed with a serious  illness on 8 May 2018 so Mr and Mrs K
cancelled an upcoming trip and made  a claim under their policy  with ERGO.
ERGO said the claim wasnt covered for two reasons. Firstly  it said although the policy was
bought in April 2018, cover didnt start until 18 May 2018. So ERGO said the claim hadnt
happened while the policy was in force. Secondly  ERGO said Mr and Mrs Ks policy  
excludes claims for medical conditions which are being investigated  when the insurance is 
bought. ERGO said as Mr K had symptoms  of the condition he was ultimately diagnosed 
with in March  2018, the claim wasnt covered under  the policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint and said the implications of the policy  start date on
cancellation cover  hadnt been  made  clear  to Mrs K when the policy was sold.  She also said
shed seen no medical records explaining what a scan Mr K had been  referred  for in March
2018 was in connection with, and no evidence to show under what different  terms (if any)
ERGO wouldve offered  cover if it had been told about this scan.
ERGO didnt  agree,  so the case  was passed  to me. I made my provisional  decision in June 
2019. In it I said:
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ks policy say;
cover under section  1 (Cancellation) starts  at the time that you book the trip or
the first day of the period  of cover as shown  on your Validation Certificate,
whichever is later.
The trip was booked in February  2018 and Mr and Mrs Ks policy validation certificate says
cover starts on 18 May 2018.
This means  anything that happened  before 18 May 2018 isnt covered under the policy.
Mr Ks doctor advised that the trip should  be cancelled  on 8 May 2018. This was before the
policy started and before  ERGO was on risk. This means the claim isnt covered under the
terms and conditions of the policy and I dont  think ERGO has been unfair or unreasonable 
in turning down  the claim.
I cant make  any comment about the sale of the policy here, as ERGO isnt responsible  for
this. The policy was sold by a different business.  If Mr and Mrs K have a complaint about
how the policy was sold then they need  to raise the matter with that business  separately,
which I understand theyve now done.
However I think it would  be fair and reasonable for ERGO to pay compensation to Mr and
Ref: DRN89931162Mrs K for how it handled their claim.  ERGO raised  Mr Ks medical history  as one of the
reasons for declining the claim in its final response  letter. But Im not satisfied if and how
ERGO would have acted  differently in the terms under which it would have  offered cover  if it
had been aware  of additional details about Mr Ks medical history.
I think this had an impact on Mr and Mrs K and caused them  confusion  and frustration. So I
think a payment of compensation  in what we consider to be the moderate band  would  be
appropriate.
So, my provisional decision was that ERGO should pay Mr and Mrs K £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience they experienced. Both ERGO and Mr and Mrs K 
accepted my provisional decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither ERGO nor Mr and Mrs K have made any further comments  or provided any 
additional evidence,  I see no reason  to change my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that ERGO  Reiseversicherung  AG must  pay Mr and Mrs K £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  they experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8993116