K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about Phoenix Life Limited.  She is unhappy with the way it handled 
payments from her Abbey Life pensions. She says there were mistakes  in its reporting to 
HMRC and she received  a tax bill for £13,000. She also says that the service  she received 
was poor.
Mrs H is represented in this complaint.
background
Mrs H complained in 2018. She said that errors in information submitted to HMRC had 
caused her to receive a £13,000 tax bill and also caused an unexpected adjustment  in her 
tax code which led to her net pay being  reduced  by £1,000. This had caused considerable 
stress at a time when her husband was very ill and she found out about the problems whilst 
she was on holiday and so her holiday was spoiled.
Phoenix upheld  the complaint in part. It accepted that it had made  errors  in reporting to 
HMRC which  had caused the change in tax code and so the reduction  in pay. It said these 
issues had been  corrected and so the information with HMRC was now accurate and the tax 
code correct. It accepted  that there  had been  delays in service and in dealing  with the 
complaint.
Phoenix went on to say that there  was nothing  to suggest the tax bill for £13,000 was related 
to any error  it had made.
Phoenix apologised and offered £650  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs H didnt accept and referred her complaint to this service. It was considered  by an 
investigator but he didnt think it should be upheld. He noted  that errors  had been made  in 
reporting to HMRC but ultimately the pension had been taxed correctly. There was nothing  
to link these errors to the tax bill Mrs H received.
The investigator pointed  out that he couldnt  make an award for the impact these errors had 
on Mr H, as he wasnt the policy holder. He noted  his poor health and sympathised but felt 
that the offer of £650  was a fair and reasonable offer in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs H had suffered.
Mrs H didnt agree. Her representative said that there was significant inconvenience which 
wasnt reflected in the offer.  It had taken a long time to resolve the problem, the service was 
poor and a lot of calls had been necessary to resolve things.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked very closely at the evidence and considered  the points that have been made for 
Mrs H and by Phoenix.  Having done  that, Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. I can see that this situation will have caused Mrs H a considerable amount of 
Ref: DRN84683212inconvenience. It will also have been upsetting, particularly when she was also dealing with 
her husbands  poor health.
However, my role is to decide if the offer Phoenix has made is fair in all the circumstances. It 
has accepted  that it made errors  and that these did impact on the tax code that was applied 
to Mrs Hs earnings. But it seems  that any impact  of these errors was corrected and so 
things were put right. Theres no ongoing  issue with HMRC.
Mrs H said that the errors had led to a tax bill of £13,000. I can see that a bill like that would 
come as a great shock but theres  no evidence to show  any direct link between any error  
Phoenix may have  made and that tax bill. So it wouldnt be fair to make any award  for the 
upset caused  by the tax bill itself.
Overall, Im satisfied that the offer Phoenix  has made  is fair. I think  it does properly take into 
account the considerable trouble and upset Mrs H suffered as a direct  result of its errors and 
poor service. I dont make any additional  award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as I think the offer is fair. Phoenix should  pay Mrs H £650 if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8468321