K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide  Building  Society debited  his account with a payment he 
didnt authorise.  This led to an overdrawn balance and Nationwide followed its collections 
process, contacting  Mr W for repayment. He wants Nationwide  to credit his account  with the 
disputed transaction  and to pay him for the distress it caused.
Background
On 17 August 2018, Mr Ws account  was debited with £199.41. This was a card payment to 
a car rental company.  Mr W contacted Nationwide on the same day to tell it he hadnt 
authorised the payment. And that the payment had been made  with a card hed cancelled.
Nationwide credited Mr Ws account while it carried out an investigation. It asked Mr W to 
provide evidence that hed paid the invoice  and evidence that hed tried to resolve the 
dispute with the car rental company. As Mr W didnt  provide this information by the 
requested date, Nationwide re-debited Mr Ws account. He then provided some  information 
which Nationwide was able to use to request a chargeback. It again  credited Mr Ws account 
whilst it continued its investigation  and waited for a response to the chargeback request.
The car rental businesss bank successfully defended  the chargeback and on 16 November 
2018, Nationwide debited Mr Ws account.  But it then raised another chargeback request. 
There was no response to this request so on 18 February 2019  and after hed referred his 
complaint to us - Nationwide credited Mr Ws account with the disputed amount.
The debit on 16 November 2018  led to Mr Ws account balance going  into an unauthorised 
overdraft and his account was passed to the societys collections team.  
Nationwide contacted Mr W on several  occasions to seek  repayment of the overdrawn 
balance and, it says,  to offer support if he was in financial difficulties.
On 24 January 2019, Mr W sent Nationwide a cease and desist letter.  He said the debt 
was in respect of a disputed transaction and he wanted all future contact  from Nationwide to 
be by letter to his home address.
Nationwide paid Mr W £50 for its failure  to log a complaint when he first asked it to which led 
to a delay in its investigation. But Mr W wants compensation for being  contacted while his 
account was overdrawn because of the disputed transaction.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Nationwide had done anything wrong.  It looked like the payment had been pre-authorised, 
which was why it debited  Mr Ws account even though the card had since  been cancelled.  
And she thought  Nationwide  had done  all it could to help, bearing in mind  the only evidence 
Mr W had been able to provide  was an invoice which didnt show hed already paid the sum 
in cash.
Ref: DRN80985012Mr W didnt agree saying, in summary,  that 
The invoice he provided shows a zero balance. Its clear  that he didnt owe any money 
so he wouldnt have authorised the card payment.
The card used had been reported lost.
His cease and desist letter was ignored.
If the merchant  had replied to the chargeback request, the money would never have 
been returned.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The disputed transaction
Mr W reported his card lost on 1 August 2018. The disputed transaction debited  his account 
on 17 August. But the payment had been  pre-authorised  before the card had been reported 
lost. So I dont find there was any obligation  on Nationwide to stop or reject the payment.
When Mr W disputed  the transaction, Nationwide asked him to provide further information. 
He told Nationwide  he had paid the final amount due in cash. He provided  a copy  of the 
invoice which showed it had been settled  in full. There had been a payment of £199.41, but 
the invoice didnt detail how this payment had been  made. It looked to the bank  like this was 
the payment which debited  Mr Ws account  on 17 August.  I understand Mr Ws frustration  
about this. He didnt have  any control over how the business presented  its invoice and he 
couldnt provide  any additional information to evidence hed paid the sum in cash. But, based 
on the evidence  Nationwide had, I dont think it was wrong to re-debit Mr Ws account.
When there was no response  to its second chargeback request, Nationwide  credited Mr Ws 
account. Mr W says if there had been  a response  his money  wouldnt have been  returned. 
But I need to consider  what actually  happened here, rather  than consider what might have 
happened.
Overall, I think Nationwide acted  reasonably  and fairly in response to Mr Ws dispute.
But I find it did take too long to re-credit  Mr Ws account. It told Mr W that if no response was 
received from the merchant by 16 November 2018 it would uphold his dispute  and return the 
money. But it didnt  credit his account until 28 February 2019. Nationwide hasnt  provided  a 
satisfactory explanation  for that delay.  Whilst I cant see the delay caused  Mr W any financial 
loss or difficulty, it would have added to his distress.  So I think  Nationwide  should  pay him 
£50 compensation.
Nationwides collection activity
When Nationwide debited  Mr Ws account, it resulted in an unauthorised overdraft. I would 
expect Nationwide  to refund any charges, but I can see from Mr Ws statements that no 
interest or fees were charged as a result  of the overdraft.
Ref: DRN80985013Mr W says he was contacted by Nationwides collection team for repayment of the 
overdrawn balance. This was when Nationwide hadnt seen evidence  that the payment 
wasnt authorised. So I dont find it was wrong to follow its normal  collection procedures.
Mr W sent it a cease and desist letter on 24 January 2019 asking it to stop all contact, 
other than by post. Nationwide says it didnt receive this letter, but Mr W had put it on notice 
that it would  be sending it. And I cant see that it contacted him about repayment of the debt 
after 24 January  2019.
Response to Mr Ws complaint
Nationwide apologised for the poor level of service  Mr W received  when  he complained as 
his complaint wasnt logged when it should  have been. It paid him £50 compensation which  
I consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  should pay Mr W £50 (in addition to the 
£50 already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8098501