K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax), didnt treat him fairly  
when they rejected a claim that legal  services he partly paid for with his Halifax  credit  card  
were not provided.  He says he has a claim against  the provider of the legal services  and that 
the effect of section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (1974)  (section 75) is that he has a 
like claim against Halifax.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ws complaint.  An extract of that provisional decision is set out below:
Mr W purchased  a legal  service from a company Ill call J. He made three  payments  to them,  
one of these was his deposit which he paid using his Halifax credit card. They  promised to 
take a timeshare company he had a contract  with, to court for him and recover some 
compensation. But J were  liquidated  and Mr W says they didnt fulfil their contract with him.
Because he used  his credit card to pay for some of the service  he believed  he had a like 
claim against Halifax under section  75.
But Halifax  rejected his claim. They  said that the agreement Mr W had was with the 
company that processed the payment, Ill call them P, and they thought P had not 
breached their contract  with Mr W as theyd processed the transaction correctly.
They said they werent jointly liable for any claim Mr W might have against J as under 
section 75 there needed  to be a direct link between the debtor (Mr W), the creditor (Halifax) 
and the supplier (J) but as Mr Ws payment had been processed through another  company 
(Ill call P), the debtor, creditor, supplier link was incomplete. 
But Mr W disagreed and he referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator agreed 
with Halifax. He explained that for a claim to be successful there needed to be a valid 
relationship between the debtor, the creditor and the supplier (J). But here he noted that    
Mr Ws credit card statement said the payment  was made via P and because  P had added 
another step in the transaction,  there  was no valid relationship  between  debtor, creditor and 
supplier and section  75 couldnt apply. On that basis he did not think it was fair and 
reasonable to uphold  the complaint.
But Mr W disagreed. He said that P were acting under  a commercial entity agreement they 
had with J and were merely processing the payment on Js behalf. He said a representative  
from J told him they were  taking a payment from his credit card and his statement showed  that 
J had received the payment so the debtor, creditor, supplier link was intact and the section 75 
claim should succeed. Mr W also told us he didnt have an account with P so could not have 
made a payment via it. He therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im expecting to uphold this complaint and I know that will come  as a disappointment  to 
Halifax, so please  let me explain.
Ref: DRN88746962Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr W made a claim through them  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
One of those circumstances is that there  must be a valid debtor, creditor, supplier 
relationship. So if I was satisfied that Mr W did not get the service hed paid J for Id think  it 
fair and reasonable that Halifax  refund him.
But for the creditor, Halifax in this case, to have  that liability it needs  to have a relevant 
relationship with the supplier of the goods and here Halifax argues that it hasnt, as the 
payment was made to P and not J.
But Mr W says he doesnt have an account  with P and having asked them about it Im 
persuaded that is the case. P hasnt  been  able to confirm the nature of the agreement it had 
with J as it hasnt got their permission to do so and that wont  change now that J has been 
liquidated. But I think its most likely, in all the circumstances,  that P did have a commercial 
entity agreement  with J to process  payments. I say that because:
Mr W has explained he doesnt  have an account  with P through  which he could have 
made payments;
P hasnt disputed this;
Mr W was surprised to find P was involved at all; so it seems  Ps involvement was not of 
his making;
Mr W tells us he made  the payment through one of Js advisors
So Im persuaded  that the nature of the arrangement between J and P does not stop there 
being a valid debtor,  creditor, supplier relationship. 
J promised him that they would terminate his existing  timeshare contract  and get the money  
back hed paid to the timeshare company. Im satisfied this is the case  because Ive seen a 
letter from J to Mr W setting out the services hed agreed to receive from them and explaining 
they were confident hed be reimbursed 100% of the fees he paid the timeshare company. 
Ref: DRN88746963Mr W paid J £22,680.  Ive seen copies of Mr Ws bank account statements that detail two 
payments of £11,000  made to J and a further  statement  from his credit card that shows  the 
deposit of £680.
J was liquidated  in May 2017 and Mr W therefore  seems to have little chance  to recoup his 
money from them. Im persuaded, on balance, that theyve  not fulfilled the contract he had 
with them  and theyll not be able to do so in the future. Ive read the liquidators report  and 
its clear business activities have been  terminated.
In the circumstances, for the reasons I have set out above, I can see no reason why Halifax 
shouldnt fairly and reasonably be asked to provide redress here
So I think they should refund the money  Mr W paid for the service he didnt receive, on balance.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to uphold this complaint and tell Bank of 
Scotland plc to a  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party provided any further responses for me to review so my provisional decision  
remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Bank of Scotland plc to 
refund the £22,680 Mr W paid for the service that wasnt delivered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8874696