K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Principality Building Society mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs E had a mortgage that was transferred to Principality Building  Society  in January 
1994. They  took out PPI in 1995.  The policy covered Mr E and it protected Mr and Mrs Es 
monthly mortgage repayments in the event  that Mr E couldnt work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagree with the adjudicators  
opinion. Their main  complaint  is that it wasnt made clear  to them  that having PPI was 
optional. They also told us that Mr E was working full time in stable employment and he had 
sufficient sick pay. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Heres why I say this.
I think Principality Building Society  made Mr and Mrs E aware that the policy  was optional  
and that they chose  to have it. I say this because Ive seen the separate application form that 
Mr and Mrs E had to fill in to get PPI added on to their mortgage. Theyve provided personal 
information and answered questions designed  to see if they qualified  for PPI. Only Mr E was 
in paid work at the time and Mr and Mrs E ticked answers to questions which  show  that he 
was eligible for the cover.  
Mr and Mrs E had held their mortgage  account without PPI for some  time when they applied 
for the policy. When theyd taken  out their mortgage they had done so without PPI. So I think 
they wouldve  been aware that it was up to them  to arrange PPI to protect  their mortgage 
only if they wanted to have  it. 
They signed  a declaration  where  it says on the form I/We declare that I/We have read and 
understood the leaflet giving a summary of this insurance. 
On balance, I find that Mr and Mrs E wouldve known it was up to them to say if they wanted 
the PPI and it was added on to their mortgage account when they indicated  theyd  chosen  to 
take it out for Mr E.
Principality Building  Society says it didn't  recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs E  although it 
also cant confirm how it sold the policy to them. Mr and Mrs E say they arranged the 
insurance in a Principality Building Society and it was recommended to them. 
Ref: DRN84065532As its unclear exactly how they took out the PPI, I think the fairest  thing to do is to look at 
their complaint on the basis that Principality Building Society mightve  recommended  them to 
have PPI. This gives their complaint the best chance of succeeding because  it means  that 
as well as giving them clear information, Principality Building Society had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure any PPI recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs E.
Mr E was eligible for the policy  given his circumstances and the terms and conditions  that 
applied. 
Mr E was covered for disability and unemployment. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs E told us they had at least  12 months worth of 
savings they couldve relied on and Mr E said he wouldve been able to depend on getting at 
least 12 months sick pay from his employer. But if he made  a successful disability  claim the 
policy couldve paid out for longer - up to 24 months  per claim - on top of any sick pay if he 
was off work  sick. And as well as this, it wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per claim if 
Mr E lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  The policy provided Mr and Mrs E with 
long term protection  as they couldve made repeated claims on it. 
The mortgage term was over 20 years and when they took out the PPI only Mr E was in paid 
work. So, I dont think its likely  that Mrs E couldve managed  the mortgage monthly 
repayments on her own once their other means were  used  up if Mr E wasnt  working. 
And I dont  know if Mr and Mrs E wouldve always had savings they could rely on to cover  
their monthly outgoings if Mr E wasnt working. So, I think that if Principality Building Society  
did recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs E, that was a suitable recommendation. 
Its possible some of the information  Principality Building Society gave  Mr and Mrs E about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But it doesnt look as if Mr E wouldve been 
affected by any of the things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think  its likely that having 
more information  about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put Mr and Mrs E off 
taking it out. 
I dont know what information Principality Building  Society gave Mr and Mrs E about the 
monthly policy cost. But they chose to take out cover when they didnt  have to, and signed 
an instruction form to their bank  to cover the cost of the monthly premiums. So they seem  to 
have been happy to pay for it at the time. It doesnt look as if the cost was unaffordable  for 
them when they took it out. Mr and Mrs E couldve cancelled the policy at any time if they no 
longer wanted  to pay for it. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs E still wouldve decided to buy the policy  for Mr E even if theyd been 
better informed as the PPI gave them useful protection in their particular  situation.  
So I dont  find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Principality Building  Society  
mightve done wrong. This means  there  isnt anything Principality Building Society needs to 
do to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  what Mr and Mrs Es representative has 
said in response  to the adjudicators view.  But, for the reasons Ive set out above, this 
doesnt affect my decision not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
Ref: DRN84065533my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8406553