K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold  him Current  Account 
Plus packaged bank account  in 2011. He paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  October  
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
After the complaint had been  brought to this service, Barclays  made an offer to refund  the 
Current Account Plus fees that Mr S had paid. It capped the refund of fees at the point when 
it migrated Mr Ss account to a different  account and told MR S about  that.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought Barclays offer to refund the fees
 Mr S paid for the Current  Account Plus, but to cap the refund at the point his account was 
migrated to a Barclays  Bank Account with Tech Pack,  was fair. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Neither party 
responded to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  been  told anything to make me think otherwise, I see no reason to depart from 
the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint in relation to the sale of the Current Account Plus,  up to 
the point it became a Barclays Bank  Account with Tech Pack.
putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr S the offer in relation to the Current  Account  Plus.  So I require 
Barclays to:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the Current  Account Plus;
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr S saved  money because  of a better rate on his overdraft, loan or savings  account  
by having the Current Account Plus and Barclays can show  exactly  how much Mr S 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays him. Barclays  must explain 
clearly and simply to Mr S how it has worked out any deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN85926702my final decision
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  Mr Ss complaint in 
relation to the migration of his account to the Tech Pack.
But I uphold  the complaint  in relation to the sale of the Current  Account  Plus and Barclays  
offer to refund the fees he paid for it is fair. 
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay compensation  to Mr S as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85926703EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED OCTOBER  2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ss complaint. 
Ill start by explaining that I think Barclays  offer in relation to the Current Account Plus is fair  so I 
havent considered that any further.
But after giving Mr Ss complaint a lot of thought,  I dont  think Barclays needs to refund the Tech Pack 
fees. Ill explain why.
Barclays has provided  copies of two letters it sent to Mr S  one before it migrated his account, and 
one to confirm it had been  migrated. I note that the letters are personally addressed  to Mr S at the 
address Barclays  held for him at the time.
The first letter, sent in February  2016, gave Mr S information on the upcoming change. In a prominent 
box on the first page the letter included  If you dont want to add Tech  Pack  to your Barclays Bank 
Account, you can see the alternative options overleaf . The second page of the letter  gave several 
options, including  opting out of the migration and choosing a fee-free account. It gave Mr S the option 
of calling  to make this change, or visiting  a Barclays branch to do so.
The second  letter was sent in May 2016. It confirmed that Mr Ss account  had been changed. Whilst it 
didnt specifically highlight  the fact that Mr S could still opt out of this change, it did give him 
information to show that his account came with a fee and a number of benefits. It gave him 
information on how to find out further information such as by going online, contacting Barclays by 
phone, or visiting a branch.
Having considered  these two letters, Im satisfied that from the point Mr S received the first migration 
letter in February 2016, he was aware he had a choice about whether  to hold a packaged  bank 
account or not. And as I cant see that he contacted Barclays  to either opt out of the change, or query 
it, I cant hold Barclays responsible for that.
I understand that in his initial  complaint Mr S said he had recently arrived in the country and spoke 
limited English when he opened his account.  So he said he wasnt entirely sure of what he was 
signing up for. I understand this and I believe Barclays factored this into its decision when it upheld 
this part of the complaint.
The migration letters were sent around five years after Mr S initially  opened his account  by which  
time Mr Ss English  would  likely have improved  significantly. Barclays has also provided  several 
customer contact notes  between Mr S and its staff. The notes suggest  that Mr S was able to 
communicate effectively during several  meetings in 2011, 2012 and 2013  as he was able to discuss 
several financial products  such as a credit card and home contents insurance. 
Having considered everything, I think Barclays did what it needed to when it migrated Mr Ss 
account to the Barclays  Bank Account with added Tech Pack, by making him aware that he 
had a choice.  I dont know why Mr S chose not to take any action at that stage, but Barclays  
isnt responsible for that.
It follows that I dont intend  to uphold this part of the complaint or tell Barclays to refund the 
fees or pay interest  in relation to the Tech Pack.
Ref: DRN8592670