K820x#14complaint
Mr A is complaining that Southern Rock  Insurance Company (Southern  Rock) avoided  his 
car insurance policy and declined  a claim he made.  
background
Mr A took out a car insurance policy online through Southern Rock in April 2018 to insure a 
car hed taken out on a finance agreement. In May 2018 he was involved in an accident with 
another car which he was found  at fault for. And his car was written  off. Mr A contacted  
Southern Rock to claim on his car insurance  policy.
Southern Rock initially wrote to him to say that it would settle the claim by paying him the 
cars market  value, less his excess. But it said this was subject him to providing certain 
documentation  including a copy of his finance agreement. Mr A sent this to Southern Rock 
who then told him that it was avoiding his insurance policy back  to the beginning  i.e. 
treating it as if it never existed. It said it was doing so because hed said he was the owner 
and registered  keeper  of the car, but it said the actual owner and registered keeper of the 
car was the finance company. So it said it wouldnt be settling Mr As claim.
Mr A didnt think Southern  Rock  was being fair. He said he was clear from the start of the 
claim process that he wasnt the owner and keeper of the car, but he was never  told the 
claim may not be settled.  He said that hed never acquired a car on finance before and he 
believed that he was the keeper of the car as it was being kept at the address he lived at.
Mr A is also unhappy that the claim has been  recorded on the insurance database. He said, 
given Southern Rock hasnt settled  his claim due to the avoided policy,  no claim should  be 
registered on the database.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Mr A was asked whether 
he was the owner  and registered keeper of the car when he applied  for the policy. And hed 
said he was. She also thought the question asked was sufficiently clear. So she thought 
Mr A had failed to take reasonable  care. She was also satisfied that Southern Rock wouldnt 
have insured the car if it had been provided  with the correct information. She said that 
Southern Rock had treated the misrepresentation as reckless, which means its entitled to 
refuse to deal with the claim and to retain the premium. And she thought it was reasonable 
for Southern  Rock  to say this.
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that Southern Rock had told him that it had 
treated the misrepresentation as careless. He also maintained  that he didnt think Southern 
Rock should have recorded the claim on his record given it said the policy didnt  exist so 
there could  be a claim to deal with.
The adjudicator said that Southern Rock had settled  the other drivers claim. So she didnt 
think it was unreasonable to record  the claim on the database. And she said that whether  it 
treated the misrepresentation as careless or reckless wouldnt change  the situation as it was 
still entitled to avoid the insurance policy. And, given it had settled the other drivers claim, it 
was entitled to retain the annual premium  too.
Mr A still didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
Ref: DRN83345732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Under the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) Mr A 
had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying  for his 
insurance policy. And, for the insurer to take any action at all, it needs to show Mr A didnt do 
this and that he made whats  described as a qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the 
consumer was asked.  Mr A took out the insurance  policy online which initially asked:
"Are you the registered keeper and legal owner". 
Mr A clicked  yes  to say that he was. But the owner  and registered keeper of the car was 
the finance company, which was confirmed on the cars V5C form. Mr A said that hed never  
acquired a car on finance before so he said he thought that he was the registered keeper of 
the car as it was kept at his address. However, even if I accepted  that was the case, he 
would have known  he didnt own the car. I also note that the online application form also said 
if you are unsure your log book will record the cars registered keeper which is not 
necessarily the same  as its legal  owner. So I think  that Mr A did fail to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation.
Southern Rock has treated the misrepresentation as reckless. But I dont  think thats fair. A 
qualifying misrepresentation will be deliberate  or reckless if the consumer:
knew the information they provided  was untrue or misleading or did not care whether it 
was untrue or misleading; and
knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, 
or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I dont think I can say that Mr A knew or didnt care that he was giving incorrect  information. I 
think he made a simple mistake. But I dont think his misrepresentation would be considered  
deliberate or reckless.  CIDRA  says that if its not deliberate or reckless a qualifying 
misrepresentation will be taken to be careless.
Where a misrepresentation  is considered  to be careless, the insurer  can still avoid the 
insurance policy if it can show that it wouldnt have provided insurance on any terms. But 
usually it would be required  to refund  the annual premium. In this case  Southern  Rock  has 
shown that it wouldnt  have insured Mr A if it had known that the car was owned  by a finance  
provider. So Im satisfied  that it was fair for it to avoid the insurance policy.  
I note Mr A said that he said he wasnt the owner  of the car when he first contacted Southern  
Rock to discuss the claim. But the issue is that he didnt give correct information when he 
first took out the policy. And Im satisfied that Southern Rock  wouldnt have insured him had 
he given correct information at the time.
Ref: DRN83345733As I said,  Id usually expect Southern Rock to refund  the annual premium.  But Im also 
conscious that its settled the other  drivers claim. Given this, I think  its fair for it to offset  the 
premium it received against  what it paid out.
I note Mr A doesnt think the claim should  be on his record  given theyve cancelled  the policy 
as if it didnt exist and didnt settle the claim. But it did settle the other  drivers claim.  And I 
dont think this was unreasonable  as legislation would have required it to settle  any court  
judgement the other driver would have obtained against Mr A. So it wasnt unreasonable  for 
it to settle the claim in the way that it did. And its been required  to settle the claim due to 
Mr As actions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8334573