K822xcomplaint
K is a limited  company. It complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold it an interest  rate 
hedging product  (IRHP)  and hasnt paid enough compensation.
background 
The circumstances leading to this complaint were set out in my provisional  decision, a copy 
of which  is attached and forms part of my final decision.
K borrowed from HSBC to purchase and develop commercial property. K also entered  a five-
year interest rate hedging  agreement  with the bank in 2007. The hedging product was an 
interest rate cap with a knock-in floor.
Later HSBC  reviewed the sale of the IRHP under its agreement with the Financial Conduct 
Authority. The bank  offered to put the company  in the position  it would have  been  in if it had 
taken a three-year  cap (without a knock-in  floor) instead of the original IRHP. K accepted  the 
offer and in 2015 the bank  paid redress of over £550,000 including  interest. K then made a 
claim for consequential losses. HSBC offered £6,691.50 plus interest towards  Ks 
professional fees.  Unhappy  with the banks response,  K referred its consequential loss 
complaint to us.
I was minded to uphold  the complaint in part. With the replacement cap, K would in my view 
have been in better financial  shape  when it came to the renewal of its borrowing in 2012,  
enabling it to limit an increase in the lending margin. In other words, I thought the original 
IRHP caused Ks renewed lending to be more expensive than it would have been otherwise. 
I thought the bank  should compensate K on the basis of reducing  the lending  margin  by 
0.5%, from the date the margin increased in 2014  to the date when the bank paid the basic  
redress in 2015.  
I also thought  the banks  offer regarding  professional fees was fair and reasonable.
I asked the parties  if they wanted  to send me anything further in response to my findings. 
HSBC said it didnt  agree with all aspects of my provisional decision, but it was prepared to 
accept the decision  in the interests of resolving  the complaint.
Ks director said the bank  had benefited  from the excess lending margin for a longer period 
than Id proposed  in my redress formulation. He said K was bound  by the terms of the 
renewed lending  until November 2015,  after which negotiations proceeded and the same  
margin was paid up to November 2016, when  the loan was moved  to another bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ks director correctly points out that the company  continued to pay the higher lending margin  
after receipt of the basic IRHP redress  right up to November 2016. But I still think it 
wouldn't be right to require the bank  to refund any of the margin paid after K received the 
basic redress. 
Ref: DRN80338062The compensation set out in my decision stems from the effect  of the IRHP losses on Ks 
assets which in turn adversely affected  the banks  assessment of the lending  risk. In April 
2015, the IRHP losses were returned  to K, with interest. The redress funds were then 
available to the company to improve its position regarding its lending  risk, if it chose to use 
them in that way. From that time onwards,  K could have acted to renegotiate the terms of its 
borrowing or to seek better  terms elsewhere. 
By restoring  the companys assets,  the basic redress  removed the underlying problem which  
connected the sale of the original IRHP to the level of the lending margin. After that time, no 
part of the lending margin can in my view be considered a consequential loss flowing from 
the sale of the original  IRHP. So I cant fairly or reasonably  say that the bank should refund  
any of the lending margin paid after K received  the basic  IRHP redress.
For these reasons, I dont  depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc should pay K the following:
The difference between the interest payments on Ks borrowing with a margin  of 
3.25% and the interest payments on equivalent borrowing with a lending margin  of 
2.75%, for the period from the start of the increased  margin in April 2014  up to the 
date the basic  IRHP  redress was paid in 2015.
Interest should  be added at 8% simple  per annum from the date the losses were  
incurred to the date of settlement  of this complaint.
£6,691.50,  plus 8% interest  simple, towards  Ks accountants and other  professional 
fees, in line with its earlier offer to K.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80338063COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
K is a limited company. It complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold it an interest rate hedging 
product (IRHP) and hasnt paid enough  compensation.
background
K borrowed from HSBC to purchase  and develop commercial property.  K also entered a five-year 
interest rate hedging  agreement  with the bank  in 2007. The hedging product was a 7.25% cap with a 
4.25% knock-in floor. This had the effect  of setting an upper limit of 7.25% (plus lending  margin) on 
the companys  interest costs and allowing the company to benefit  from falling interest rates until 3-
month LIBOR fell to 4.25%.  At that point, Ks interest costs  would jump to the 7.25% cap rate. Thats  
what actually happened  in 2009 when  general interest rates fell to historic  lows.
Later HSBC reviewed the sale of the IRHP under  its agreement  with the Financial Conduct Authority  
and concluded the sale hadnt met the required standards.  After some exchanges,  K accepted the 
banks offer to put the company in the position  it would have been in if it had taken a three-year  base 
rate cap (without a knock-in floor) instead of the original IRHP. In 2015 the bank accordingly paid K 
redress of over £550,000 including interest. The settlement also left K with the right to make a further 
claim for consequential losses.
K then made its claim for consequential losses. HSBC  offered £6,691.50 plus interest,  to cover some 
professional fees. Unhappy with the banks response, K referred  its complaint  to us.
K is claiming for consequential losses that it says were caused by having to make  the IRHP  
payments. In particular it says having the original IRHP  caused the following:
Loss of rent when the banks withdrawal of some  facilities delayed  the project.
Costs of management  time and arrangement  fees for obtaining  funds from an associated  
business (which Ill call S) to cover the IRHP payments.
Higher interest costs resulting from a margin increase. Without the IRHP payments, the 
company would have secured a more  advantageous interest  rate.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the bank should pay more  than it had already offered for 
consequential losses. In summary, he gave the following reasons:
HSBC did reduce  Ks lending facilities  between  October 2008 and March  2009.  But the 
adjudicator didnt think  the reduction was caused by the IRHP, because there had been a 
number of external  practical issues affecting  the project. And he wasnt persuaded  that the 
short-term change  in the lending  caused  the delay to the build.
If the purpose of the funding from S was to cover the cost of the IRHP payments, then the 
basic redress already  paid by the bank,  together with the interest element, should have 
allowed these costs  to be repaid. In the absence of any detailed breakdown of costs, the 8% 
simple interest  paid is likely to have made good any losses associated with obtaining this 
funding.
The adjudicator hadnt seen evidence to show how much time the directors  spent in dealing 
with the IRHP or what losses  the business suffered as a result.
He wasnt convinced the IRHP was responsible for the increased lending margin, rather than 
normal commercial  considerations by the bank. And the ombudsman service  is generally  
reluctant to interfere with the legitimate exercise  of a banks commercial judgement.
Ref: DRN80338064K didnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions. Its director made these points,  in summary:
Although the bank  reinstated the reduced facilities  after six months, the IRHP  payments 
reduced any possibility of accelerating  the programme to complete the project.
Communications from the bank  at the time showed that the IRHP created risk, notably the 
potential break costs.  It would seem  incredible  to believe this didnt affect  the banks decision 
to reduce the lending facilities.
Its unreasonable  to expect a small  company  to provide detailed information  about  directors 
time and how it was spent.
K has submitted a recent email from its accountant  explaining  management charges and the 
effect of loss of income to S. There was also a letter,  sent from the accountant to K in 2014, 
explaining that an invoice  was raised by S regarding  the work  carried out by its directors 
supporting K throughout  the period  of the IRHP.
Its also unreasonable to require documentary evidence of the arrangement fee for the funds 
from S. Its common practice for the bank to impose  arrangement fees on its lending as a 
percentage. On this basis, a fee of 2.5% (lower than would be charged by the bank)  on 
unsecured development  lending would be more  than reasonable.
The margin increase was clearly the result of less money being  available  to K in 2014. The 
margin was increased to reflect the increased loan-to-value ratio (LTV).  Without the demands 
of the IRHP  payments,  the funding from S could  have  been used to reduce the LTV. Without 
the IRHP, the company could  have  negotiated better terms.
The bank agreed with the adjudicators conclusions  and added these  points about  the margin  
increase, in summary:
The banks records show the key determinants  of the re-pricing of the interest rate margin 
were the rise in the LTV (caused by a downturn in property values) and the delays in the 
building project (also  caused by external factors).
The IRHP payments  were funded by the loan from S, so the IRHP was largely neutral as 
regards factors considered by the bank when reviewing the terms of the customers facilities.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Because the issue of the mis-sale has already been resolved between the two parties, the starting 
point of my decision is that K should have had the three-year base  rate cap, rather  than the original 
IRHP. I wont  be re-opening  that issue.
consequential losses
I need to look at whether the banks failures actually  caused these consequential  losses.  And if they 
did, I also need to ask whether its fair to hold the bank responsible for the losses. To do this, Id need 
to ask whether the bank could reasonably  foresee that its failures would  result in losses like these. In 
other words, Id need to be satisfied the losses werent too remote  from the banks failings.
In making these assessments, I need to compare what actually happened with whats likely  to have 
happened if K had taken the three-year base rate cap rather than the original IRHP.  
Ref: DRN80338065loss of rent
I agree with the adjudicator that the temporary  withdrawal of lending facilities  seems to have been  
caused by external factors  rather than the IRHP payments. In particular, a surveyors report had 
indicated that the gross development value  of the property had fallen, which  brought the projects 
profitability into question.  I also note that the IRHP payments didnt  start until March 2009, which  was 
after the period of reduced facilities began and ended. So I dont  think the IRHP  was responsible for 
the delay in the project and any resulting loss of rent.
Its clear that the IRHP carried a risk of break costs. But theres no supporting evidence that the break 
cost risk led HSBC  to reduce  Ks lending facilities  in 2008. The risk could be said to have been even 
higher in March 2009 (because interest rates had fallen much further by then) but the bank restored 
Ks facilities at that time  suggesting that changes in the break  cost risk didnt affect the banks 
appetite for lending to K. 
K says that even though the lending  was restored after six months, the IRHP payments reduced any 
possibility of accelerating the programme  to catch up. But Ive seen no evidence  that, in the absence 
of the IRHP,  K would have organised the project to restore its original schedule. And in any event, Im 
satisfied that the cause  of the six-month funding gap lay in external  factors, not the IRHP,  so it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold the bank responsible for any consequences of the delay.
management time
I agree with the adjudicator that K hasnt provided any evidence of losses caused to the company as 
a result of management time spent dealing  with the IRHP or the complaint. It wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to require the bank to pay for such losses without  supporting evidence.  
Ive looked at the letter  and email from Ks accountant. Im not persuaded  that they provide evidence  
of losses  as a result of Ks management time spent dealing with the IRHP. They  say that an invoice 
for £80,000 was raised by S for its directors  time. But Ive seen no contemporaneous evidence of 
charges made by S to K during the relevant years, or evidence that such  charges  were  actually paid 
by K. 
Even if there were evidence that those charges were made by S at the time, and paid by K, I wouldnt 
be minded to require the bank to reimburse them.  Thats because Ss directors were also Ks directors 
 so the invoice mentioned  by the accountant was essentially for Ks own directors  time,  charged 
through another related  company at professional  rates.  I dont  think it would  be fair or reasonable  to 
require the bank to pay for Ks directors time.
arrangement fee
K argues  that a loan arrangement fee of 2.5% would be more than reasonable.  But I havent seen 
evidence that K actually  paid such a fee. 
K has also argued that it was always  intended  that S would be ready to provide funding  for part of the 
project, and that in the absence  of the IRHP, S would have  made  a loan to enable K to repay some of 
its borrowing from HSBC to reduce its LTV in 2012. This is central to Ks claim regarding the 
increased interest rate margin,  which  I consider  below. If S would  have provided  the loan anyway, 
even without the IRHP, then any arrangement  fee would have  been due even without the IRHP.  So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say the IRHP caused K to pay an arrangement fee for the loan.
In any event, I agree with the adjudicator  that the interest element already paid to K with the basic  
redress would be enough  to cover any such fee.
Ref: DRN80338066increased lending margin
In May 2012  the parties agreed a renewal of the lending  facilities. Part of the agreement was that the 
lending margin would rise in April 2014.  
It seems to be common ground  that one reason for the increase in the margin  was that Ks LTV had 
risen above  70%.  
K says that without the burden of the IRHP payments,  it could have used the loan from S to pay down 
its borrowing from the bank, thereby reducing its LTV. In those circumstances, K argues  that the bank 
wouldnt have required such  a large increase in the margin. It suggests  the company could have 
negotiated a margin 0.5% lower.  
Im minded to agree with K that in the absence of the IRHP payments,  it could  have used funding from 
S to reduce its LTV.  And if it had done  that, I think its likely that a lower margin increase would have 
been the result.
The bank has argued that although S lent K money for the IRHP payments, theres  no evidence  that it 
would have lent the money to reduce Ks lending. In response, K has pointed  to a letter  from the bank 
in 2008 which refers to the possibility of capital being injected by the directors from successful 
completion of other  projects  to help complete  Ks project. K says this proves it was always the 
directors intention to inject further  money via inter-company loans. The 2008 letter doesnt specifically 
say that S would provide funds to help K reduce its lending if required,  but in my view it is evidence  
that the boundaries between the directors various enterprises were  porous  and that money  would  be 
moved if it made commercial  sense.  And thats what  actually happened  when K needed  additional 
cash for its IRHP payments.  So I think its likely that the directors, faced  with renewal negotiations, 
would similarly have been attracted to moving  funds from S to K, in order to bring its LTV to a level 
that would attract a lower interest rate.
HSBC has also said that the effect  of the IRHP on its thinking about  the renewal was neutral  because  
K received  funding from S to make the payments. But I think the banks argument misses  the point 
here. As far as I can see, K isnt saying that the demands of the IRHP payments influenced the banks 
consideration of the renewal  terms. Rather, K is simply  arguing that in the absence  of the IRHP  
payments, it would have had access to enough funds to improve its LTV  which  would have 
improved its negotiating position regarding  the renewal terms.
Both the adjudicator  and HSBC have pointed out that the pricing of a loan is usually  considered  to be 
a matter for the banks legitimate commercial judgement. I agree. Im not suggesting  that the bank did 
anything wrong when negotiating the terms of renewal in 2012, given the circumstances  at the time. 
Rather, Im saying that the circumstances of the negotiation would have been different if K hadnt 
made the IRHP payments.  I believe that as a consequence of the original bank failure in 2007, its 
likely that in 2012 the margin was set higher than it would have been if K had taken the replacement  
cap from the outset.
Im satisfied that it was reasonably foreseeable that IRHP payments could cause such a problem.
The LTV wasnt the only factor that the bank would  have  taken into account  in its assessment of the 
renewal, so its not possible to say with any certainty what margin  would have been agreed in the 
renewal negotiation  if K had brought the LTV within  its original  limit. I therefore  need to decide  on a 
margin reduction that I consider would  be a fair and reasonable basis  on which to award redress. 
Ks director has pointed to HSBCs lending to another associated  company, which had a margin 0.5% 
lower than Ks. The bank has said the other company had a different risk profile  and therefore 
different pricing would have been applied. But I think the lower LTV would  have made  a significant 
difference to the risk assessment for K. And I note that the total rise in Ks margin  was 1.75%  (from 
1.50% to 3.25%). So I dont think it would be unreasonable  to award redress on the basis that the 
margin would have risen 0.5% less if there had been a lower LTV.  Im therefore minded to require the 
Ref: DRN80338067bank to compensate  K for the difference between the interest K actually  paid (with a margin  of 3.25%) 
and the interest it would  have paid with a margin of 2.75%  for the period  I describe below.
The margin increase caused K no loss before  its implementation in April 2014. The basic IRHP 
redress, including interest, was paid to K early in 2015, which restored  K to the position  it would have  
been in if it had taken  the replacement  cap from the outset.  From that point in 2015,  the funds  from 
the redress  would have been  available for K to improve its position regarding its lending  risk. In other 
words, the redress  made up any capital  shortage that caused the underlying problem.  In my view,  it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold the bank responsible for losses associated  with Ks interest rate 
margin after the basic redress  was paid.
Im therefore  minded to order  that HSBC should repay K the difference in interest paid during the 
period from April 2014 to the date of settlement in 2015. To avoid any doubt, I should  make it clear  
that this is a money award  Im not asking  the bank to cancel the original lending  and construct a 
replacement.
other consequential losses
I think  it would be fair and reasonable for the bank to pay the £6,691.50 plus interest that it has 
already offered, towards accountants and other professional fees. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint and to require HSBC UK Bank Plc 
to pay K the following:
The difference between the interest payments on Ks borrowing with a margin of 3.25% and 
the interest payments  on equivalent borrowing  with a lending margin of 2.75%, for the period 
from the start of the increased margin in April 2014 up to the date the basic IRHP redress was 
paid in 2015.
Interest should be added  at 8% simple per annum  from the date the losses were  incurred to 
the date of settlement  of this complaint.
£6,691.50, plus 8% interest  simple, towards Ks accountants  and other professional  fees, in 
line with its earlier offer to K.
For reasons that Ive explained above, Im not minded to order  the bank to pay any other 
compensation for consequential losses.
I ask the bank  to produce an indicative redress calculation, in a clear  and simple format, as part of its 
response to this provisional decision.
Colin Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8033806