K820x#14complaint
Mr T complained because Barclays Bank UK Plc refused to refund  him for two £40 cash 
withdrawals, which he said he didnt authorise. 
background
On 2 February 2019, Mr T made  a genuine debit card payment for £25 just before 11 am. 
That evening, he went out with his partner and some friends,  returning  home  about  10 pm. 
On 3 February, Mr Ts genuine card, with the correct  PIN entered  first time, was used to 
make a balance enquiry  at a cash machine at 6.47 am. This was followed by a £40 cash 
withdrawal, another  balance enquiry  a few seconds later,  and final another  £40 cash 
withdrawal at 6.48 am. At the time of these transactions, the balance enquiry would have 
shown that Mr T had around £1,200  in his account.
At 8.17 am, Mr T logged onto mobile  banking. He rang Barclays and said that he hadnt  
made the withdrawals.  He said hed lost his card the night before.
Barclays cancelled the card,  and temporarily refunded  Mr T with the disputed £80, while it 
investigated. 
But Barclays final decision was that it wouldnt  refund Mr T, and it removed the temporary  
credit. Barclays explained  that:
-the chip in the card cant be copied, and the machines used for the withdrawals had 
read the chip;
-there had been no incorrect PIN attempts;
-there hadnt been any attempts to withdraw  money after the card had been 
cancelled. This suggested  that whoever used the card knew  it had been cancelled;
-the balance  enquiries would have  shown that there had been  a lot more  money  in the 
account  but this hadnt been  withdrawn;
-Mr T had told Barclays  hed lost his card from 10 pm on 2 February, but he hadnt 
reported it until 8.19 am the next morning.
Mr T wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. He noted that Mr T had said that no-one 
else knew his PIN, and it wasnt written down.  The investigator considered that either Mr T, 
or someone  to whom hed given his card and PIN, had made  the withdrawals. 
Mr T said he was deeply unsatisfied with the response. Hed answered many questions, but 
this had been an absolute waste of this time,  because the investigator had just come  up with 
the same  version  as Barclays.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place in February 2019 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  These say that the payment service provider (here,  
Barclays) must show the payment was authenticated.  Thats  the technical part, and here,  
Ref: DRN80655302Mr Ts genuine  card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were used. So the disputed  payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, 
and the customer  is liable  if he did authorise  them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised  payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed  to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed  
gross  negligence.
There have been  no known instances  of the chip in a card being copied  or cloned. When a 
card is cloned, the card numbers are copied, and these are sometimes  then used on, for 
example, phone transactions where  the actual card isnt present. But here,  the computer 
records show that Mr Ts genuine card with genuine  chip, was put into the cash  machine for 
the disputed transactions. The machine read the genuine chip and recorded that. I also note 
that the correct  PIN was used first time,  with no failed attempts. There  are around 10,000 
combinations for a four digit PIN. Mr T said he hadnt written down his PIN. 
Sometimes a fraudster will look over someones shoulder at a cash machine, to see the PIN 
number, and then steal the card. Mr Ts last genuine transaction took place just before  
11 am on 2 February.  I dont consider its likely  that a fraudster would have obtained the 
card, and knowledge of the PIN, at that point, but not used them  until early in the morning 
the following  day. I consider a fraudster would have  used  the card and PIN within  a very 
short time.
So I consider its most likely that the card must have been used either by Mr T, or by 
someone to whom hed given the card and PIN. It doesnt make a difference which it was, 
because in both cases Mr T consented  to the withdrawals  so he, rather than Barclays, 
would be liable.
Ive also borne in mind  that when Mr T rang Barclays at 8.19 am, he said he realised hed 
lost the card around  10 pm the night before. But he didnt report  it at that point.  The terms 
and conditions of Mr Ts account  say that if a customer  thinks their account security  has 
been compromised, they should  tell the bank as soon  as possible. Mr T told Barclays  that he 
knew hed lost the card, some 10 hours before the disputed transactions.  If hed reported the 
card missing  as soon as he knew, the card would have been stopped and the disputed 
transactions couldnt have taken place. But Mr T didnt report it  as soon as he realised, so I 
consider he didnt meet the requirements of the terms and conditions of his account. 
Ive also seen the statements for Mr Ts account.  At the end of the day on 1 February,  his 
balance was £1,258.46. So the balance checks which took place immediately before the 
disputed transactions  would  have  shown a significant balance.  Its not credible that a third 
party fraudster in possession of the valid card, and with knowledge  of the correct PIN, would 
only have taken out two £40 withdrawals  and then not made  any further attempts.
For these reasons, I find that its most  likely that Mr T carried out the disputed withdrawals 
himself, or he gave his card and PIN to someone  else. So I dont require Barclays to refund 
Mr T.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN80655303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8065530