K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains on behalf of her daughter Ms T that a car Ms T took out 
a Hire Purchase  Agreement for with First Response  finance Ltd (First 
Response).wasnt fit for purpose. She would like to reject  the car.
background
Ms A says Ms T took out a two year Hire Purchase  Agreement with First 
Response in October 2018. The agreement was for an eight year old car 
with a mileage of 56, 0000.
Ms A said there have been numerous  faults with the car. For example a 
problem with the head gasket, an engine oil leak,  the exhaust  blowing 
and a gear box leak.
Ms A says Ms T doesnt believe the car is fit for purpose  and wasnt at 
the point of sale. She would  like to reject the car.
First Response  said it covered the cost of repairs of issues  that were or 
were likely  to have been present or developing at the point of sale at a 
cost of £510
Our investigator didnt uphold  the complaint. He found that First 
Response had acted fairly by paying for repairs which could have been  
present at the point of sale.
First Response  accepted  this view but Ms T didnt. Ms A said a road 
recovery report  noted serious problems. She felt her word should be 
respected. And felt that the report evidence that the car had been mis 
sold.  She felt that Ms T was forced to repair the car 
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. He 
said there was no evidence to say the repairs that First Reponses didnt  
pay for were  present at the point of sale or linked to repairs that First 
Response paid for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85086202As I understand it although the Hire Purchase  Agreement is in Ms Ts 
name Ms A was the main driver of the car. So its Ms A who  
experienced the problems.
I dont think there  is any dispute that there have been problems with the 
car. I am mindful  that Ms T took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement for an 
eight year old car with a mileage of 56,000 at the point of sale.
I think Ms T could expect some  wear and tear and repairs on a used car 
with significant mileage  more so than for example than with a newer  car 
with less mileage . 
Having said that we do expect cars to be fit for purpose at the point of 
sale. We generally say that if faults  arise within  the first six months its 
down to the business to identify  if any issues were present  or developing 
at the point of sale. And if they were we would usually  expect the 
business to attempt  to repair these.
Ms T took out her Hire Purchase Agreement on 19 October 2018. I can 
see from the customer notes that First Response  has provided that Ms T 
contacted the business in December 2018 about the air bag light coming  
on and about balk and split tyres. I can see that the business  made 
several attempts to contact Ms T but was unable to do so.
There was then no more contact until Ms A contacted First Response in 
March 2019. 
I can see from information Ms A gave that a roadside recovery company  
attended the car in March 2019.  This identified possible issues with the 
cylinder head and a coolant leak.
As these issues  arose within six months  of Ms T having the car we 
would expect First Response to look into these with a view to resolving 
any point or possible point of sale issues. 
Ive seen First Responses customer  notes which show  it arranged  for a 
mechanic to inspect the car. I have seen the list of issues the mechanic 
reported. And details of a phone call between First Response  and the 
mechanic to identify if any of the issues were present  or developing at 
the point of sale.
Ref: DRN85086203The mechanic identified a number of issues  firstly  a potential head 
gasket fault due to leaking coolant. The mechanic advised if this had 
been a point of sale issue Ms A wouldnt  have been able to drive the car. 
First Response  concluded it wasnt responsible for this issue. 
The second issue was the gear box oil leak. The mechanic felt due to 
the amount of oil present this wouldnt have been  present  at the point of 
sale. So again First Response  decided it wasnt responsible for this.
The next issue  identified  wad an engine oil leak. The leak was only a 
small one and First Response accepted the mechanics  view that this 
could have been present at the point of sale.
The fourth issue was the exhaust  blowing. The mechanic concluded 
there had been a previous repair. And this issue  may have been  present 
at the point of sale but if so the car wouldnt  have passed  its MOT which 
it did. First Response  decided that as there was evidence  of a previous 
repair it should agree to cover the cost of this repair.
Finally the front brake discs  were corroded but this was seen as a wear 
and tear issue not likely to have been present at the point of sale.  A 
snapped door handle  and damaged door sill were taken to be cosmetic 
items not affecting the ability of the car to be driven.
I think First Response took a fair approach in accepting the reports 
findings and, where there was some question of liability,  for example 
with the exhaust blowing, it took responsibility to cover this cost.
Ms A has said there  was pressure to accept repairs rather than asking to 
reject the car. I can see from the customer notes that Ms A said she 
wanted to reject the car on 3 April 2019. But the following  entries  and I 
am not sure if these reflect phone calls with Ms T or Ms A are all 
focussed on repairs. On 16 April 2019 there is a note to say the 
consumer wanted the full cost of repairs to be covered.  And on 26 April 
2019 that the partial  cost of repairs being met was accepted.
I dont feel I have any evidence to show that First Response pressured 
either Ms A or Ms T into accepting repairs. 
We would  normally allow a business one opportunity  to make  good any 
faults that were present or developing at the point of sale.  I think that 
Ref: DRN85086204First Response  has been very reasonable in the costs it has covered. So 
on that basis  I dont feel I can reasonably allow  Ms T to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Ms T to accept or reject  my decision before 28 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8508620