K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a vehicle financed through a Conditional  Sale Agreement with Close 
Brothers Limited (CBL)  isnt of satisfactory quality. He would like to reject the vehicle with no 
further payments  to be made
background
Mr H says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement  in September  2017 for an 11 year old 
vehicle with mileage  of 126,000.
Mr H said within two weeks of having the vehicle he had to have  the master  cylinder  
replaced. Then within the first couple  of months  he needed to have new discs  and brake  
pads. This work was carried out by a friend.
Mr H then said on 10 January 2018  the RAC  had to attend to his car due to low power. He 
says on inspection at a garage  he was advised  that the exhaust between  the manifolds had 
cracked. And that the front exhaust  pipe needed  replacing along with the gaskets, bolts and 
brackets. This diagnostic  test cost £27.84.
Mr H said he didnt have the repair work  carried out until April 2018 as he didnt have the 
money to do so. The cost of the repair was £1,081.33.
Mr H said he had further problems in December 2018 when he was advised he needed a 
new engine.
CBL said there were no grounds  to reject the vehicle since  it had asked Mr H to provide a 
statement of truth from a VAT registered garage from a qualified  engineer  about  the timing  
chain and crank shaft damage.  But Mr H hadnt  done this.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-Mr H bought  a used car in September 2017 with significant mileage.
-With a used  car Mr H so could  reasonably  expect  to incur some wear,  tear and repair 
costs  more so than with a new car. 
-Mr H told us about a number of problems  he has had with his vehicle. He said that he 
had to replace the master cylinder  within two weeks. And a friend  did work on the brake 
discs and pads  for him
-That brake discs and pads are serviceable  items that Mr H might have expected to 
replace at some point.  It was unreasonable to expect CBL to cover  the cost of 
serviceable items
-There were two other main issues for me to address  the problems with the exhaust 
which Mr H had repaired at a cost of £1,081.33 in April 2018. And the subsequent failure 
of the engine.
Ref: DRN86452962-The engine problem  was diagnosed  in December 2018  approximately 15 months  after 
Mr H got the car.
-Mr H gave us no evidence to show the engine  problem was present or developing at the 
point of sale.  So I didnt find it reasonable to expect CBL to take any action in relation to 
this problem.
-The outstanding problem was the problem with the exhaust 
-Mr H gave us a copy of a diagnostic report carried out in January  2018 which  confirmed that 
the front exhaust pipe along with the gaskets,  bolts and brackets needed to be replaced.
-Mr H showed he went ahead and had this work done in April 2018 as he couldnt afford 
to have the work done before.
-The cost of the exhaust  pipe work  was £1,081.33.
-From the customer notes I cant see that Mr H raised the problem with the exhaust until 
he complained  about the engine in December 2018.   That was 15 months after he had 
the car. And eight months  after the exhaust pipe was replaced.
-It seemed Mr H went ahead and had the problem with the exhaust diagnosed and then 
had the repair  work  done with no involvement from CBL.
-As Mr H got his car in September  2017.  And the exhaust pipe problem was identified  in 
January 2018 this problem clearly arose within six months of having  the car. But that didnt 
necessarily mean that there was a problem present or developing at the point of sale.  
-Had Mr M raised the problem with CBL at the time I would have  expected it to inspect 
the car  preferably with an independent  inspection to find out why the problem occurred 
and if it was a point of sale issue for which CBL was responsible.
-But without  any such evidence  I didnt  think it was reasonable to expect CBL to cover 
the cost of the repair when it had no opportunity to carry out an inspection  when the 
issue arose.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CBL responded to my provisional  view but had nothing further it wished to add to the 
information that it has already provided.
Mr H hasnt responded to my provisional view. We have contacted Mr H several times to 
remind him of the deadline for submitting a response. And we extended our deadline to give 
him some further time to contact us.
But has we have had no contact from Mr H I think its reasonable, and fair to CBL, to go 
ahead with my final decision.
Ref: DRN86452963In the absence of any information  from Mr H I have reviewed my provisional findings. 
I am still of the view that as Mr H didnt raise the problem of the exhaust pipe when it arose  
some four months after he had the car CBL had no opportunity to inspect the car, to show if the 
fault was present and developing at the point of sale , or to at least have one attempt to repair.
On that basis I dont feel its fair to expect CBL to refund Mr H the cost of the work to the 
exhaust pipe.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8645296