K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  Amigo  Loans Ltd wouldnt agree a new repayment  plan to pay off a loan 
when she ran into financial  difficulties.  She says this has affected her health and she wants  
compensation.
background 
Ms B tells us she took out a guarantor loan with Amigo in 2017. Ill refer to the guarantor  as 
J. The total repayments - including interest and charges - were repayable over five years at 
£395 per month.  But due to changes in her employment situation  she started to struggle to 
make repayments around March 2018.  Ms B says she made an offer to make  repayments of 
£150 per month but Amigo initially turned this down. Whilst  its now accepted an even lower 
offer - £80 per month - she says its taken from March 2018 to November 2018 to sort this 
out. And shes experienced serious  health issues as a result. Ms B says she feels shes 
been hounded and put under pressure. She feels the £35 Amigo  has paid in compensation 
is an insult.
Amigo told us that it didnt accept the first offer - of £150 per month  - as it would have  
extended the loan period and also lengthened the period J would have been liable. 
Subsequently - due to a change of criteria in the way it dealt with payment  plans  - it said it 
was able to accept the offer. But by then Ms Bs circumstances  had changed. Amigo  says it 
has now accepted  Ms Bs offer of £80 per month and feels  it has treated her fairly. It did 
accept that the contents of certain  correspondence might have been worded  better  and 
offered £35 by way of compensation.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt  think  
Amigo had treated Ms B unfairly and had agreed a new repayment plan which Ms B can 
afford.
Ms B didnt agree and said she felt badly treated by Amigo. She says she now suffers stress 
and thinks she should receive compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Ms B has experienced such a difficult and stressful period of late. And I 
understand that financial problems can have a debilitating effect which  can affect health and 
other features of daily life.
I can see there are a number of issues about  which Ms B is concerned and whilst  Ill explain 
our approach I shant  be able to deal with all of these matters  in the way I think Ms B might 
hope for.
When a customer runs into financial  difficulties  the first thing wed expect a business  to do is 
to treat the customer  fairly. That means  listening to what  a customer  says and deciding the 
best way to assist  them.  But theres  no set way this is done  as each customers  situation  is 
different -and an individual  solution is required in each case. 
Ref: DRN82542472Whilst Im only directly  considering Ms Bs circumstances - Amigo was also obliged  to take 
into account the interests of her guarantor. In other words it had to balance  the needs  of 
being fair to Ms B whilst at the same time being fair to J.
Im aware Ms B says the way Amigo treated her was less favourable  than that she 
experienced from other creditors. But each business has the right to deal with a customer in 
the way it feels is best. Im not the industry  regulator  and so its not for me to tell a business 
what criteria it uses in dealing with the needs  of an individual customer.  Provided  its 
approach is fair then it is free to choose the criteria it uses.  And that might be different from 
that of other businesses.
I can see Amigo asked for and received an income and expenditure form at the start of June 
2018. This is what Id have expected  and it was entitled - on the basis  of the information 
provided - to then decide what it thought Ms B could reasonably  afford.
I can see Amigo initially turned down Ms Bs offer of reduced payments of £150 per month 
before later being  willing to accept it. It said it did so as this would  have unreasonably 
extended the length of the loan - which could have adversely affected J. It later changed  its 
decision as it had altered the criteria  it used.  I dont think  this was unfair. As Ive already 
explained a business is free to apply - and change - its own criteria. And it had received 
information from J that her circumstances  had also changed. This meant  that she also was 
not able to make reasonable  repayments.
As it happens Ms Bs circumstances had taken a change for the worse  and a new budget 
plan was submitted.  Whilst  initially Amigo asked for an amount above the figure Ms B offered 
- it did eventually agree and a payment plan of £80 per month  has now been  set up.
I accept that the period between March  and November must have seemed a long time for 
Ms B. But its clear  the situation affecting both her and J changed more than once. So it was 
necessary for Amigo to respond to this. The fact that various  offers and counter offers  were  
made before the agreed figure was reached suggests a proper measure  of flexibility  in the
approach of both parties. And Im aware that even the current  figure  would not usually be 
within Amigos adjusted criteria. But its taken Ms Bs health  issues into account - and I think  
its acted fairly in doing so. I dont think the overall time period - particularly as the interests 
of J had to be considered  - was unreasonable.
Whist I do not doubt Ms B felt she was being hounded and treated unfairly  Ive seen no 
evidence which would  lead me to reach that conclusion. I re-emphasise my sympathy for the 
health issues which Ms B is experiencing - but it would not be fair and reasonable to say 
Amigo - as opposed to the general effect  of debt - is responsible.
A business is entitled to recover money  its owed  and unfortunately that will at times require 
reference being made to the various potential methods of recovery action. This includes  
legal action if required.
I accept it must be an unpleasant experience  to be part of this process but on the evidence 
Ive seen I cant say Amigo has acted unfairly.
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Ms B but going  forward she can be assured 
that Amigo is required to continue to treat her fairly and with forbearance. 
Ref: DRN82542473 my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8254247