K820x#14complaint
Ms I complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
background
Ms I took out the following instalment loans with Uncle Buck:
date £ amount 
borrowedno. of repayments
at outsetdate repaid
16 December 2017 200 3 29 December 2017
24 February 2018 500 5 28 February 2018
315 March 2018 600 5
In May 2018, Ms I told Uncle Buck that she was in financial difficulty and it agreed a 
repayment arrangement  in relation  to loan three.  
Initially, our adjudicator thought that Uncle Buck hadnt carried  out proportionate  checks 
before lending to Ms I. But the adjudicator couldnt say whether proportionate checks  would 
have made  a difference. That was because  Ms I hadnt responded to our requests  for 
information. So, the adjudicator couldnt  say whether proportionate checks would  have made 
any difference here.  
Ms I provided us with some further information and her bank statements. The adjudicator  
looked at the matter  again and said that when Ms I applied for loan three, Uncle Buck  should 
have also asked Ms I about  the recent  accounts shed opened, given what  it saw from its 
own checks. She said that she couldnt see anything to suggest  that Ms I had outstanding 
short-term loans when  she applied for loan three.  The adjudicator said that, based  on what 
Ms I told Uncle Buck  about  her income  and expenditure,  it appeared that she could afford  to 
repay loan three. The adjudicator said that in the particular circumstances here,  Uncle Buck  
didnt have to verify  what Ms I said about  her finances. 
Ms I said her bank statements showed that before loan three,  she had made  payments to a 
debt management  company and short-term lenders and that she hadnt paid her rent. The 
adjudicator didnt change her view. She said that Uncle Buck didnt need to see Ms Is bank 
statements, so it wouldnt have known  about  the transactions  to which Ms I refers.  
Ms I asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint. So, it was passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Ms I 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as the amount of the loan, the instalment repayments and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN80958002But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Ms I could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Is complaint.
I think the checks Uncle Buck carried out before loans one and two were  proportionate. Ms I 
told Uncle Buck that her monthly income and expenditure were £1,800 and £1,150  
respectively. So, it appears that could afford to repay the instalments for those loans. 
Uncle Buck  carried out credit checks before  lending  to Ms I. The information  a prospective 
lender can see from a credit check is much  more limited than the information Ms I can see 
from her own credit  report. I dont think that Uncle Buck needed to do more than it did before 
loans one and two. 
I think the position changed  before loan three. Thats because  Uncle  Bucks  own credit  
check before  loan three showed that Ms I had opened a large number of accounts in the last 
six months. The credit check didnt show what sort of accounts those were but I think that 
Uncle Buck  should  have  enquired further  of Ms I. I think before loan three, it should have 
asked Ms I whether she had outstanding  short-term  loans.  Uncle  Buck didnt do that, so I 
think that it didnt  carry out proportionate checks before loan three.  
Ref: DRN80958003Its important to note that, given what was apparent about Ms Is circumstances at the time 
and her history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for Uncle  Buck to 
verify what Miss I was saying  by, for example, asking for her bank statements. So, Uncle 
Buck wouldnt have been aware of Ms Is previous payments to short-term  lenders, her debt 
management plan or that fact that she hadnt  paid her rent that month. 
Based on what Ive seen,  Ms I didnt have outstanding short-term loans at the time she took 
out loan three. So, proportionate checks which included asking about  outstanding short-term 
loans wouldnt have  revealed that she couldnt  afford to repay  loan three. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Ms Is lending  history with Uncle Buck  with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. But I dont think that the number of loans  
Ms I took from Uncle Buck, the amounts they were for or the period of time Ms I was 
borrowing meant Ms Is loan history, in itself,  should have shown Uncle  Buck that she might 
have been experiencing  underlying financial difficulty.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms I but, for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont 
uphold her complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8095800