K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about a pension policy he has with Phoenix Life Limited. He is 
unhappy about the charges applied and the performance of the policy over the years.
background
Mr C started a Retirement Annuity Contract  in 1984. This was with another business  but 
Phoenix is now responsible for the plan.  The plan was designed to provide an income  in 
retirement. Hes made regular monthly contributions  and the plan has a current value of 
around £66,000.
Mr C is unhappy with the performance of the funds  and questions the management of the 
plan. Hes also unhappy about the charges applied.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator but she didnt think that it should  be upheld.  
She explained that she hadnt considered any issues relating to the advice at the time of sale 
of the plan, as that wasnt part of the original complaint. She noted that Phoenix was 
considering that aspect  separately.
The adjudicator said that the plan charges appeared to have been  deducted  in line with the 
terms and conditions of the plan. And, the charges  were made in percentage terms, which 
was typical for plans like this one.
On the issue of performance, the adjudicator  noted that illustrations from the time of sale had 
used projected future growth rates of up to 14 per cent per year. And whilst  this had not 
been achieved,  she said that projections  like this were  not unique  at that time, 1984. The 
investment performance  had been  lower than anticipated and Phoenix  had explained that 
the fund value wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said that whilst  the sale was 
before regulation, the adviser should  not have misled him. He said that the projection for 
growth at 10 per cent had not even  been  completed  and questioned how much  he would 
have needed to contribute to achieve the pension of £39,000 that was estimated at the time 
of sale.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint.
For the avoidance of doubt, this decision addresses issues  relating to performance and 
charges. It does not deal with any complaint about the sale.  I understand that Phoenix has 
responded to those  issues  separately.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that fund charges have been applied  incorrectly.  I agree with 
the adjudicator  that these have been applied in line with the terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN89673162I appreciate Mr Cs concerns about  the performance  of this plan. He has paid into it for close  
to 45 years but the final pension is only a fraction of that projected  when  the policy was sold 
to him. I understand his frustration  and upset about that.
But the plan was sold 45 years ago before the financial services industry was regulated as it 
is now. Whilst its true that Mr C should  not have been misled, using a projected rate of 
growth of 14 per cent would not have  been  uncommon at that time. It reflected very different 
investment conditions to those we have experienced since then, particularly over the last 
twenty years  or so.
Investment involves risk, and some investments perform better than others. This service 
does not normally  consider complaints  which relate purely to investment performance.  Many 
investment decisions  and choices will have been made since this plan started. Decisions like 
these are largely matters  for a business and involve its commercial discretion, expertise and 
professional judgement. It is just not possible to examine each of these decisions now with a 
view to changing them. This would involve using  the benefit  of hindsight  which  we cannot  do.
I have noted that the format of the annual statements has changed and that this highlighted 
to Mr C the (poor) level of investment performance. But its also true that he has been sent 
annual statements over the years and whilst these may not specifically have identified 
annual growth, they did set out the fund value along  with projections of future benefits. One 
example is the statement from 2005. This stated  a fund value of around £20,000 and 
projected the future pension benefits  at a range between  £2,670  and £6,460 per year 
depending on future growth. These  benefits are nowhere near the £39,000 Mr C has 
referred to. So I think he knew or ought  to have known for some time that the final benefits  
were not going  to reach the levels that were  discussed in 1984.
I also note Mr Cs concern that all the projections in the original illustrations were not 
complete. But I dont think that is something upon which I could comment on, or reach any 
determination, now over 40 years later. I do appreciate and recognise Mr Cs concerns but, 
for the reasons given, I cannot uphold his complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8967316