K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about a motor insurance  policy that he attempted to take out with Cuvva  
Limited.
 
background
In November 2018, Mr M attempted to purchase a motor insurance policy  from Cuvva via its 
app. On the same day, the police  stopped  him whilst driving  and told him that he was driving  
without insurance. Mr M says that the police asked  him to insure  his car and his girlfriend 
attempted to arrange another policy. That was unsuccessful, so the police impounded his 
car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Cuvva had made an error. She said that Mr M didnt make 
the payment for the policy.
Mr M disagreed with the adjudicator. He said he tried to obtain a policy before the police 
stopped him. Mr M said he was aware  of the police checks on his route  to work, so he 
wouldnt have driven without insurance. He said that hed made that mistake before and 
wouldnt do it again. 
Mr M says that he was misled by the pop-up message, which said, hooray you are Cuvvad. 
He says that he had enough money  in his account  to pay for the policy. Mr M says that he 
was in a hurry and was sure that hed purchased  a policy. He denies that he did anything 
fraudulent. Mr M maintains that this was a systems error on Cuvvas  part. 
The adjudicator said that Cuvvas process  is to provide a pop-up  message which  says 
hooray  you are Cuvvad  once payment has been successful. She said that Mr M had used 
the app before, so she could understand if he thought hed seen that message but the policy  
wasnt in place here. The adjudicator maintained  that Cuvva  wasnt responsible for the policy  
not being in place. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr M has very strong feelings about this matter.  Hes 
provided detailed  submissions to support his complaint.  Ive read all this carefully and taken  
it all into consideration  when making  my decision.  But I trust that he wont take as a 
discourtesy the fact that I focus  on what I consider to be the central issue.  That is, whether 
Cuvva made a mistake.
Ive seen Cuvvas records of Mr Ms activity on the app on the morning of the relevant day. 
The records  show that Mr M made several attempts to pay. None of the attempts were 
successful. The records also show that Mr M didnt provide valid photographs of his car, as 
require by Cuvva. 
Ref: DRN88302852Based on what Ive seen,  theres nothing to support Mr Ms recollection  that he received 
confirmation that his policy was in place on this occasion. Mr M wasnt  successful in 
purchasing a policy. Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that Cuvva made an error here. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but there are no grounds on which  to uphold  his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8830285