K820x#14complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Coventry Building Society couldnt get back a transfer  shed 
mistakenly made to the wrong person.  
background
Mrs D wanted to transfer £2,500 from her account with Coventry  to her daughter, who Ill call 
Miss D1. Mrs D went to a local branch with a slip of paper Miss D1 had given her containing 
bank details. Mrs D made  the transfer  using these details. 
But when Miss D1 checked her account  the following day, the money  hadnt  arrived. At this 
point, they saw the wrong bank details  had been  used. They went  to the Coventry branch 
straight away that same day and told the society about the mistake. Coventry then asked  the 
bank whod received the money  to return it, if it could. 
But by this time, it seems  the money had already been withdrawn from this wrong  bank 
account. This meant the receiving bank couldnt return  the £2,500 to Mrs D. When  Coventry 
told her this, she raised a complaint. In short,  the society told her there was nothing else it 
could do. 
So Mrs D brought  her complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into this issue. In brief,  
he agreed that Coventry hadnt done  anything wrong. Mrs D wasnt  happy with this. So her 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
I would point out here that Im aware  that Mrs D has also complained  about  the actions of 
the bank who received  the £2,500 transfer.  That complaint has been  dealt with totally 
separately. One of my fellow ombudsmen has already issued a decision on that complaint.  
So I wont  be commenting on it any further.  My final decision deals solely  with the actions of 
Coventry. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Its not disputed  that Mrs D was given the wrong bank details by her daughter.  I dont know 
whose bank details  were on the slip of paper Miss D1 gave to her mother.  But its clear they 
werent Miss D1s. Its also not disputed that Coventry transferred the money to the account 
details it was given  by Mrs D. What I need to decide  is if Coventry acted fairly and 
reasonably when trying to recover the money for Mrs D once it knew  the transfer had gone 
to the wrong account by mistake. 
Where there is clear  evidence  of a genuine  mistake, the relevant regulations  require 
Coventry, as the payment sender, to contact  the payment receiver within  two working days 
of being made aware of it. It should  ask the receiver  to protect  the money from being spent, 
if its not already  too late. If the payment receiver is able to protect the money, it should be 
returned to the sender within 20 working days. 
Ref: DRN82475082The transfer was made on Monday 17 December 2018. I can see that Coventry contacted 
the receiving bank the next day. This was the same day Mrs D told it about the mistake.  
Coventry asked the receiving bank to protect the transferred money. 
But all of the £2,500 had been withdrawn from the receiving bank less than three hours after 
it had arrived there.  This meant, by the time Coventry got in touch the next day, there was no 
money left to protect.  This in turn meant there  was no money  for the receiving bank to return  
to Mrs Ds account with Coventry.  
In such cases, the relevant regulations also require Coventry to tell Mrs D the recovery  
attempt hadnt  been successful, and also about other options she may wish to pursue. It 
should do this within 20 working days.  
I can see that Coventry wrote to Mrs D on 16 January 2019 explaining that the receiving 
bank hadnt been able to return the money.  The letter also outlined  that if she wanted to take 
the matter further  she should get independent legal advice and/or contact Citizens  Advice. 
After taking all the available  evidence into consideration,  I think Coventry did all that it was 
required to do by the relevant regulations, all within the correct time span. So Im satisfied 
theres no fair and reasonable  basis for me to direct it to do anything else. 
For completeness, Ive also looked at the payment instruction form signed by Mrs D. This 
form contained the account number  and sort code for the transfer.  It would have been good  
practice for Coventry to have warned Mrs D that, at that time,  it would  be these unique 
identifiers that would be used to make the transfer,  not the name  of the account holder. 
I would also note that the bank account name on the payment instruction form wasnt that of 
Miss D1. It was in the name of a Miss D2. As I said above, its not clear to me whose bank 
details were on the slip of paper Mrs D was given by Miss D1. Its also not clear to me why 
Miss D1 had these bank  details. 
The available evidence doesnt  show me that Coventry told Mrs D that only the sort code 
and account number would be used to process  the transfer. So Ive thought  about  what 
Mrs D would have done if shed been told this. I dont  think she would have  done  anything 
different at all. 
I say this because  Mrs D wanted to make  a transfer to Miss D1. Shed been  given all the 
payment details by Miss D1. There was absolutely no reason for her to doubt  there  was 
anything wrong  with the details that her daughter  had given to her. Mrs D signed the form, 
containing all these  details, instructing  Coventry  to make the payment. 
Theres nothing to show that Coventry should  have been aware  there was anything  wrong 
with the details Mrs D had given it until she raised the issue the day after the transfer. It 
follows that I think it was fair and reasonable for Coventry to do what Mrs D asked and follow  
her instructions to make the payment transfer.  
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Coventry  has treated  Mrs D fairly and reasonably here.  I can 
fully understand  how upsetting it must be for Mrs D that her transfer didnt go to Miss D1 as 
planned. But Coventry isnt responsible for her not being able to get this money returned. It 
seems to me that its the person who withdrew  the money - less than three hours after the 
transfer  whos responsible for that. 
Ref: DRN82475083my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8247508