K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Lycamoney  Financial Services Ltd wont  refund him money  that hed asked 
them to transfer  abroad but wasnt ever received. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional findings by way of a provisional  
decision, which included  the relevant background. A copy  of it is attached below, and it 
forms part of this final decision.
Both parties  responded to my provisional decision to say they accepted it.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and as both parties  have responded to say they accept my provisional  
decision, I see no reason  to reach  a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
putting things right
As Ive reached the same conclusion  as in my provisional decision, Lycamoney  Financial  
Services Ltd must do the following:
Refund Mr K the £450 payment he made;
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for the trouble and upset. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Lycamoney Financial Services Ltd must follow the instructions Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82827742copy provisional  decision
complaint
Mr K complains that Lycamoney Financial Services Ltd wont refund him money  that hed asked them  to 
transfer abroad but wasnt ever received.  
background
Mr K arranged for a transfer of money abroad using Lycamoney  on 11 February 2017. He got an electronic 
receipt for the transfer, but the money  was never received in the account he was sending it to. Mr K then 
spent several  months  trying  to get Lycamoney to give him a refund, and when they didnt agree  he raised a 
complaint. 
Lycamoney initially said that the transfer had been delayed as Mr K hadnt included  an IBAN number in the 
transfer request. However, when Mr K said this wasnt needed for Canadian  bank accounts, they then told 
him that the transfer had been completed on 15 February 2017. So they didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mr K didnt agree.  He gave Lycamoney a copy of the bank account statement  where the transfer shouldve  
been received  but this showed no entries for date theyd said the transfer had taken place. Mr K sent 
numerous requests to Lycamoney to ask for proof that the Canadian bank had received the money - but they 
didnt give him the confirmation he asked for. So he asked this service  to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator looked at the information Lycamoney had provided, but she couldnt see that the transfer 
had been received when they said. So she asked them for further information to show this - but despite 
several requests it wasnt  received. So the investigator upheld the complaint on the basis she couldnt  see 
the transfer had actually taken place. 
As Lycamoney didnt respond to the investigators view, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator, but 
for different reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the evidence from both parties, and I have some sympathy for Lycamoneys position  as they 
received confirmation a transfer was made.  But they havent sent in paperwork that might support their case  
- despite  several reminders. And I can only decide a complaint using the evidence available to me.
Ive seen the receipt  showing that Mr K transferred the £450 via Lycamoney on 11 February  2017, and the 
account number  the payment shouldve credited.  Mr K has transferred money  using  Lycamoney before and 
told us that he would normally  receive  a confirmation email showing that the money  had been received when 
the receiving account was credited - which he didnt get in this case. And Ive also seen  the corresponding  
bank statement for February 2017, which shows no credits were made  to the receiving account from 11 
February 2017 to 15 February 2017. So Im satisfied that the transfer wasnt credited to the account when  
Lycamoney said it was. 
Lycamoney have told us they feel that the receipt and the swift transaction statement show that the transfer 
was received. But I dont agree. Ive looked at the receipt which shows that the transfer was made  - but it 
doesnt prove  the money was received.  Ive also looked  at the swift transaction statement, but this doesnt 
show the bank code or account number  to cross reference - and prove  the payment  was received. 
Furthermore, although the swift statement shows bank names within  the transactions, none of those  show 
the actual name of the bank where the receiving account was held. 
Ref: DRN82827743Ive also looked at the different  swift codes that are quoted and none of these  appear to match that of the 
designated receiving  bank. I recognise that international transfers do travel  between different banks to 
enable the money to get to its final destination and the swift statement Ive seen may only relate  to part of the 
transaction. But Lycamoney havent provided  any further evidence that shows this was the case for Mr Ks 
transfer. So based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied  that the £450 wasnt received into the account Mr K 
transferred it to. 
Mr K has said he feels that he should receive  some compensation because of the issues hes experienced 
whilst trying to resolve  his complaint. I do think that considering the circumstances of the complaint, 
Lycamoney should pay Mr K £200 for the trouble  and upset they have caused him. They  didnt respond to 
him for several months  at a time, return his phone calls when they said they would  or give him the 
information hed asked for - despite  numerous  requests.  Nor did they respond in full to our requests which  
has further, and unreasonably, prolonged  resolution  of the case.      
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Lycamoney Financial Services Ltd to:
Refund Mr K the £450 payment he made;
Pay Mr K £200 compensation for the trouble  and upset. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr K to accept  or reject  my 
decision before 4 January 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8282774