K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) was 
irresponsible in its lending  to him.
background
Based on the information provided, Satsuma  Loans provided Mr T with seven instalment 
loans between January and November  2017.
Loan Date Term Amount
1 5 Jan 2017 12 months £600
2 9 Feb 2017 4 months £150
3 13 Mar 2017 12 months £300
4 4 Apr 2017 12 months £800
5 23 Sep 2017 1 month £200
6 3 Oct 2017 7 months £350
7 23 Nov 2017 12 months £750
Mr T says that the time of the loans he was in a spiral of debt taking out new loans to repay 
existing debt. He says that had proper checks been carried out the loans wouldnt have been 
provided.
Satsuma Loans  says that before the loans were provided it carried  out a number of checks  
to ensure the loans were affordable. It says that based on these checks the lending was 
responsible.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had seen enough  to say that loans one to five shouldnt  have 
been provided. But she thought that by loan six, Mr Ts pattern of borrowing suggested he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans. 
Satsuma Loans  didnt accept our adjudicators  view.  Mr T responded to the view saying that 
he thought all of the loans  were  irresponsible. He said he repaid  loans  early  because he was 
borrowing from other lenders to do this. 
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr T could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN81414932the lower  a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr T could sustainably repay  his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think she had enough  to say that loans one to five shouldnt  have 
been provided. I have  looked through the information and while I think that further  checks  
could have been carried out before loans four and five, I agree with our adjudicator  that there 
isnt enough evidence to say that loans one to five shouldnt have been lent.
By the time loan six was provided to Mr T, I think his pattern of borrowing suggested he had 
become reliant  on short term lending. I say this because he had taken out six loans in 
around nine months  and while  he had repaid loans early, he was taking out new loans 
shortly after repaying previous loans. I think this suggests he needed to borrow  to meet  his 
repayments and ongoing costs. Therefore I uphold this complaint in regard to loans six and 
seven.
Mr T has said that he has repaid loan six but still has a balance outstanding on loan seven.
Ref: DRN81414933my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  six and seven. 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) should:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr T towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance,  not including anything  
that has already  refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr T which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr T originally made the 
payments, to the 
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr T as though they had been repayments  
of the principal. If this results in Mr T having  made overpayments then these should 
be refunded along  with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr T. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Provident  Personal Credit  Limited should try to agree  an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr T.
E.The overall pattern  of Mr Ts borrowing for loans six and seven means any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so all entries about loan six and loan 
seven when the principal that was borrowed has been repaid, should  be removed 
from Mr Ts credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as 
Satsuma Loans) to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr T a certificate  showing 
how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8141493