K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the way Legal  & General  Insurance Limited (L&G) handled his home 
insurance claim for water damage to his house. 
background
Mr L took out a home insurance policy with L&G in February 2017.  At the end of March 2018 
he made a claim for damage caused by an escape  of water.  Mr L had been undertaking 
renovations at the house and when he removed  some kitchen units he found  the floor was 
soft. He also identified  a leak to the cold water pipe to the boiler. He said he thought  the 
laminate floor and floor joists had been damaged.  
L&G appointed its surveyor to validate the claim.  He visited the house  and inspected the 
reported damage. He thought the floor damage had been going on for years and couldnt  
have gone unnoticed. He said sections  of the floor were collapsing  and there  was evidence 
of rising damp. L&G declined the claim on the grounds that the damage wasnt the result  of a 
one off insured  event  that was covered by the policy. The surveyor recommended  that Mr L 
attend to the damp issue. 
At the end of May 2018, Mr L made  a second claim to L&G. He said that recent heavy rain 
caused damage to the outside of his bay window and that the rain had started  to get into the 
house through the cracks in its structure.  He also said his gutters  had become blocked in the 
bad weather and that they overflowed  causing water  to be forced towards  his bay window 
causing cracks and leaks. 
Mr L used his policy home emergency cover. The home emergency provider sent a 
contractor round who reported that the wet patch on the kitchen ceiling was most likely due 
to the very badly  perished pitched  roof next to where the patch was. The contractor  advised  
Mr L to remove and replace the roof because it was cracking and falling  apart allowing water  
to get inside when it rained. The contractor advised  that such damage wasnt covered under 
his home  emergency  policy. 
L&G also sent a surveyor to inspect the damage a few days  later. He thought the bay 
window and its canopy roof were showing signs of pre-existing damage.  He was unable  to 
determine if the damage was the result  of the damp identified in the previous claim (and was 
therefore pre-existing)  or had occurred due to a one-off incident of rain. So L&G asked Mr L 
to show that hed had the work to address  the damp identified  in the previous claim carried 
out. L&G said it wanted written proof from his contractor detailing  the work  undertaken to 
resolve the damp issue. 
Mr L complained to L&G. It looked into his complaint but didnt think  itd done  anything 
wrong. It acknowledged that hed sent in a quote  for the work to his house (that itemised 
work including that to rectify the damp  issue)  and copies of his bank statements showing 
payments hed made. But it said it couldnt confirm any connection between the estimate and 
the payments  so couldnt be sure the work to rectify  the damp was complete. It said that as 
Mr L hadnt been able to contact his builder to get him to confirm the work had been done 
because hed ceased trading, it wouldnt be able to progress his claim. But it said if he was 
able to get a report at any time it would of course consider it. 
Ref: DRN89747742Unhappy with L&Gs findings, Mr L complained to this service. He said whether the damp 
issue had been  addressed was irrelevant. He said the fact was heavy rain had led to water 
getting into his house and had caused  cracks and leaks. Our investigator looked  into Mr Ls 
complaint but didnt  recommend that it was upheld. Mr L disagreed with our investigators 
findings so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Not all types of damage sustained  by a home will be covered by home insurance policies. 
Its the policyholders  responsibility to show on the face of it that the damage  they are 
claiming for is the result of one of the insured events listed in the policy   theft, storm, 
escape of water etc. If the policyholder can do so then the insurer  must accept the claim 
unless its able to rely on one of the policy exclusions  to defeat it. 
Mr L says the damage was caused by heavy  rain. L&G has disagreed.  It says the bay 
window and its canopy roof were showing signs of pre-existing damage.  It said that because 
the house had dried  out inside by the time its surveyor visited it couldnt establish if the 
damage was the result  of a storm or was pre-existing damp. So it asked Mr L to show that 
hed had the damp issue identified under the first claim two months before dealt with. 
Mr L thinks whether the damp issue was dealt with isnt relevant to his second  claim. Im 
unable to agree with him. L&G is being asked to accept Mr Ls claim so it isnt unreasonable  
for it to want to know whether it is liable for it under the policy  terms. It isnt unreasonable  for 
it to want to know that the damage Mr L is now claiming for isnt that previously declined 
under the first claim. So it asked Mr L to show that hed had the damp issue  identified in April 
2018 rectified. 
I accept that Mr L provided L&G with some evidence to this effect. L&G doesnt  think  it is 
enough to show  that the damp work was undertaken. So it cant  say that its liable  for the 
damage claimed by Mr L under claim two. I dont think that L&G has unfairly reached that 
conclusion. The evidence Mr L has provided is a quote from his builder. It is undated and 
contains no address,  letterhead or VAT number.  It doesnt show that the damp was rectified 
and what the cost for it was. And I cant ignore  that the payments Mr L says he made  to his 
builder, for which hes provided evidence of in the form of his bank statements, largely pre-
date the first claim (£22,000 worth of payments made out of a total of £25,400). 
Given the other works listed,  I would expect that the damp wouldve needed  attending to 
early on in the job. That would mean (according to the payment schedule set out by Mr L) 
before the date of the first claim when the damp  was identified  by L&Gs surveyors.  
I have to decide whether L&G have unfairly  declined Mr Ls second claim.  I dont  think it has. 
Not unreasonably it asked him to prove that the damp had been rectified so that it could rule 
it out as a possible (pre-existing) cause of the damage it was being asked to cover under 
claim two. If the damage claimed for under claim two was caused by pre-existing damage 
then L&G wouldnt be liable. So its not unreasonable  for it to want to establish whether the 
damage was new or pre-existing. 
Ref: DRN89747743For the sake of completeness, even if I were to accept Mr Ls point that either the damp  had 
been repaired, or it wasnt relevant  if it was repaired, I still dont think  this is a claim L&G has 
unfairly declined.  Leaving aside the issue of the damp repairs,  its accepted that there was a 
storm on or around the time the claim was made. Damage caused by a storm event is 
covered under the policy providing  it can be shown that the storm is the main cause of the 
damage and not that it merely highlighted some pre-existing maintenance issue.
 
Here theres evidence from the home  emergency contractor and L&Gs  surveyor  that there  
was pre-existing damage to the canopy roof to the bay window and it was this that was 
allowing water to get inside the property. A well maintained property should be able to 
withstand the heavy rain (which fell without any reported wind) on the day in question. So its 
reasonable to think that rain didnt get into the house because of the storm, it got in because 
there were issues with the canopy roof to the bay window. And if there  hadnt  been I dont 
expect the rain wouldve got in.
Finally, I have noted Mr Ls request that I listen  to the phone call hes identified. I have done 
so. Ive also noted his request that he speak to me before I issue my decision. As our 
investigator said, an ombudsman doesnt usually speak to either party  before reaching  a 
decision. Thats so impartiality  can be maintained and accusations  of bias (as a result of 
speaking to just one of the parties to a dispute) can be avoided. I would like to say that I 
have reviewed this complaint in full before reaching  this decision. And, having done so, I 
dont think that L&G has unreasonably declined  Mr Ls claim for water penetration to his 
house, so Im unable  to uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8974774