K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a Birmingham Midshires-branded buy-to-let  mortgage  Mr G used to 
have with Bank of Scotland plc. The mortgaged property was repossessed and sold because  
of arrears. Mr G complains that Birmingham Midshires  (BM)  sold it for less than it was 
worth. Hes now being pursued  for the resulting shortfall. Mr G also believes the property 
was over-valued when  he bought it in 2007.
background
Our investigator didnt  think BM had done anything wrong. He said,  in summary  that BM had 
sold the house for a price that was consistent with the professional  opinion  of the valuers it 
consulted before putting the house  on the market. Mr G has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive not gone into great  detail in setting  out what the complaints  about. Thats  deliberate; 
ours is an informal service  for resolving disputes between financial businesses  and their 
customers. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on 
what I think is relevant. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.
One issue that wont be covered in my decision is Mr Gs belief that the property was 
over-valued when he bought it. Theres a good  reason for that; our rules only allow  us to 
consider a complaint if the business  has already had an opportunity  to address  it. Mr Gs 
complaint letter to BM dated  13 May 2019 doesnt  mention the original valuation,  and nor 
does BMs final response of 23 May 2019. 
Mr G does mention that original valuation in an email also dated  13 May 2019  sending his 
complaint to BM. In that email he says:  In relation to the attached letter,  please  note this is 
registered with the FSA (sic) as a complaint. As part of their investigation they have 
requested the valuation  performed at the time of the purchase.  Could you send me a copy  to 
forward to them.
Leaving aside for the moment  that we are not the FSA (that organisation ceased  to exist 
almost ten years ago when it was replaced by the current regulator  of financial businesses, 
the Financial Conduct Authority), we cant possibly have asked for a copy  of the original 
valuation to assist  our investigation  at the time Mr G sent that email to BM. Thats because 
its timed  at 11.15am on 13 May 2019,  and the first contact we received from Mr G about the 
case was when he copied his email and letter to us at 12.01pm,  about  three  quarters of an 
hour later.   
To be clear, if Mr G wishes to complain that his property was over-valued when he bought  it, 
hell need to raise a separate  complaint with BM, and allow  it to investigate and issue  a final 
Ref: DRN86347332response. If he does  that, and isnt happy with the outcome, then Mr G can refer that 
complaint to us, and we will first of all decide  if it falls within  our jurisdiction. If it does, well 
then consider that complaint on its merits. 
On the case as Im able to decide  it, Ive considered  all the available evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. If the 
available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach  our findings on what  we 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats  broadly the 
same test that the courts use in civil cases.
Mr G initially disputed the amount of the outstanding debt at the date of sale, saying it was 
more than hed borrowed. Our investigator explained to him that this was down to the arrears 
that had accrued over several  years,  and that Mr G had received regular statements over the 
years, showing the change  in his outstanding balance. 
Ive looked at the available evidence, and fear theres been a misunderstanding  on Mr Gs 
part. He hasnt pointed  to there  being  specific accounting errors; rather, it looks to me as 
though he has taken the outstanding balance quoted  on the closing statement and 
interpreted that as the amount he borrowed in 2007.  Its not; its the amount he owed  at the 
time of the sale twelve years later, taking into account the many years during which he 
struggled to meet the payments that had been due. 
If Mr G genuinely thinks there have been accounting  errors, hed need to have the account 
audited  at his own cost  by a suitably-qualified  professional. If such  an audit revealed 
accounting errors to his detriment, Mr G could bring a fresh complaint using the audit as 
evidence and include the cost of commissioning it in his redress claim.
As to the sale in possession, BMs duty was to sell the property for the best price  achievable 
within a reasonable period of time (my italics).  It may be a rather subjective test but the 
approach we take, in essence,  is that a lender shouldnt sell for too low a price to achieve a 
quick sale nor unduly  delay a sale (thus potentially adding further to the borrowers  interest 
costs) to achieve an unrealistically high price.
Its about finding a balance between  the two, and to ensure that happens, lenders are 
required to obtain  a minimum of two independent  valuations from suitably-qualified 
professionals, and then to market the property  with a view to achieving a selling price at, or 
close to, the valuations provided  by those independent professionals. In the case of Mr Gs 
property, Im satisfied thats  what BM did.
The highest  of the valuations BM received was £75,000, the lowest  was £60,000. The 
property was marketed  in November 2018  at an initial asking price £70,000. Three  offers  
were received, ranging between £65,000 and £80,000, but all of these fell through.  The 
reasons differed but all were to do with the buyer, not the seller. Eventually, with the property 
having been on the market for five months,  BM received  an offer of £60,000 in March 2019,  
and accepted it. 
I think that decision was reasonable.  Ultimately, any property is only worth what someone is 
willing to pay for it at any given time. Here, a sale was achieved  at a price  within  (albeit only 
just) the original valuation  range that had been provided five months  earlier. Given  the 
timeframe, I consider  the sale was completed  at the best price  achievable,  bearing  in mind 
that the mortgage continued to accrue  interest  until the sale was completed.
Ref: DRN86347333My remit  doesnt extend to questioning  the content of the reports. These  were  the 
professional opinions of the parties BM was required  to consult.  It was entitled to rely on those 
opinions when deciding  how much  to try and sell the property  for. 
Putting all of the above together, my overall  conclusion is that the shortfall BM is seeking is a 
valid debt for which it can fairly  hold Mr G liable,  and can fairly seek  repayment  proposals 
from him.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of 
it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8634733