K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from Paragon Bank Plc when he wanted  to 
open a Cash ISA account.
background
Mr P wanted  to open a Cash ISA account with Paragon and transfer some funds to it from 
another bank.  The bank  he was transferring the money from didnt have the facility to carry 
out money transfers online. So he asked Paragon to send him a paper transfer  request  form.  
Mr P called Paragon on 14 September 2018 because hed received a letter  from them but it 
didnt include this form. The advisor  explained  that the letter  related to a different matter.  
Mr P then said hed been able to download  the form instead, and had posted it the previous 
day. He asked if Paragon had received it. The advisor told him they hadnt yet, and gave  him 
some information about how the ISA transfer process worked.
Mr P called again on 25 September 2018  and spoke to the same advisor. He was told that 
his form had now been received and the funds  had been requested  from his other  bank. 
Mr P asked how Paragon would notify  him about  what was happening. He was told that as it 
was an online account hed need  to log in online to check his account balance.  The advisor 
also said they werent sure whether hed be notified  when the ISA transfer  was complete. So 
Mr P asked to speak to a manager, but there  wasnt one available.
On the 29 September 2018  a customer service manager from Paragon called Mr P. Mr P 
complained and was offered £15 compensation for the poor service  hed received from the 
advisor on the previous calls hed made.  
Mr P doesnt  feel this offer of compensation is sufficient given the stress  and anxiety these 
events caused  him, so he brought  his complaint to our service. He feels Paragons advisors 
were rude and unfriendly. He says he was given  incorrect information when he was told that 
the bank wouldnt  contact him to let him know when the funds arrived in his account. And 
hes unhappy that it took 3 days for a manager  to call him back to listen  to his complaint. He 
says the manager then promised he would receive  a letter  from them by the 3 October 2018, 
but it didnt arrive within this timeframe.
Our investigator listened to the calls Mr P had with Paragon and felt the advisor could have 
handled things  better.  But they thought the offer of compensation from Paragon  was fair in 
the circumstances.  Mr P disagrees,  so the case  has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr P will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask Paragon  to increase their offer of compensation here. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the calls Mr P had with Paragon on the 14 and 25 September  2018. I 
understand why hes upset  with the way he was spoken to by their advisor. I agree that at 
some points in the conversation their manner  wasnt very friendly, especially on the second 
call. But I do feel that the advisor tried to assist  him and answer his questions. So I think that 
the offer of compensation Paragon have made for the level of service  he received here is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN86476562Mr P feels  he was given incorrect information on the second call, so Ive listened to it 
carefully several times.  Mr P asked what notification  hed receive when his transfer of funds 
had been completed, and was told hed be sent an email. He then wanted to know how the 
bank would let him know  that theyd received his application to make this transfer. The 
advisor told him Paragon  doesnt notify customers until the process  is complete. But that 
they were able to confirm  now that his application had been received on 17 September  2018 
and the funds had been requested from his other  bank. And they let him know this process 
could take up to 15 days.
When Mr P asked  again if hed be notified when the transfer of funds was complete the 
advisor said they werent sure and told him it was an online  account, so he could keep  
checking his balance online to see if the transfer  had gone  through. Mr P asked if he could 
speak to someone with a better understanding of the process, but the advisor  explained no-
one was available.  They told him that he wouldnt receive a letter when the transfer was 
complete but that they could put him on hold to double check whether hed be sent an email. 
Mr P asked again if he could speak to a manager  or if someone  could call him back. The 
advisor told him theyd  need to check,  and then said theyd ask a manager to call him back  
but that they couldnt say what  time that would  be.
I understand why Mr P had lost confidence in the advisor he was speaking to as they werent  
certain of the answer to his question.  But I cant hear that they gave him any incorrect 
information. And in fact they offered to go and double  check  the process so they could 
confirm the correct information to him. I think this was reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr P is unhappy that he didnt receive  a call back from a manager until the 29 September 
2018. And hes frustrated  that the manager hadnt  been told he wanted to make  a complaint. 
I agree  the call back took longer than Id expect. However Mr P didnt actually tell the advisor 
that he wanted to complain. Hed said that he wanted  to speak to someone with a better 
understanding of the ISA transfer  process.  And given Mr P had been updated on the status 
of his application on the previous call, I dont feel the impact  of this delay was such  that 
Paragon should  pay him compensation.
Mr P says he was told by the customer service manager that he would receive a letter from 
them about  his complaint  by the 2 or 3 October 2018. I can see the letter Mr P was sent is 
dated the 10 October 2018, and I understand he was disappointed with the length of time it 
took for him to receive this and decided not to do business with Paragon. However  it was 
sent within the timescale banks have to respond to complaints like this. So whilst I 
appreciate these timescales werent explained  to him, Im not going to ask Paragon to do 
anything further  here.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outline above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
Ref: DRN86476563ombudsman
Ref: DRN8647656