K820x#14complaint
Ms S has a secured loan with Welcome Financial Services Limited. She says the loan was 
mis-sold as she wasnt told how much it would cost her overall,  and had she been told that 
then she wouldnt have  taken it out. Ms S is also unhappy that the debt was recently sold to 
a third party business for an amount  that was broadly  the same  amount as shed originally 
borrowed.
background
I issued a decision earlier this month. In that decision I explained  which parts  of Ms S 
complaint we could  and couldnt consider. I said we could only consider things that had 
happened since June  2012 (which was six years prior to Ms S complaining  to Welcome). Of 
the complaint  shed  made that only related  to the size of the debt outstanding when it was 
sold to a third party  business.
Our investigator had already told Ms S that he didnt think  the complaint should  be upheld  
and as Ms S wasnt happy with the outcome I now issue this decision as the final stage of 
our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Welcome sold the debt to a third party business  in June  2018 with a balance at the time of 
£15,752. I understand Ms Ss confusion as she borrowed £16,181 in July 2008 (plus a sum 
for insurances which I understand was removed  in 2011 when Ms S complained  about  them) 
so it seems over ten years the balance  hadnt  really gone down.
As I explained in my earlier  decision, I can only consider things that have happened since  
June 2012 and at that time the balance was £17,471.87.  All thats  happened  since then is 
that Ms S made some payments to the loan, with the last being  made  in December 2015, 
and the debt has been passed to the third party business. Theres  been  no interest or 
charges added to the account in that period as interest was frozen in September 2011 and 
the last charge was added to the account  that same month.
Welcome was allowed  to sell the debt to a third party and so its done nothing wrong there. 
Its made all the information available to the new lender so the new lender will be aware that 
Welcome had agreed to freeze the interest. Theres nothing more Welcome  needs to do.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am 
required to ask Ms S to accept or reject my decision before  13 December 2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84114482
Ref: DRN8411448