K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan taken out by Mr and Mrs M with 1st Stop Home  Loans 
Limited (referred to here as 1st Stop). Mrs M has dealt  with the complaint throughout. She is 
unhappy that 1st Stop has declined her offer to pay a reduced amount to close the loan 
account (known as a short settlement).  
To settle  the complaint Mr and Mrs M want 1st Stop to refund the broker fees and agree a 
short settlement  figure.
background
On 19 March 2018, after taking advice from a broker, Mr and Mrs M took out a secured  
second charge  loan with 1st Stop. They borrowed £13,000, plus a lender application fee of 
£995 and a broker fee of £1,430, making  a total loan of £15,425. The purpose of the loan 
was debt consolidation. The loan term was ten years, with the first five years on a fixed rate 
of 18.00% per annum,  thereafter reverting to 1st Stops standard variable rate. There was an 
early repayment charge  equivalent to two months interest if the loan was repaid early.
On 1 April 2019  Mrs M complained to 1st Stop about the loan.  She said the interest rate was 
too high, the fees were crippling and she didnt know how long they could continue  making  
payments. Mrs M said that, because of her husbands health, she wanted  to settle the loan 
early and made an offer of £10,500. (At the time the actual amount to redeem the loan was 
about £15,500.)
The following  day, 1st Stop contacted Mrs M to let her know that the short settlement 
request had been declined. Mrs M escalated the complaint but 1st Stop didnt uphold it.
Mrs M complained to us. She says that 1st Stop are loan sharks who prey on vulnerable  
people. She says that she didnt need a loan of £13,000, only £3,000.  She thinks  its unfair  
that 1st Stop wont accept  her short settlement offer. Mrs M argues that theyve paid about 
£4,000 to 1st Stop, so her offer to settle  the loan with a payment of £10,500 is fair.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  Mrs M disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
fees added  to the loan: The loan was sold by a broker, not by 1st Stop. I note Mr and Mrs 
M made a separate  complaint against  the broker about the suitability of the advice to take 
out the loan. A final decision was issued on 22 July 2019, from which I note that the 
complaint was not upheld. 
The ombudsman was satisfied that the fees about  which Mrs M is unhappy  were  clarified  
and explained  to her before the loan was taken out, as well as with the implications of adding  
the fees to the loan. She was also satisfied the fees were set out in the mortgage 
documentation.
Ref: DRN89090332Because 1st Stop didnt sell the loan,  I will make no further comment  on the points Mrs Ms 
raised about this, including the amount Mrs M says she needed to borrow, or the fees. The 
final decision  issued on 22 July 2019 is our last word on those matters.
In relation to the current complaint, Ive looked at what  Mrs M and 1st Stop have said.  
interest rate:  Im satisfied the interest rate reflects Mr and Mrs Ms poor credit history,  past 
defaults and accounts that were in arrears  or defaulted at the time of the application.  1st 
Stop is entitled to price  its products to reflect its attitude to risk  in other  words,  looking at 
the applicants  past financial history and assessing  the likelihood of future default. The 
interest rate on this loan reflects that and, in relation to this type of loan for this type of 
borrower, is not excessive  or extortionate. 
short settlement: Mr and Mrs M have a contract  with 1st Stop under which  they have 
borrowed a sum of money.  The debts repayable, with interest, over a specified  period but it 
can be repaid sooner  than the due date, in line with the terms of the contract. Mrs M has 
offered to do this but wants 1st Stop, as an incentive, to give a discount off the outstanding 
balance. 1st Stop could  do that, but has chosen not to. 
The remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to resolve,  as informally as possible, 
complaints alleging maladministration and/or unfair  treatment of a consumer  in the provision  
of a financial service. But thats not what I have in front of me. 
What I have here is a request from a consumer to a business to depart from the terms of a 
mutually-agreed contract. It can choose  to do so or not; 1st Stop has chosen  not to and has 
explained to Mrs M its reasons. Thats an exercise  of commercial judgement on 1st Stops  
part. We dont generally interfere in such decisions and theres no reason for me to do so 
here. Im satisfied 1st Stop gave fair consideration to Mrs Ms request and, after doing so, 
was entitled to decline the offer.
conclusion: I know this isnt the outcome  Mr and Mrs M wanted. Ive noted what  Mrs M has 
said about her husbands  health, and I am sorry if my decision adds to his distress. But after 
carefully considering  everything Mrs M and 1st Stop have said,  Im unable  to find 1st Stop 
has done anything  wrong.
If Mr and Mrs M are in financial hardship they might find it helpful  to speak to one of the free 
debt advisory services such as Citizens Advice, Shelter or StepChange. We can provide 
contact details for those  agencies on request.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89090333
Ref: DRN8909033