K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained about the way esure  Insurance  Limited (Esure) handled a claim made 
under his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr G held a motor insurance policy with Esure. In September 2018, Mr G was involved in a 
road traffic accident  that caused damage  to his vehicle. He made a claim under the policy, 
which was accepted. Mr Gs car was taken in for repairs, which  were  completed by Esures  
approved repairer,  that Ill call S.
Mr Gs car wasnt satisfactorily repaired after the first attempt, so his car was repaired by S 
again. Mr G still noted issues  with his car, so Esure instructed independent  engineers, who 
Ill call H, to inspect the car.
H inspected the car in October 2018  and noted that the repairs  completed by S were 
substandard and further work  was necessary to rectify the issues. Mr G was unwilling to let 
S attempt  to repair his car again as hed lost faith in them. So, he sought quotes  from 
independent garages.  Mr G said he had difficulty finding a garage that was willing to take on 
the job, given  repairs had previously been  carried out. However, he found a garage,  who Ill 
call L that was prepared  to repair his car. L quoted  £5,067.11  for the work.
Esure instructed H to review Ls quote and give an opinion on whether the estimated costs 
were reasonable. On 8 November 2018 H provided  an additional report in which  it said Ls 
quote was excessive, the main reason for this being  that Ls costs were non-negotiable. It 
estimated that the actual cost of repairs would be around £2,700.26.
Esure said that it considered some  of the damage wasnt actually  attributed to the accident, 
but it was still prepared to cover  these repairs. It offered Mr G £2,700.26 to settle the claim, 
plus a hire car if one was needed whilst the repairs were carried  out. It also offered him £300 
for the trouble and upset  caused by the poor repairs.
Mr G complained. He considered the sum was too low and wouldnt actually cover  the cost 
of the repairs. He thought Esure should  pay the full sum quoted by L as no other garage hed 
visited was prepared to repair  his car. He also provided evidence from L that it was willing  to 
negotiate on the costs. Mr G also arranged for an independent engineer, V, to inspect his 
car and comment on the damage sustained, the quality of repairs  and whether Ls quote was 
reasonable.
Mr G provided  the report dated  16 December 2018 to Esure, which he felt supported  
payment of Ls estimate. He said the report had cost him £300 and he wanted Esure  to 
reimburse him for this.
Esure didnt agree and maintained the offer to pay £2,700.26. So Mr G referred his 
complaint to our service.
The investigator ultimately upheld Mr Gs complaint. She thought Esure  should  either  instruct 
another approved repairer in its network to undertake the repairs,  or pay Ls estimate. She 
didnt think Esure should pay the cost of Vs report but she recommended  it pay Mr G a 
further £150 in compensation.
Ref: DRN89295542Esure didnt agree with the investigators recommendation and asked for a final decision. It 
said it believed Mr G had been  difficult to deal with throughout the claim and suggested hed 
approached a third party, Mr K, with a view to getting his car written  off. It said Mr Ks 
involvement couldve influenced Ls estimate, which it maintained  was excessive. It also said 
the report Mr G had obtained from V wasnt necessary.
Mr G said he was disappointed that Esure had been  given the opportunity to use another of 
their approved repairers and was worried that this would lead to a substandard repair. He 
also said taking £5,067.11 in settlement wasnt without risk as there could be further 
undisclosed damage that could only be seen once the car had been  stripped.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
It isnt in dispute that the repairs completed by S were substandard and that Mr Gs car 
requires further  repair work. But the issue for me to decide is how things should be put right.
Under the terms of Mr Gs policy, Esure will either  pay to repair  damage  using  an approved 
repairer in their network or it will pay to settle  the claim. The terms say that Esure will decide 
how it settles claims.
Esure wants to pay to settle Mr Gs claim,  given  that S has already attempted  the repairs 
twice. However, it disputes  the sum payable.  According to the report it received from H, 
Esure believes a fair settlement is £2,700.26.  However, Mr G has only been able to receive 
a quote from L, which is almost double the cost. Esure believes the quote is excessive given 
how much  more it is than Hs estimate. Esure has also said Mr G received  another  quote 
from a garage Ill call W, which was for £1,062. It said it believed Mr G had rejected  this 
quote because  it was too low for the car to be considered to be written  off.
Where there is conflicting evidence, in this case the difference in costs posed by L and H, 
I have to take a view on the evidence I find to be more persuasive.
Hs quote is brief and comes from an independent engineer, rather than a garage  who would 
be undertaking the repairs. H said:
Having reviewed the supplementary repair work  required and re-calculated the costings on 
the basis of contracted repair rates and repair methods I consider that a fair and reasonable 
labour charge would  be in the region  of £1,394.40.  There would be a specialist  charge  of 
£160.00. The suggested cost of the paint and materials would amount to £446.61, the cost 
of corrosion protection would be £5.00,  the cost of the necessary new parts would be 
approximately £244.21 and the VAT liability on the total amount £450.04  giving a total 
suggested supplementary repair cost of £2700.26 subject to undisclosed damage.  Parts  
prices quoted are for guidance  only and are subject to confirmation  upon further 
dismantling.
Ref: DRN89295543In Ls quote details the following costs are outlined:
Labour - £2,010.40
Paint / materials  - £903.21
Parts - £637.98
Specialist - £671.00
VAT liability  - £844.52
In terms of the hours of labour required to put things right,  H said it would require 30 hours, 
whereas L said it would require  36 hours. So, the main differences  between the two quotes 
are the difference in the labour cost per hour, and the cost of the paint, parts and specialist 
services.
Overall, I dont  think Ls estimate is unreasonable. I say this because all of the charges set 
out by L were  fully itemised and detailed.  For example, the specialist charges are broken 
down into specific services and all of the parts required are listed individually.  On the 
contrary, Hs report simply gives  a final figure  and isnt itemised   it also says the parts 
prices quoted are for guidance  only. It appears that the main  reason why H considered Ls 
quote was excessive was because L wasnt willing  to negotiate on any of the prices. But, 
Mr G told Esure  on 12 November 2018 that L was willing to negotiate on hourly rates and 
materials. L then provided confirmation  of this by email which  Mr G forwarded to Esure on 
4 December 2018. So I think Esure wouldve known before any final decision was made  that 
L was open to negotiation, which couldve reduced  the costs.
Im also mindful that V inspected Mr Gs car and was asked to comment  on whether Ls 
quote was reasonable. V said:
In my opinion the current repair  costs set by [L] are entirely reasonable on a retail cost 
basis
V also indicated that it thought costs would  likely  rise further once the car had been 
dismantled. I think this further demonstrates  that Ls quote isnt unreasonable. Im also 
mindful that Mr G visited several  garages  and L was the only repairer who was prepared to 
undertake the job. So, whilst H believes £2,700.26 is a reasonable sum to cover the repairs,  
this isnt Mr Gs experience and ultimately,  if Esure is paying to settle  the claim, Mr G should 
be able to use this sum to fix his car.
With regard to Ws quote,  this doesnt appear to be for the full range of repairs required to fix 
Mr Gs car. It also doesnt include the cost of parts or paint. Its also significantly cheaper 
than Hs estimate, so for this reason Ive not considered it for comparison  purposes. Esure 
believes Mr G didnt want to use W because its estimate wouldnt have required the car to be 
written off. Its also referred to Mr G engaging with Mr K to influence estimates. But the 
evidence Ive seen  suggests W wasnt prepared to undertake  the work given the previous 
repairs. And V also considers Ls costs  are reasonable. So, I dont  think  theres any evidence  
to support Esures belief  that Mr G wanted  to have  the car written off. And Mr G has 
consistently told us he wants Esure to pay Ls estimate in settlement of this complaint so he 
can have his car repaired.
So, if Esure wishes to pay to settle  Mr Gs claim,  I think it should pay him the sum of 
£5,067.11. Esure  wouldnt be responsible  for any further costs  should any additional issues  
with the car be found during the repairs. However, I also think Esure  should have the option 
of undertaking  the repairs using anther approved repairer (not S). I know Mr G doesnt think 
Ref: DRN89295544its reasonable to allow  Esure to use another  approved repairer given his previous 
experience. But as per the terms of the policy, Esure can choose how to settle the claim. 
Using an approved  repairer would also give Mr G the additional  protection of a five year 
guarantee of the repair work.  
Vs report
Esure says this report wasnt  necessary because it had already agreed to undertake all of 
the repairs. It also said the cost of it, £300, was far in excess of other  companies  providing 
this service. So it didnt  think  it should have to pay anything towards this.
Mr G instructed V after receiving Esures final decision  on his claim on 3 December 2018. In 
Esures final decision, it made the following  comments:
Looking at the original  images before repairs were carried out, the wing is jutting out at the 
top near the headlamp. Due to the bumper being  pulled down with this impact, this would 
have had the opposite effect  and it would have pushed the wing in at the top and out at the 
bottom due to the weight of the bumper. Therefore this looks like it is due to previous 
damage - hence it showing  misalignment before any repairs  were carried  out. That said, 
whilst I therefore don't think it's related,  I'm prepared to take the costs  of this aspect  of the 
repairs into account.
I've looked at the estimate provided  by [L] and spoken to the [H] engineer.  Unfortunately,  [L] 
have told us they're  not prepared to negotiate on any of their costs. I don't think that's 
reasonable and I'm afraid I'm not in a position  to agree any costs  that a repairer  wants  to 
charge when they're excessive.
While I can see that Esure told Mr G it was willing to cover all repairs, it still said that it didnt 
think some  of the damage was related to the accident. So, I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Mr G to be concerned  about these comments and ask for another opinion. In addition, 
one of the main  scopes  of Vs report was to consider whether Ls estimate  was reasonable. 
So, on balance, I think it was reasonable for Mr G to obtain  another opinion.  That said, 
I dont think Esure needs to cover the cost of this report. I say this because  Esure  had 
already sought  an independent review of Ls quotation through  H. So, it was for Mr G to 
provide further  evidence,  at his own cost, in support  of his claim at this point. For this reason, 
I think it is a cost he should bear.
compensation
Its clear that Mr Gs claim wasnt handled well, the fact that his car wasnt repaired to a 
satisfactory standard after two attempts and still requires further work  has clearly  caused him 
significant trouble  and upset. I also think Esure had the opportunity to negotiate the costs 
with L, which may have  led to an acceptable  position for both parties without  the need to 
refer the matter to our service. I think this has led to further avoidable delays. Esure paid 
Mr G £300 compensation  for the issues he experienced, but like the investigator  I think  it 
should pay him a further £150.  I think this represents fair compensation in all of the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89295545my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint.
To put things right esure  Insurance  Limited should:
instruct another approved repairer  in their network to repair Mr Gs car or pay Mr G 
£5,067.11 to settle his claim;  and
pay Mr G a further £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8929554