K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to him in an
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my first provisional decision of
18 December 2019, an extract  of which is attached. So I wont  repeat that information here. 
My first provisional  decision and my second provisional decision of 27 January 2020, an 
extract of which is also attached, form part of this final decision.   
my provisional decisions
In my first provisional decision, I explained  why I thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have 
given Mr J loans five, six and seven. Mr Lender  disagreed and I looked again at the chain  of 
lending. 
In my second provisional decision, I said that theres a significant  gap between  Mr J repaying  
loan five and taking out loan six. I said that gap broke  the chain of lending.  So, when Mr J 
asked for loan six, Mr Lender was entitled  to treat him as a new customer. I said that there  
are two chains of lending: loans  one to five and loans six and seven.  I said that Mr Lender  
shouldnt have given  Mr J loan five.  
responses to my second provisional  decision
We didnt receive a response from Mr Lender. Mr J didnt agree with my conclusions about  
loans six and seven.  He said:
When he asked Mr Lender for loan six, hed taken  out two other  loans two days  
before, so Mr Lender didnt carry out sufficient checks, particularly  as he asked for a 
substantial part of his net monthly pay.
He doesnt  agree that loan six was the start of a new chain of lending.
In relation to loan seven, when he asked Mr Lender for that loan he had five other 
loans on or around the same date and Mr Lender should  have taken that into 
account. 
Its irrelevant that he managed  to repay  loan six.
He had to borrow  money from his parents  to repay these loans, which hes still 
paying back. 
Ref: DRN86326992my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the pattern of lending here. I remain of the view that a gap of around a 
year between loans  five and six was sufficient  to break the chain of lending.  When  Mr J 
asked Mr Lender for loan six, he hadnt  borrowed from it for over a year and hed had 
several pay dates since  his last loan. In the circumstances,  I think that Mr Lender was 
entitled to treat Mr J as a new borrower again from loan six. 
When a loan is the start of a new chain of lending, proportionate checks  dont require the 
same information as when theres  been a number of loans in the same  chain. So, whilst Mr J 
is right to say that he had other short-term borrowing  at the time of loans six and seven,
Mr Lender wasnt obliged  to ask him about that, as proportionate checks  didnt require it to 
do so.
Mr J says that loan six was for a substantial amount compared to his income. Loan six was 
repayable over six months.  The highest  payment for loan six was around £250. I dont think  
that the level of repayment meant  that Mr Lender was required to ask Mr J about his other
short-term lending at that point. 
I agree  with Mr J that its irrelevant that he managed to repay loan six. Repayment  of loans 
doesnt, in itself, show that they were affordable. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr J but for the reasons Ive explained above and in my second 
provisional decision, I uphold his complaint in relation to loan five but not in relation to the 
other loans.  
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in relation to loan five. I now require PDL 
Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender to:
refund  all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan five from Mr Js credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 March  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86326993extract of first provisional decision  of 18 December  2019
complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr J took out seven instalment loans  with Mr Lender between December  2014 and 
December 2016. The amount of the loans ranged from £100 to £600 and were  repayable  in two, 
three or six, monthly instalments. Mr J repaid  all the loans. A summary of Mr Js borrowing  from Mr 
Lender is as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
12 December 2014 300 28 January 2015
231 January 2015 200 28 April 2015
39 May 2015 240 28 July 2017
430 August 2015 100 9 September 2015
512 September 2015 400 27 November 2015
628 November 2016 600 17 December 2016
719 December 2016 300 30 December 2016
Mr J says that he couldnt afford to repay these loans. He wants  a refund of charges and interest.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Js complaint. He said that Mr Lender shouldnt have given  Mr 
J loan five and he set out what he thought it should do to put matters right.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said that the adjudicator hadnt  provided sufficient 
detail to support his view. Mr Lender said that Mr J hadnt struggled  to repay  the loans  and that hed 
repaid them on time.
As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this 
means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to make sure Mr J could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things, such  as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN86326994But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given  loan amount from a lower  level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult  to meet  
a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending  was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required  to establish whether  Mr J could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of course, the 
loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer  could sustainably 
make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow  this is the case. This is because the 
Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular, the customer should be able to make  repayments on time,  while meeting  other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow
to meet  the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make  their repayments without borrowing  further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Js complaint.
I dont  think that Mr Lender was wrong  to give Mr J loans one to four. Given  the repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about  Mr Js circumstances  at the time and his history  with the lender at that 
point, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr J for the amount  of 
information needed to show the lending  was unsustainable. There  wasnt anything in the information 
Mr J provided or the information Mr Lender shouldve  been
aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying what Mr J said at that 
stage.
By loan five, Mr J had been borrowing from Mr Lender for nine months with very little gap. And 
whilst the amounts varied, loan five was for more than Mr J had previously borrowed.  In the 
circumstances, proportionate checks are likely to have established a much fuller
picture of Mr Js financial position. I think proportionate checks  here wouldve meant that 
Mr Lender took steps to verify the information Mr J provided about his financial situation.  If Mr 
Lender had done that, I think it would likely have seen, as I have,  that Mr J was spending 
considerable sums on gambling. I think proportionate checks would have shown that Mr J was 
having problems  managing his money and that he couldnt afford  to repay  further borrowing. So, I 
dont think that Mr Lender should have given Mr J loan five onward.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr J, with a view to
seeing if there  was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending  
was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so should  have realised  that it shouldnt have 
provided any further  loans.
Ref: DRN86326995Given the particular circumstances of Mr Js case, I think that this point was reached by loans 
six. I say this because by that point, Mr J had been borrowing from Mr Lender for almost two 
years. The pattern of lending, in itself, indicated that it was more  likely  than not Mr J was having  
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving  in his finances and 
that Mr Js indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr J wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount  he owed Mr Lender. Loans seven
was taken  out over two years after Mr Js first. Mr J had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, 
service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
In addition to what Ive said about loan five, I think  that Mr J lost out because Mr Lender continued  to 
provide borrowing from loan six onwards  because these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr 
Js indebtedness  by allowing him to take expensive credit intended
for short-term use over an extended period of time. The sheer number of loans was likely to have 
had negative  implications on Mr Js ability  to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost loans.
So in addition to upholding Mr Js complaint about loan five, Im also upholding the 
complaint about loans six and seven  and Mr Lender  should  put things right.
putting things right   what I intend  to direct Mr Lender to do
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loans  five, six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Js credit file;
the number of loans taken from six onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So all entries about loans six and seven should be removed from Mr Js credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold  Mr Js complaint in part. I intend to direct
PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to take the steps  Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN86326996extract of second  provisional decision of 27 January 2020
complaint
Mr J complains that PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, lent to him in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
The background  to this complaint was set out in my first provisional decision of
18 December 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms  part of this final decision. So, I wont 
repeat that information here. In my first provisional  decision, I explained why I thought that Mr Lender 
shouldnt have given  Mr J loans five, six and seven.
responses to my first provisional decision
Mr J accepted my first provisional decision but Mr Lender didnt. It said:
Theres a significant gap in lending  between  loans  five and six.
Loan  six was the start of a new chain of borrowing and its checks before loan six were  
proportionate.
Its checks before  loans  six and seven  didnt  show that Mr J was in financial difficulty.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again at the chain of lending.  Theres a significant gap of around a year between Mr J 
repaying loan five and taking out loan six. I think that gap breaks the chain of lending such  that 
when Mr J asked for loan six, Mr Lender was entitled to treat him as a new customer. So, Im 
looking at two chains of lending here: loans one to five and loans six and seven.
In my first provisional  decision, I said that I didnt think that Mr Lender was wrong to give Mr J
loans one to four. That was because, given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about  Mr 
Js circumstances at the time and his history  with the lender at that point, I didnt think  it wouldve  
been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask Mr J for the amount of information  needed  to show the 
lending was unsustainable. I said that there wasnt anything in the information Mr J provided or the 
information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it 
to start verifying  what  Mr J said at that stage.  I think that the same reasoning  also applies to loans 
six and seven.  So, in addition to loans  one to four, I dont think that Mr Lender was wrong to give 
Mr J loans six and seven.
For the reasons  I set out in my first provisional  decision, I remain of the view that
Mr Lender shouldnt  have given Mr J loan five.
In the particular circumstances of this case and given  there were two chains of lending here,
I dont think the point was reached when the pattern of lending, in itself,  indicated that further lending 
was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN86326997putting things right   what I intend  to direct Mr Lender to do
refund all interest and charges Mr J paid on loan five;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan five from Mr Js credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.
 Mr Lender must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold  Mr Js complaint in relation to loan five. I intend 
to direct PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to take the steps Ive set out above.
Ref: DRN8632699