K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC, 
trading as QuickQuid.  Mr E says he couldnt  afford these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed three short-term loans for Mr E between February 2012 and June 2012.  
The loans ranged from £50 to £200 and were repayable over either one or two months. On 
one of these loans, Mr E took out a top-up, this is where he took out further borrowing under 
the same  agreement, before paying back the initial amount borrowed.  Ive  set out a 
summary of lending below. 
loan no. application principal  amount 
(£)no. of 
repayments  
duehighest 
monthly 
repayment  
due (£)
1 05/02/2012 50 1 63
2 23/02/2012 50 2 63
3 30/06/2012 200 1 240
3a (top-up) 07/07/2012 50 1 300
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Es complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be partially upheld. She felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out for loans 1  2 were  
proportionate, but that the checks from loan 3 onwards werent. And she thought that had 
QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve realised that both loan 3, and the 
top-up on this loan (loan 3a) wouldve been unaffordable  for Mr E, and therefore  would not 
have agreed to them. 
Mr E raised no objections to the view. QuickQuid responded further, disagreeing with the 
assessment. So the case has come  to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision
As loans  1 and 2 no longer seem  to be in dispute, my decision will focus on the remaining 
loan, loan 3, and the top-up on this loan (loan  3a).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
At the time of Mr Es borrowing QuickQuid  was regulated by the Office  of Fair Trading 
(OFT). The OFT required businesses to lend responsibly, which means QuickQuid needed  
to check that Mr E could  afford to repay his loans sustainably. The guidance stated that 
creditors  should take reasonable  steps to assess borrowers likely ability  to be able to meet 
repayments under the credit agreement in a sustainable manner. It also states  that this is 
likely to involve more  than solely assessing  the likelihood of the borrower  being  able to repay 
the credit  in question.
The guidance says that meeting repayments in a sustainable manner means repaying credit 
out of existing income and/or savings  while also meeting other debt repayments  and normal  
Ref: DRN83875252outgoings. And it also lists examples of sources of information to assess affordability  these 
include: a record  of previous dealings with the borrower, evidence of income,  evidence  of 
expenditure, a credit  score,  a credit report from a credit reference agency  and information 
obtained from the borrower.
There was no set list of checks that QuickQuid was required to complete before lending.  But 
it needed to complete affordability checks that were proportionate. Deciding what checks 
would be proportionate might include considerations about the amount borrowed, the 
associated cost and risk to Mr E, his borrowing history including any indications  that he 
might be experiencing  (or had experienced)  financial difficulty,  and so on.
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not QuickQuid did everything it shouldve  
when assessing  Mr Es loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it done further checks, whether 
it wouldve  realised these  loans may have been unaffordable for him.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I dont think  the checks 
QuickQuid carried out when it assessed  Mr Es application for loan 3, or the top-up on loan 3 
(3a) were proportionate.  And I think that had it carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve 
concluded that both loan 3 and the subsequent top-up (3a) wouldve been unaffordable  for 
Mr E, and wouldnt  have agreed to them.  
So Im upholding  Mr Es complaint for the same reasons as our adjudicator did and directing 
QuickQuid to put things right in the way she recommended. I appreciate  this will be a 
disappointing outcome for QuickQuid, but I hope  my explanation will make  it clear as to why 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
QuickQuid said it carried out proportionate checks when it agreed to loan 3 and the top-up 
on loan 3 (3a) for Mr E. It said its checks included analysing Mr Es current  financial 
commitments, insolvency records, delinquency records,  County  Court  judgments, credit  
enquiries and other  credit  accounts. Its also said it considered his credit-scoring information  
from Credit Reference Agencies, plus various other  third party reports. So Ive considered 
this when deciding  this case.
When Mr E took out loan 3 with QuickQuid, hed been borrowing  from QuickQuid  for around 
four months. And up until, and including this application, QuickQuid seems  to have asked 
Mr E about  his monthly income before agreeing to lend to him. 
But this was now Mr Es third application with QuickQuid, and the amount he was borrowing 
had increased  significantly from his first two loan applications. So I think proportionate  
checks at this point wouldve seen QuickQuid  also making enquiries  into Mr Es regular 
monthly outgoings; including both his monthly living costs, and regular credit commitments, 
before agreeing to lend further.  
Mr Es provided his bank  statements from around  the time of this application. So Ive used 
these, and all the other  evidence  provided by both parties, to work out what I think 
QuickQuid wouldve found out, had it carried out proportionate checks  at the time. 
Having done so, I can see that when  Mr E applied for loan 3, he was paying out just over 
£500 a month on his living costs.  This included  payments towards  his rent, food, television,  
fuel, car insurance  and his mobile phone bill. He also had monthly credit  commitments 
totalling around £274 a month. So proportionate  checks wouldve shown QuickQuid, that 
Mr E had in the region of £245 a month in disposable income  when he applied.
Ref: DRN83875253Given that the monthly repayment due on loan 3 was £245, while I think  its possible Mr E 
may have  had a small sum of money  left over after repaying this credit   Im not persuaded 
the amount identified  was sufficient for him to be able to repay it in a sustainable manner. 
And I think QuickQuid wouldve concluded the same, had it carried out proportionate  checks.  
And as a responsible lender, I dont think it wouldve approved  this application  knowing this. 
Mr E topped this loan up loan 3 by a further £50 just a week after taking it out, increasing the 
repayment due from £240 to £300. So for the same reasons I think QuickQuid shouldve  
realised Mr E wouldve  been unable to sustainably  afford to repay loan 3, it also should not 
have agreed to the top-up on loan 3 that it approved for £50 in July 2012.
In summary,  I dont think the checks QuickQuid carried out for loan 3 or 3a were  
proportionate. And I think that had it carried out proportionate checks, it wouldve concluded 
that both loan 3 and the top-up on this loan (loan 3a) wouldve been  unaffordable for Mr E 
and would not have agreed  to them.
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have agreed to loans 3  3a for 
Mr E. So it needs to refund all of the interest and charges Mr E paid on these loans.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid for the loan it agreed  in June 2012 and the top-up 
on this loan in July 2012
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Es credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Es complaint  in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8387525