K821x#15complaint
Miss L complains that the car she acquired  under a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VFSL) was not of satisfactory quality.
background
Miss L entered  into a HPA with VFSL in 2015  to acquire a new convertible car. She says that 
shortly after acquisition she experienced issues with the roof unlocking on its own and a 
warning light coming  on saying the roof was not secure. When  this happened  she has to pull 
over to manually lock the roof. 
Miss L says that as this was her first convertible car she was initially  concerned that she was 
doing something wrong and so didnt report the issue straight away.  But when the issue  
became more frequent she contacted her local dealership. Miss L says the car has been  
returned on a number of occasions  but each time a fault is not found  or parts  are replaced 
but the issue not resolved.
Miss L terminated the agreement in November 2018 and the car was collected.
VFSL says that the car was acquired in April 2015 and Miss L only contacted  it in November  
2016 about the issue with the roof. Before this the car had been  involved in an accident. It 
says it contacted to the local dealership which  confirmed Miss L had raised  the issue in 
January 2016  and had been  asked to take the car to her retailer  to investigate this. The 
dealership said the car had not been in the garage  before  the accident and that the repair  
could take place under warranty. The dealership  understood  that Miss L had been provided  
with a courtesy car. 
VFSL made a goodwill  offer in its final response  letter for the time Miss L was without  her 
car. This offer was increased to £363 and paid in December 2016. 
In February 2017,  VFSL says Miss L contacted it again about  the issue with the roof. The 
retailer confirmed that it was not able to replicate the issue  but the car was to be looked at 
again on 23 May. VFSL was then told that a fault had been found and fixed by the retailer.  It 
says it explained  that there was no evidence the fault was present at the point of supply but 
it paid Miss L two months rental  payments as compensation.  This was paid to Miss L in 
June 2017. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She thought that the vehicles roof was faulty and that 
this fault remained  after repairs had been  attempted. She thought it unreasonable  for a new 
vehicle to have  this type of fault.  Because of this she recommended that Miss L be refunded 
the £2,000 deposit  she paid along  with 8% interest.  She did not think that Miss Ls payments 
should be refunded as she noted  Miss L had benefitted from reasonable use of the vehicle. 
However she did recommend that Miss L be paid £200 for the trouble and upset she 
experienced by having  to return the vehicle on several occasions.
VFSL did not accept  out investigators  view. It accepted that Miss L had raised the issue  with 
the roof in January 2016 and says that Miss L was asked to contact the retailer  to discuss 
this. However Miss L did not make contact  again until after the car had been involved in an 
accident. 
Ref: DRN85936042VFSL says that as the issue  was raised  nine months after acquisition  it did not accept it was 
responsible. It says that the issue was not investigated until after the car had been involved 
in an accident  and there was no evidence to say that fault was present before this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to consider each case based  on its own individual merits. I take relevant  
regulations into account  but my decision is based on what  I consider fair and reasonable.
Miss L acquired a new car through a HPA.  Under  the regulations VFSL  is liable if the car 
provided was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. As the car was new when  
acquired it is reasonable that Miss L would expect it to be free of any issues  including  any 
minor defects.
It is clear that there was a fault with the cars roof. This was established  by the retailer  and 
repairs have been  said to have been  carried out on more than one occasion. Miss L has 
provided further evidence to show  that the fault is ongoing despite  the attempted repairs.  
The outstanding issue is whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Miss L says that she experienced issues with the cars roof within the first six months of 
acquisition. VFSL says this issue was only raised nine months  after acquisition. It further 
says that investigation into the issue did not happen  until after the car had been involved in 
an accident. 
I note the comment about  investigation happening after an accident. However, as the fault 
was raised a number  of months before the accident  and this has been  confirmed  by the local 
dealership, I accept that the issue was present before the accident occurred. I further note 
that the system  notes provided show correspondence with the repairer  which says the roof 
issue was nothing to do with the accident  and that the issue was a faulty switch which was 
replaced under manufacturer warranty. Therefore I accept that there was a fault with the roof 
and this was present  before the accident occurred.  
The first correspondence  I have seen about  the issue with the roof is from January 2016. 
This is around nine months after acquisition. I understand the comments  made about the 
issue being raised more than six months  after acquisition and it being  Miss Ls responsibility 
to show the issue  was present from the point  of supply. There was no inspection carried  out 
to confirm this and as the car has been returned  I cannot say that this should now happen. 
However I also note Miss Ls comments about the issue  occurring a few months after 
acquisition and her not raising it for a period of time until the frequency  increased. I accept 
her comments in regard to this. Therefore I accept the issue was present for a period of time 
before January 2016. 
As the car was new at acquisition  I think it reasonable to expect  no issues  to occur within the 
first few months.  The repairer found  a faulty  switch which  suggests  a fault rather than a wear 
and tear issue. Although I note that after repair the issue  remained.  Given the issue  with the 
roof occurred within the first few months  I find on balance that the car provided was not 
sufficiently durable  and therefore  not of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN85936043Repairs were undertaken under warranty and this would have been a reasonable remedy  
had the issue  been resolved. However Miss L has shown that the repairs  did not resolve the 
issue. In these circumstances  I would normally suggest the car is returned  and the deposit 
refunded. In this case the car has been  returned already and the agreement  terminated and 
so the outstanding action  is for the deposit  to be refunded.
Miss L had reasonable use of the car while she had it and was compensated for periods of 
time when  the car was in for repair. So I find it reasonable that she made  her repayments 
and is liable for any costs  associated  with the agreement for that time.
However Miss L has explained that she had to return the car on several  occasions,  and on 
the first few occasions  she was told there  was nothing wrong, even though  a faulty  switch  
was later identified. The repeat  visits will have caused her unnecessary trouble and upset  
and I find it reasonable  that she is compensated for this. I agree with our investigators 
recommendation of £200.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  
should:
refund  Miss L the deposit  she paid (set out in the agreement s £2,000)  along with the 
relevant 8% simple  interest; and
pay Miss L £200 compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8593604