K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that First Response  Finance  Ltd (FRF) mis-sold him a single premium  
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2009 when he took out a hire purchase (HP) 
agreement to buy a car.
background
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On his behalf, Mr Ss representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and asked that 
this complaint be passed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Mr S has stated  that he was given  the impression that in order  to obtain  the loan, he needed 
to take out PPI. FRF has not been  able to provide a recording of the telephone call that took 
place when Mr S was sold PPI, and I dont find that surprising, bearing in mind  the sale was 
a number of years ago. However, it has provided  a copy of a call script that it says would 
have been used at this time.
Using this script, the FRF representative was required  to refer to PPI as an optional product. 
Having asked some  questions of Mr S to determine  his needs, the representative  then asked 
if Mr S wished  to proceed with taking out PPI. Where PPI was shown on the HP agreement, 
it was also referred to as being optional.
Clearly I cant  be certain whether the call script was followed exactly as it was laid down in 
FRFs document, or what other discussions took place during the call. However, it seems to 
me that on balance it is more likely  than not that the optional nature of PPI was made clear 
to Mr S, and he decided to take it out.
FRF advised Mr S to take out the policy. This means  that it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for his needs. Based on his circumstances at the time, my view is that the policy  
was suitable for Mr S, for the following reasons:
Mr S was eligible for the policy. He was also unlikely to be affected by any of the main  
things it didnt  cover which might have made it unsuitable.  
Ref: DRN89928932The policy could have  met the monthly HP repayments until the loan was repaid in the 
event of a successful claim for accident  or sickness. It would  also have covered the 
repayments for up to 12 months for each successful claim  for unemployment.  Even 
taking into account  the means  Mr S says he had available  when he took out the loan, in 
my view PPI did provide an additional  useful benefit to him to cover  the repayments  in 
the event that he wasnt working.
The policy did not provide a proportional refund if it was cancelled  early. However, Ive 
not seen persuasive evidence  indicating  that it was likely when Mr S took out the policy  
that he would  be repaying the loan early. Consequently  I dont think  the refund terms 
made the policy unsuitable  for him.
Ive also looked  at whether FRF gave Mr S information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading, so he could make an informed choice  about whether or not to take out the 
policy. If the information was not clear, I need to consider whether this is likely to have 
affected Mr Ss decision to take out PPI.
In the call script, the representative was required to tell Mr S what  the total cost of the PPI 
premium and interest was over the term of the loan, and what  its monthly  cost was. On the 
HP agreement itself, the PPI premium was shown,  along with the interest for the PPI 
premium and the other insurance policy that Mr S was also buying related to the car 
purchase. Although I consider that the cost of the PPI and the cost of the related  interest  
could have been made clearer  to Mr S, taking into account my view that the policy  was 
overall suitable for his needs, I consider it unlikely that clearer  information would have led to 
Mr S not taking out the policy.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant be sure Mr S was given clear  enough information 
about other features of the policy when he bought it. But again, as I consider the policy  was 
suitable for him, my view is that better information  would not have put Mr S off taking out 
PPI. I also consider that the potential benefits that would have been paid under the policy  in 
the event of a successful  claim when compared  to the costs  meant that the policy was 
suitable for Mr S.
Overall my conclusion is that the PPI was not mis-sold.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr S paid on his PPI  and whether FRF treated him 
unfairly. 
FRF has told us that the commission for Mr Ss PPI was less than half of what he paid for 
the premium. Weve looked  at how FRF has been working this out and based on what weve 
seen it looks like its right  Mr Ss commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont  think FRF 
treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr S back  any of the commission  he 
paid for the PPI.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Ref: DRN89928933Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8992893