K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Lloyds  Bank PLC (when  it was trading as TSB) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a credit card account that started in 1998. 
Mrs F says she took out the PPI when she applied  for her card during a meeting at the bank. 
Theres only limited information  now available and Ive no reason to say she isnt right about  
that. Lloyds couldnt confirm how or exactly when PPI was sold to Mrs F.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Mrs F mainly said the PPI wasnt mentioned and it came as a package  with the credit card. 
She also told us that she doesnt feel she needed  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Fs complaint.  Ill explain why.
The original  paperwork from the sale is no longer  available. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
rely on Mrs F being able to remember everything  as it happened so long ago. So I cant 
know exactly what the bank said to Mrs F, if anything, when she took out PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  an example  of a credit card application. But I dont know  if Mrs F 
wouldve filled in a form like this when  she took out the PPI  because  it isnt clear exactly 
how or when this happened. So Im not relying  on this. 
Based on what we know about  the way Lloyds usually sold PPI around this time, I think its 
likely that however the sale took place, Mrs F wouldve  had to say if she wanted  PPI  it 
wasnt automatically added onto a credit  card account. And it looks  to me as if Mrs F 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  So, on balance, I think its more 
likely that Mrs F decided  she wanted  to have the benefits PPI offered and Lloyds added PPI 
to her account at her request,  even if understandably she no longer recalls  this. 
Lloyds said that in fairness to Mrs F it would look at her complaint as if it had advised  Mrs F 
personally to have the PPI. This means  it not only had to give her important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mrs F
Ive taken into account everything Mrs F told us about her circumstances. I can completely 
understand how difficult it is to try and remember precise details from so long ago  so its 
unsurprising that she cant tell me details of any sick pay. 
Ref: DRN84276622PPI wouldve  covered her for accident  or sickness for up to 12 months  per claim. It would be 
very unusual  for someone to be guaranteed  to receive full sick pay for a whole year.  So 
I think its likely PPI wouldve provided  Mrs F with better cover than she couldve depended 
on getting from her employer. And the policy wouldve paid out, on top of any sick pay. This 
couldve been a useful benefit at whats likely  to have been a difficult  time if Mrs F needed to 
claim as she mightve had extra costs if she was ill or disabled.   
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out in the event Mrs F lost her job unexpectedly 
and was out of work. 
Mrs F hasnt  mentioned having any significant other means she couldve depended on if she 
wasnt able to work. Although she had some life insurance, PPI provided a different sort of 
cover and paid out in different circumstances.  And relying on someone else to help out in the 
event of money problems  isnt as dependable  as taking  out PPI as everyones 
circumstances can change unexpectedly. So I think PPI was suitable for her.  
Looking at the likely policy terms, I think Mrs F was eligible for the cover. It doesnt look as if 
Mrs F was affected by any of the main policy limitations or exclusions that mightve  made it 
difficult for her to make a successful claim. 
Some of the information Lloyds gave  Mrs F about  the PPI probably  wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example, I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would  
cost, or what it might  pay out if Mrs F made a claim.  But it seems to have  been  affordable  for 
her. And Mrs F couldve cancelled the policy at any time without further cost if her 
circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it.
Taking everything into account,  I havent seen enough to make me think that its likely Mrs F 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, 
I think shed still have  taken out the policy. This means Mrs F hasnt lost out as a result  of 
anything that Lloyds may have done  wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things  
right.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8427662