K822xcomplaint
Mrs C has complained about Allianz  Insurance Plcs  (Allianz)  service regarding her motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Allianz includes  its agents.
background 
Mrs C was involved in two driving  incidents, both of which she said weren't  her fault. She 
claimed on her policy and Allianz  arranged for her car to be repaired. About two months 
later, shortly  before her policy was due to renew, Allianz told her that her premium would 
increase dramatically. Allianz  told Mrs C that the two recent  claims remained open  and those  
together with other claims on her record were  affecting her renewal premium.  
Mrs C brought her complaint about Allianzs  service to us. Our adjudicator  didn't think that 
Allianz had delayed in handling the two recent claims. She also thought that Allianz  had 
correctly referred to the number of incidents  on Mrs Cs driving record.  But she said the 
quote it had initially  provided to renew Mrs Cs policy was considerably  higher than it should 
have been. And she noted Allianz  hadn't fully looked  into that when Mrs C contacted it about 
it. So she didn't  think Allianz had dealt  with Mrs C fairly. To put things right she said Allianz 
should pay Mrs C £75 compensation.  
Mrs C didn't agree so her complaint's been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it 
and my award will be the same as the adjudicators recommendation.
At the time Mrs C brought her complaint to us less than three  months had gone by since the 
two incidents she claimed for. I can understand that might  seem like a long time to Mrs C but 
in my experience motor  claims often take many months and in some cases years to resolve.  
Thats particularly the case  where  liability is disputed by the other driver(s) or their insurer(s), 
and there  are other  complicating factors such as separate claims for uninsured  losses such  
as personal injuries,  which I understand was the case here. 
And - in relation to the second  accident   Im aware  theres an extra  complicating factor as 
the other driver is a European  national who doesn't live in the UK and isn't insured by a UK 
insurer. So Allianz  had to first take steps  to find out who that insurer  was before trying to 
secure an admission of liability and recover its outlay (the total amount it paid out on a 
claim).
I can see that Allianz took prompt action to pursue both claims. But, when Mrs Cs policy 
was due for renewal  both remained open.  However, I don't think  that was because of 
anything Allianz  did or didn't do. And Im satisfied that when she brought  her complaint to us 
it was taking reasonable action to try and settle the claims  in her favour. So I don't think it 
was Allianzs fault that the claims remained open.
I can understand how frustrating Mrs C would have found knowing that these open claims 
were affecting her renewal premium.  It might help if I explain that its usual across the 
Ref: DRN83070912insurance industry for insurers to treat open claims as if theyre fault claims until theyve 
recovered their outlay for settling them. And I don't find that unreasonable. Thats  because, if 
a claim later closes  as non-fault its relatively  simple for an insurer to recalculate a premium  
based on the non-fault and issue any refund thats  due. And thats standard  practice across 
the industry, which I don't find unfair.   
Similarly, Mrs C was concerned that the open  claims were  also affecting her no claims 
discount (NCD) entitlement. But again its standard practice for an open claim to reduce an 
NCD as if it was a fault claim. And its usual for insurers  to reinstate NCD when a claim 
closes as non-fault.  They  can then issue any corresponding refund owing to the policyholder. 
So I don't think  Allianz  did anything wrong  when considering how the open  claim  affected  
Mrs Cs driving  history.  And I've noted  that it reduced her NCD in line with her policys terms 
and conditions. So I don't  think it stepped back her NCD unfairly. 
Mrs C was also unhappy that Allianz referred  to her as having had six previous claims when 
she says thats not the case. I have  some sympathy  with Mrs Cs position here and I 
certainly think that Allianz could have expressed  itself more precisely when responding to 
her complaint. 
In fact looking at Mrs Cs driving history its apparent that shes been involved in six driving 
incidents in total but not necessarily had six claims. The incidents shes reported to insurers  
are: the two claims  mentioned above;  a third claim from 2016 when the other driver left the 
scene without providing their details;  and three  other incidents, in 2014, 2015  and April 2017, 
when Mrs C told Allianz about potential claims but didn't make  a claim herself. And, for those 
three incidents, no claim was ever made  by other  drivers or road users against  her policy. 
So I can understand why Mrs C would say she hadn't had six claims, because  shed actually 
only claimed for three  of the incidents.  The other three didn't  result in claims and were 
recorded as notification  only. But its common  for insurers to initially note any driving 
incident as a claim until sufficient times gone by, without a claim coming in, for it to then 
record the incident as notification only. So it would have been more  accurate for Allianz to 
have referred to Mrs Cs total number  of driving  incidents rather  than claims. But it appears 
that its used the terminology  recognised in the insurance industry rather  than what Mrs C 
might recognise herself as whats actually happened. But I don't think  that means Allianz has 
incorrectly recorded Mrs Cs driving history. 
Mrs C also complained about the dramatic increase in the premium  Allianz quoted  her in 
order to renew her policy. When we asked  Allianz to explain this increase it identified that its 
system had made an error when calculating the renewal premium.  It had told Mrs C that the 
price to renew would  be around £4,570. But the correct figure should have been about  
£1,225. Mrs C didn't  accept the incorrect renewal premium and took a policy  with a different 
insurer for around £720 a year. As that premium was still around £500 cheaper than the 
correct premium Allianz should  have offered it doesn't seem that Allianz system error with 
her renewal premium means that shes lost out financially. But I think  Allianz  should  have 
looked into the matter at the time that Mrs C complained about it and noticed  its mistake at 
that point. That it didn't  do so has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mrs C. So 
to put things right I think it should pay her £75 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Allianz Insurance  Plc 
to pay Mrs C £75 compensation for her distress  and inconvenience. It should  pay the 
Ref: DRN83070913compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mrs C has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Allianz considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing  
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8307091