K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain of bad mortgage  advice, delay, poor service and incompetence by 
Connells Limited in their mortgage  and Help to Buy (HTB) applications.  They say that owing 
to Connells  poor advice and lack of responsiveness they had to get a mortgage from 
another bank  than the one advised, at a higher price. 
To resolve  their complaint  they want to be paid the cost difference between the mortgage 
they were advised  to apply for and the one they ended up with, and compensation for stress  
and aggravation.
background
Mr and Mrs C were moving house  and engaged Connells as mortgage broker.  They  wanted  
a five-year fixed-interest  product  but their existing  lender H wouldnt offer this. So on the 
advice of Connells  they applied to lender B, which made a decision in principle.
Mr and Mrs C provided the required documentation  including P60s, identity and payslips. 
After six weeks of being told that the application  was progressing, they received an email  
from Connells asking them to call urgently. During that conversation  Connells said they were  
nearly £15,000 short on affordability and that they were never going to be able to get a 
mortgage with B. 
They say they had no choice but to get an additional mortgage product with H and bolt this 
onto their existing product  on a two-year fix as they were fast running  out of time. Connells 
had taken six weeks to tell them they were  never  going to get a mortgage with B. By that 
time they were in danger  of losing the reservation on their new house  and their buyers were 
threatening to pull out. 
Mr and Mrs C say Connells incorrectly advised  them to apply to B as its affordability criteria 
were never going to meet their needs. This wasted a considerable amount of time and 
stopped them from looking elsewhere  for the right product.
They say Connells also gave poor advice and service on their HTB application. The 
application was submitted  incorrectly  on at least three separate  occasions  which  caused 
them a huge  amount  of time,  hassle  and stress.  Connells was incapable of completing  an 
HTB application correctly  
Instead of ending up with a five-year fix which would  give them  security, they ended up with 
two products which both end in two years time. At that point theyll  have to make another 
product application.  By staying with H theyve  avoided  an early repayment  charge of £4,000 
but are over £100  per month worse off.
On Mr and Mrs Cs complaint to Connells it said it had submitted an application to B on 
15 June 2018.  It acknowledged that the application fell outside Bs criteria relating to 
evidence of overtime and bonus payments. Connells accepted  that its adviser should have 
been aware of this at the outset, and adjusted his recommendations  accordingly.
Connells had also sent copy  payslips in an incorrect format, so B didnt have the information  
to make a decision. Connells was aware  that there  could be an issue  on 19th July 2018, and 
had failed to tell Mr and Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN83502142Mr and Mrs C had spoken to a new adviser  who was able to make  arrangements with their 
existing lender, H. A mortgage offer was produced within  a few days and Mr and Mrs C were 
able to proceed.
Connells apologised for the anxiety and stress  caused and offered Mr and Mrs C £300 in 
recognition of this.
It said the original reservation  form from the developer expired on 2 July 2018. The HTB 
scheme required four working days to complete, but Connells didnt send the correct  
documentation until 27 June 2018.  This didnt leave enough time to complete the process  
before the reservation form expired. Connells had to complete  a new property information  
form with Mr and Mrs C and submit  it to the HTB agents with a new reservation  form.
Connells said this hadnt delayed completion, but it could see that this would have caused 
Mr and Mrs C an inconvenience. It apologised for this and offered a further  £50 in 
recognition.
Mr and Mrs C had also complained that by staying  with H they were  over £100 per month  
worse off compared to B. Connells said their application shouldnt  have been  submitted to B 
as it fell outside its criteria. Connells was unable  to consider refunding  the difference  
between Bs interest  rate and Mr and Mrs Cs new rate with H, because  B wouldnt have 
offered this rate to them  as they werent  eligible  for it.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy and brought their complaint to this service. They  said they 
wanted to be compensated for the difference between the mortgage they were advised to 
apply for (B £770) and the mortgage they had ended up with (H £871) which  equated to 
£2,000. This was the difference of £100 per month over 60 months less the £4,000  early  
repayment charge  they would have had to pay. Plus £500 for stress and aggravation caused 
by Connells incompetence. So in total £2,500.
Our investigator said Connells shouldnt have allowed  the application process to continue for 
so long before telling Mr and Mrs C that it would fail owing to affordability. This was so 
especially as Connells had admitted it didnt submit  various documents on time or correctly. 
But she couldnt fairly ask Connells to give Mr and Mrs C £2,000 to compensate them  for the 
financial loss they believed theyd experienced. They wouldnt have been eligible for a 
mortgage with B because  they didnt satisfy  its criteria.
The investigator recommended  that Connells compensate Mr and Mrs C a further £50 on top 
of its original offer of £350, making £400  in total.  She considered this fair and reasonable 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by Connells  incorrect  advice during the 
mortgage process. 
Neither party accepted the investigators recommendation.
Connells considered  the compensation it had offered  was fair and reasonable and saw no 
rationale for an increase.
Mr and Mrs C said the investigator  had missed two out of the three key points regarding their 
complaint. The first point  was the stress and aggravation caused  by the delays and the 
incompetence of every  member of Connells staff they dealt  with. The second  related to the 
Ref: DRN83502143incorrect mortgage advice. The third was Connells inability to understand and process HTB 
applications on which it claimed to be expert.
They said Connells should never even have begun an application process  with B as they 
didnt fit its affordability criteria  from the beginning. As a result they were now paying £200 
[sic] per month more than Connells had led them  to believe they would be paying with B.
They said various  people  at Connells had lied about  the progress of the application.
Connells had said in its defence that Mr and Mrs C were never  going  to get the mortgage  
with B anyway but they could have  got a much  better deal elsewhere had they had the time 
to look for one. Connells had denied them this by giving bad mortgage  advice.
Mr and Mrs C said Connells  was unable to understand and correctly navigate  the HTB 
process. The application was incorrectly completed by Connells on at least  three occasions. 
This resulted in Mr C having to deal with HTB himself  on many occasions  to sort things out. 
The lost six weeks were  crucial. Had they not been  advised to submit an application to B 
they could have looked elsewhere and got a better deal.  But they we were  denied this 
opportunity. The £2,000  requested was the difference in mortgage  payments had they 
successfully got the B mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its common ground that Mr and Mrs C were never eligible for the mortgage with B. 
Their point is that the application which Connells made was doomed to fail and denied them 
the opportunity  to look elsewhere. They were forced to accept the H mortgage.
However for this to be translated  into a financial loss, it would need to be shown that 
Mr and Mrs C would  have found a better deal than H provided if theyd had time to look 
elsewhere. And theres no evidence that that would have been the case.
Therefore the question  for me is whether £400 is a fair and reasonable amount by way of 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused to Mr and Mrs C. And I think  that it is. They 
were caused  anxiety and stress by the doomed application and the time it took for this to be 
discovered, and further worry and inconvenience by the failure to deal competently  with the 
HTB application. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Connells Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C 
£400 compensation for their trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Edward Callaghan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350214