K822xcomplaint
Mr H complained to Gemini Financial Planning Ltd (Gemini) about the suitability of advice to 
invest in a Stirling Mortimer Fund which is currently illiquid. 
background 
Mr H and his wife became  clients of Stirling  Associates (Cheltenham) Ltd (Stirling 
Associates) in 2007. In 2009 Stirling Associates  adviser  recommended new investments for 
Mr Hs self invested personal pension (SIPP).  It seems Mr Hs SIPP hadnt been doing well 
and the new funds were  aimed at addressing that. Three  funds were recommended, 
including a Stirling Mortimer  Fund. 
On 9 March 2012 the adviser wrote  to Mr H and his wife saying that a new advisory firm  
Gemini  was to be launched.  It followed  a decision to divide  Stirling  Associates into two 
separate companies. The adviser was moving to Gemini. The letter said that all Mr Hs 
existing financial plans  and investments  would  be transferred to Gemini and would continue 
under the advisers stewardship.
Mr H says performance didnt improve and he decided to withdraw his pension fund. By 
June 2016 hed asked the adviser  to withdraw  what he could with the remainder  and here 
Mr H had in mind the Stirling Mortimer Fund  by the next tax year.  Mr H got a payment of 
£104,559.12 less tax on 21 June 2016.  But he was told he couldnt access  the money  that 
had been invested in the Stirling Mortimer Fund  as that Fund was illiquid. 
Mr H complained to Gemini. It said it hadnt  provided the advice to invest  and it hadnt  
agreed to accept liability for the advice when  Mr H was transferred from Stirling  Associates. 
One of adjudicators investigated the complaint.  He thought it should  be upheld  in part. He 
didnt think the investments  recommended  by Stirling Associates were suitable for Mr H. But 
Gemini wasnt  responsible for advice given by another  firm. And he hadnt seen anything  to 
suggest Gemini had taken  on liability for the investment  advice when Mr H became its client.  
Gemini was responsible  for the continued suitability of the investments and had been 
deducting on going adviser  fees. It didnt appear that Gemini had carried  out any review of 
Mr Hs investments. There wasnt much that Gemini  could have done as the Stirling 
Mortimer Fund couldnt be redeemed. But the adjudicator thought  Gemini  should refund the 
adviser fees it had received from the SIPP. And pay Mr H £150 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
The adjudicator also suggested that Mr H approach the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).  It was accepting claims against  Stirling Associates which had ceased 
trading. I understand that Mr H did make  a claim to FSCS. 
Gemini agreed to pay what the adjudicator  had suggested. The adjudicator put the offer to 
Mr H, which  Gemini later quantified. Mr H didnt accept the offer.   He made  a number of 
comments, both about  Gemini and the SIPP operator. Mr H has also complained about the 
SIPP provider. That complaint has been dealt  with under separate  reference. 
About Gemini Mr H said, in summary: 
Ref: DRN88569742The adjudicators  view should  have been based solely on the balance of probabilities.  
Instead it was based  just on the law and the limited  liability  of Gemini as if it was a 
completely separate company.  But the letter dated 9 March 2012  confirmed that it 
wasnt. 
That letter said everything would remain  the same (except for details such  as 
telephone number, email addresses  etc). It was an internal reorganisation. Gemini 
carries the liabilities  of Stirling Associates as that was how the work was divided up. 
The adjudicator  had argued  that Gemini was a separate legal  entity. But the adviser 
had been employed  by Stirling Associates. He was transferred to Gemini along with 
others as a change  in their method of business. He wrote the letter  dated 9 March 
2012 on behalf of Gemini to let customers know that Stirling Associates was simply 
changing its business method with everything  else to remain the same.  Gemini  was a 
further manifestation of Stirling  Associates  and should be treated as the same 
company in all but name. Gemini intended to carry on exactly as Stirling Associates.  
If that wasnt the case Mr H would have been asked to sign and agree different terms 
and conditions and fees. But he wasnt sent and didnt sign new terms of business  
with Gemini. It was prepared to go ahead without any change. So the original Stirling 
Associates terms of business  dated October  2006 applied and which said he had the 
right to withdraw his entire investment. So Gemini should pay him his money back.  
Mr H asked for the matter  to be referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs position.  I can see that a refund of the fees that Gemini has taken 
from his SIPP isnt going to meet the losses that hes potentially suffered as a result  of 
investing in Stirling  Mortimer. Nor does it get over the problem of Mr H being unable  to 
access his investment  money that he saved  for his retirement  and now needs. 
But the question  I have to consider is whether Gemini  as opposed to any other entity  - is 
responsible whats  happened.  Unfortunately  for Mr H, although I can understand why he 
considers Gemini is liable,  Im unable to agree. Essentially I agree with what the adjudicator  
said. 
The recommendation to invest in Stirling Mortimer was made  in 2009. At the time Gemini 
wasnt Mr Hs advisers.  Gemini wasnt set up until 2012, some  three  years  later.  Gemini  was 
a new company and a separate  entity  to Stirling Associates.  As such  Gemini wont  ordinarily 
be responsible  for what Stirling  Associates had done  earlier,  including any advice that Mr H 
was given. 
I can understand why Mr H considers Gemini should be responsible,  given how Gemini 
came to be set up and the links with Stirling  Associates. And of course the adviser was the 
same throughout. But its the firm he worked  for, rather than him as an individual, thats 
responsible if a customer is unhappy  with the advice that hes been given. 
I note all Mr H says about the way in which the transfer was presented to him  as an 
automatic, unilateral  and seamless transfer  which wouldnt result  in any changes  for him. But 
that doesnt alter the fact that Gemini was a new company and a separate  legal  entity. In my 
Ref: DRN88569743view Gemini isnt responsible for advice given earlier, by a different entity and before Gemini  
was set up. 
Mr H says the adjudicators view is too narrow  and is based just on the legal  position.  But I 
do have to take into account  the legal position. Were governed by the Dispute Resolution 
(DISP) rules.  DISP  3.6.1R requires me to determine  a complaint by reference to what  is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.  And DISP 3.6.4R says 
that, in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case,  the 
ombudsman will take into account,  amongst  other things, relevant law and regulations.
Mr H says he didnt sign any new terms of business  with Gemini and so the existing 
Stirling Associates conditions applied. But theres  a dispute about  that. Gemini  says that 
Mr H was given its new terms of business although Gemini doesnt have a signed copy on its 
file. But in any event  I dont agree that the term Mr H has pointed  to operates in the way hes 
suggested and entitles him to insist his money  is refunded. 
Further, and in any event,  I think what Mr H was or wasnt told about  the investment, 
including when he would be able to redeem it, is a matter between  him and Stirling 
Associates. I havent considered that. All Im looking at is Mr Hs complaint against Gemini. I 
dont think Gemini is responsible for the advice  Stirling Associates gave. So I havent looked  
into the suitability  or otherwise of that advice, including what Mr H was told about the 
investment, its terms and the risks. 
Ive also thought about if the letter dated  9 March 2012 indicated  that Gemini  would be 
responsible for advice  given earlier by Stirling Associates. But I dont think it did. Transferring  
the servicing or agency for Mr Hs investments  didnt  mean  that Gemini became  responsible  
for the original advice  to invest. The letter makes  is clear  that Gemini  is a new advisory firm. 
I dont think theres anything to suggest that Gemini  remained part of Stirling  Associates or 
that Gemini would be responsible for anything  that had gone  on before. 
I understand Mr H has submitted a claim to FSCS. I dont know  what the outcome was and, 
if successful, to what extent Mr Hs losses  were  met .Theres a limit to the amount that FSCS 
will pay if a claim  is successful and so Mr Hs losses may not be met in full. That is of course 
not at all satisfactory from Mr Hs point of view.  I can understand his frustration and 
annoyance. But, unfortunately  and despite my sympathy for Mr H, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think he can look to Gemini to meet  any losses hes incurred as a result of 
investing in Stirling  Mortimer.   
I think the settlement  suggested by the adjudicator  and which  Gemini  is prepared to meet is 
reasonable. 
Gemini has agreed to refund to Mr H the on going adviser fees which Gemini has received 
plus simple interest at 8% (which should be from the date of deduction up to the date of 
payment). As the payment is to be made  direct to Mr H a deduction equivalent to tax at basic 
rate will be made. Thats fair as it represents money  that would otherwise have been paid to 
Mr H out of his pension fund and subject  to tax. In addition  Gemini has offered to pay Mr H 
£150 for distress  and inconvenience. 
Ive made  an award accordingly. Im not going  to ask Gemini to do any more. 
Ref: DRN88569744my final decision
I uphold the complaint in part. Gemini Financial Planning Ltd should make pay Mr H as Ive 
set out above.  
Details of the calculation should  be supplied to Mr H in a clear and simple  format.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.  
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8856974