K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Secure Trust Bank Plc mis-sold them  accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment insurance - a type of payment protection insurance, (PPI) - in connection with 
a OneBill account.  
background
A OneBill  Account was a type of account used as a way of managing household bills. The 
consumer would pay a weekly amount  which would  then be used to pay monthly bills. It is 
unclear exactly when the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B. However, Mr and Mrs B have said it 
was sold in May 2007 and they have  shown us a OneBill statement which  shows  payments 
from 28 May 2007. So in this decision  I have  assumed the sale took place in May 2007. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Secure Trust disagreed  with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaint was passed  to me. 
In March 2020 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, my 
main reasons were:
I didnt think Secure Trust made the cost of the policy clear to Mr and Mrs B.
And I thought this information would have  made  a difference  to Mr and Mrs B as their 
decision to use a OneBill account  made me think they had a need to closely manage their 
finances.
In my provisional findings I also set out in some detail what  Secure Trust needed to do to put 
things right.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to say they agreed with my provisional findings.
Secure Trust has not replied to the provisional  decision.
Therefore, I see no reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
March 2020.
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN89822132Secure Trust should  put Mr and Mrs B into the position theyd be in now if they had never  
taken out the policy.  
As explained within my provisional findings, when  calculating the compensation it owes        
Mr and Mrs B, Secure  Trust should  assume they paid premiums of £31.00 per month from 
May 2007 until October 2011.
Using these details Secure Trust should:
A.Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the policy.  
B.Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr and Mrs B paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% simple a year. 
C.Secure Trust can take off the amount  Mr and Mrs B got for any successful claims from 
the amount it owes them.
D.Secure Trust should  tell Mr and Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. Secure 
Trust must  give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation 
as set out in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 June 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Secure Trust Bank Plc mis-sold them accident,  sickness and 
unemployment insurance  - a type of payment  protection insurance, (PPI) - in connection  with a 
OneBill account. 
Ref: DRN89822133background
A OneBill Account was a type of account used as a way of managing household  bills. The consumer 
would pay a weekly amount which would then be used to pay monthly  bills. It is unclear exactly when  
the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B. However Mr and Mrs B have said it was sold in May 2007 and they 
have shown us a OneBill statement which shows payments  from 28 May 2007.  So in this decision I 
have assumed the sale took place in May 2007. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld. Secure Trust disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
 
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. This is because Secure Trust needed  to give them  
clear, fair and not-misleading information about the cost of the policy so that they could make an 
informed decision whether  to buy it or not. I dont  think Secure Trust did this. 
My understanding is that the PPI premiums  were  charged monthly  and were  calculated  on the amount 
of monthly bill payment.  And cost of the PPI was presented  as being  xp per £1 unit.
Ive not seen  a copy of the application form for the PPI which isnt surprising  bearing in mind the 
length of time that has elapsed. 
Secure Trust has told us, A customer could calculate the cost of the policy to within a reasonable 
degree of accuracy  by calculating their weekly or monthly bill payment, plus the OneBill account 
management fee, and multiplying that by the pence per pound figure. We dont feel thats a 
particularly complex calculation,  and in any event  the cost of the policy  was included  on account 
statements.
I disagree I dont think this was a clear way of expressing the cost of the policy. I dont think it is 
reasonable to expect  a consumer  to carry out a calculation to work out what their premiums might be.
So Im not satisfied that this would have been good enough for Mr and Mrs B to understand how 
much they would have to pay for the insurance at the start of the policy.  Also,  without further 
explanation, I dont this would have made it clear that the cost could increase if and when  the monthly  
amounts Mr and Mrs B paid into their OneBill  account went  up to allow for any rise in household  bills. 
I think  that this information  would have mattered to Mr and Mrs B, as their decision to use a OneBill 
account makes me think  they had a need to keep a close eye on their household  expenditure. So its 
likely that fully understanding the cost of the cover would have  been very important for them. And I 
think they would only have taken the insurance  if they had felt that it was good value in his 
circumstances. Taking into account their circumstances  I dont think they would  have felt that the 
policy was good value to them had they known  from the outset how much they were going to have to 
pay. 
This means  that I dont  think that Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policy if theyd received 
clear information about its cost. So I think that Mr and Mrs B have  lost out because  of Secure Trusts 
failure to clearly explain  the policys cost.
putting things  right
Secure Trust should put Mr and Mrs B into the position theyd be in now if they had never  taken out 
the policy.  
Ref: DRN89822134In response to the adjudicators findings I note Secure Trust has said it would be difficult to calculate  
compensation as it no longer has records of the start and end date of the policy, the cover provided  or 
the premiums paid.
Ive thought about this and I think  it is fair to assume the PPI began in May 2007  as this is when Mr 
and Mrs B recall  taking out the OneBill  account.  And also because  Ive seen a statement saying the 
account had PPI attached which mentions a payment being made in May 2007. The statement show 
the policy  provided cover  against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Secure Trust told it had no records of the OneBill  account as they were  deleted from its records seven 
years after the account closed. I have seen  a screenshot of Secure  Trusts records which show Mr 
and Mrs Bs account details were deleted on 1 October 2018. For the purposes of calculating 
compensation its therefore reasonable to assume then that             Mr and Mrs Bs account  was 
closed on 1 October 2011.
Ive not seen  any evidence to make me think Mr and Mrs B may have  cancelled the PPI before the 
account was closed so when calculating  the compensation Secure Trust  should assume  the PPI ran 
from May 2007 to October  2011.
My understanding is that around the time of the sale the premiums charged were calculated at the 
rate of around 8.5 pence for every £1.00 of the account holders monthly  bill payment. Unless  in 
response to this provisional decision Secure Trust can provide  persuasive evidence  that the premium 
was different it should use this figure when calculating the compensation  it owes Mr and Mrs B.
The statement shows that in May 2007 Mr and Mrs B paid Secure Trust  £1,108.30 and in August  
2007 they paid £1,087.70. That means Mr and Mrs B were paying approximately £365.00 per month 
to their OneBill account, meaning  their monthly PPI premium would  be around £31.00 per month.  
Again, unless  in response to this provisional  decision Secure Trust  can provide persuasive  evidence 
that the premium  was different it should use this figure when calculating the compensation  it owes Mr 
and Mrs B.
So, when calculating the compensation  it owes Mr and Mrs B, Secure Trust  should assume  they paid 
premiums of £31.00 per month from May 2007  until October 2011.
Using these details Secure  Trust  should:
E.Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the policy. 
F.Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr and Mrs B paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year. 
G.Secure  Trust  can take off the amount Mr and Mrs B got for any successful claims  from the 
amount it owes them.
H.Secure  Trust should tell Mr and Mrs B what  its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Secure Trust to take off tax from this interest. Secure Trust  must  
give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN89822135my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold this complaint and direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay      Mr  and Mrs B 
compensation as set out above. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8982213