K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) on a store-card.
background
Briefly:
In 2003 Ms G took out a PPI policy at the same time as taking out a high-street store card in-
store.
The policy provided  protection for Ms Gs account payments in the event she couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 15% of the outstanding  card balance until Ms G returned to work or the balance  was paid 
off  whichever happened  first. The policys  basic cost was £1.50 for every  £100 Ms G owed 
on the card.
At the time of the sale Ms G was employed and she said she was entitled to sick pay of six 
months full pay followed  by six months  half pay. She said she had savings  of around two 
months of her pay she couldve used to make her repayments and she was in good health 
at the time.
AXAs records show Ms G paid around  £170 in total for PPI and the account closed in 2009.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said they thought  AXA 
hadnt made the cost and the benefit of the policy clear enough. And said that given Ms Gs 
circumstances  in particular her existing means  at the time  they didnt think it likely that 
she would  still have  gone ahead and taken out the policy had AXA been clearer about 
things.
AXA disagrees  it says it doesnt think Ms G was entitled to the level of sick pay she said 
she had at the time, so thinks Ms G wouldve benefitted from the cover.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint and make an award  in her favour. 
My reasons  are set out below.
This was a sale in-store. AXA didnt recommend the cover  to Ms G  Ive not seen anything 
to persuade me that the interaction went as far as this. So AXA didnt have to ensure that 
PPI was right for her. But it did have  to give her enough clear and timely information about  
the policy so she could make an informed decision about it.
Im not persuaded AXA did do that. 
Ref: DRN85497302For example I can see that at the top of the store  card application  the cost was described as 
being 1.5p for every  £1 of outstanding account balance. But this wasnt  the full story about 
the cost and how it would be calculated. It didnt  say here that the premiums would be added  
to the account  balance  and would attract interest or that theyd continue to be charged to the 
account during  the period  of a claim. And the benefit of the policy  wasnt  set out here. 
Instead Ms G was directed to another part of the application where  she could find out more. 
But it wasnt  for Ms G to go and find the important information about the cover   it was for 
AXA to highlight this to her and to do so in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way. I dont think 
AXA did do that.
So I dont  think AXA acted  fairly and reasonably when it sold her PPI.
I now need to go on and consider whether Ms G has lost out as a result   that is would her 
decision to take out PPI have likely  been  different had things happened  as they should 
have? 
And having done so, I think Ms G has lost out.
At the time of the sale Ms G has told us that she was entitled to sick pay of six months full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay. AXA says it thinks Ms G is overstating  her sick pay 
given her job and tenure.  But I dont think what Ms G says is implausible.  Unlike  some other 
professions Im not persuaded that her tenure is of great importance in determining the likely 
level of her sick pay. As the adjudicator said, its clear that shed passed her probation  period 
by the time she took out the policy. And given her occupation type, I dont think what  shes 
said her sick pay was is significantly out of line with what I might  expect.  
But even if I thought Ms G was overstating her sick pay (which  I dont) and the true position 
was at a slightly  lower level, I dont think it wouldve been significantly lower  in light of her 
occupation type. Im mindful too that Ms G says she had some savings she couldve used to 
make her repayments and Ive no reason  to doubt  what Ms G says about the level of savings 
she had at the time.
So while in my view the policys  benefit level was high compared to other policies of this 
type, so was its cost.  Because  of this I think that given Ms G circumstances, if shed been 
given clearer information about the cost and benefit of the PPI, shed have  more  likely than 
not have declined the policy and not gone ahead.  I dont think that in weighing up the cost 
and benefit proposition of the policy alongside her existing means, Ms G would have likely 
thought it still worked for her.
So for these reasons I think Ms G has lost out as a result of taking out PPI with her store  
card and AXA needs to do something to put things right.
putting things right
AXA should  put Ms G in the financial position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.AXA should find out how much Ms G would  have owed when she closed her credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN85497303So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
AXA should  then refund the difference between what Ms G owed when  she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.AXA should add simple interest  on the difference between what Ms G would have owed  
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  AXA works  out what Ms G would have owed each month without PPI  Ms G 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, AXA should also pay simple  interest  on the 
extra she paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Ms G wouldve 
owed AXA something  on her card. The interest rate should be 8%.
D.AXA should tell Ms G what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  AXA must give Ms 
G a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct AXA France IARD  
to pay Ms G compensation as Ive set out above.  I make no other  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8549730