K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund a disputed  bank transfer made  from 
her account.  Mrs S says she did not make or authorise this transfer.  And shed like the funds 
returned.
background
On the 28 May 2012 Mrs S went to her Santander branch and opened a savings account in 
her sole name and deposited £20,000 from her Santander joint account. Mrs S says she was 
told the account was only accessible through the branch. On 9 June 2012  Mrs S says,  her 
estranged husband - Ill call A  transferred £20,000  back into their joint account and then 
into a sole account  he had with another bank. Mrs S said she found out about this when 
visiting the branch  a few weeks later.
Mrs S said she didnt  use internet banking  and A controlled the accounts. She said she used 
cash only and she thinks A must  have  logged in using her online details and transferred the 
money out of her account without her knowledge.
Santander investigated, it said the transfer  had been  made  using Mrs Ss online details and 
from a known IP address. The transfer into As sole account was made  using his online 
details. Santander  did not uphold the complaint and said since Mrs S s online details had 
been used for the transfer then she must  have made the transfer  or given A her details.
Mrs S referred the issue to us. One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint and 
said she thought  the transfer was most likely  made by Mrs S, and it was fair for the bank to 
not refund  the disputed transaction.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators view,  so the matter  has come to me for decision.
On reviewing the case I came to a different conclusion to the investigator.  I issued  my 
provisional findings on 5 February 2020.  I gave  Santander and Mrs S until 19 February  to 
respond with any comments.
Mrs S has provided no further information but has agreed with the decision. Santander 
responded to say it agrees with the decision.
relevant considerations
considering authorisation
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 
2009). These explain that a payment out of someones account  can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. The payment service provider must show the payment was 
authenticated. But its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the personalised 
set of procedures  necessary  to authenticate a payment were  used; that doesnt necessarily 
mean that the payment  transaction  was authorised by the account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because  account holders will 
usually be liable for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,  banks  will be 
liable for unauthorised payments. But account holders can become liable for unauthorised 
payments when they havent met certain obligations.  These  obligations are set out in 
Ref: DRN85162142Regulation 57 PSRs  2009. Under  the PSRs the bank can hold the consumer  liable for £50 of 
the disputed transactions but this will only apply if its provided for in the account  terms.
considering gross negligence
Regulation 57 for PSRs  2009 says that account  holders must use their card,  and other 
payment  instruments, in accordance with the terms and conditions governing its issue and 
use. And they must  take all reasonable steps to keep their personalised security credentials, 
such as their PIN and passwords, safe. They must  also tell their bank without undue delay on 
becoming aware that their card is lost or stolen, or that its been used without their consent. If 
an account holder  fails with intent or gross negligence to comply with Regulation  57 for PSRs  
2009, theyll become  liable  for unauthorised payments instead of the bank.  If a bank is alleging  
that an account holder has failed in this way, they must provide supporting evidence.
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  has to be assessed on a case by 
case basis taking into account  all the circumstances.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys guidance  on the PSRs 2017 says:
we interpret  gross negligence to be a higher  standard  than the standard  of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although in this case it is the PSRs 2009 that apply, this commentary from the FCA is still 
relevant as the wording in the PSRs hasnt changed between  2009 and 2017.
When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think  it fair and 
reasonable to conclude,  the use of gross  negligence, rather than mere negligence, 
suggests a lack of care,  that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence
summary of relevant  considerations  in this case
With these relevant considerations in mind  I think there are two key questions in deciding 
what is fair and reasonable here:
-was the disputed transaction authorised by Mrs S; and, if it wasnt;
-can the bank demonstrate that Mrs S failed with gross negligence to comply 
with the obligations  set out in Reg 57 of the PSRs 2009?
Ref: DRN85162143my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
were the transactions authorised by Mrs S?
Generally, unless the payment transaction  is authorised then Santander  has no authority to 
debit the customers  account. So, for me to be satisfied these payments were authorised, I 
first need  to determine  whether they were authenticated.
Authentication is the use of any procedure by which  a bank is able to verify the use of a 
specific payment instrument, including its personalised security features. This can be done  in 
a number of ways (e.g. chip and PIN, card number, CVV and expiry date etc.)
Santander has been able to provide evidence the authentication process  in this case  Mrs Ss 
online log in details,  were  used to authenticate the payment.  Ive seen the electronic records 
which show that Mrs Ss user ID was used  to carry out the transfer.
Regardless of who used the online  banking  details Im satisfied the payment from Mrs Ss 
account was authenticated. As Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated, I then need  
to determine whether  Mrs S consented  to the payments  being  made.
did Mrs S consent to the payment?
A payment out of someones account can only be treated  as authorised  if the payer has 
consented to it. So, the customer must have consented to a payment  transaction  taking 
place. So, Ive gone on to consider here whether  I think  Mrs S consented to the transaction.  
Santander has said Mrs S authorised the transaction because  Mrs Ss log in details  were  
used to carry out the transfer.
Mrs S has said it was A who used her log in details to access  her sole saving account. Mrs S 
has explained she was advised to open a branch account and was reassured the money 
would be safe as she would have to come to the branch to use the account  and only she 
would have the credentials to do so.
Mrs S has said she did not have access to online banking and she only used cash.  The 
evidence on the bank statements suggests Mrs Ss card was used to do supermarket shops 
so its difficult to establish that she only used  cash. I have also seen evidence  Mrs S used 
online banking after July 2012.  Mrs S has said these online banking  transactions were  made  
after the separation to access her new sole accounts.
The evidence shows both transactions used  the same IP address. And the transactions  
happened within one minute of each  other.  The evidence is Mrs S and A were  not together 
at the time of the transactions although  they were  communicating via text message with 
each other.  I have considered whether each person logged  in using their own details. I think 
this is unlikely because  Mrs S and A were not together. The time frame for the transactions  
also makes it more  likely it was one person doing both transactions rather  than two different 
people. The transfers happened within one minute of each other and so it is likely that the 
same person  carried out both transfers.
Ref: DRN85162144Ive also considered if Mrs S could  have done  both transactions. I dont think this is likely  
because although  the same device  was used for both transactions  there is no evidence  
Mrs S had access to As log in details. And in the circumstances - considering the status of 
Mrs S and As relationship and that A was in control  of the finances  this seems unlikely. 
The IP address  for the transactions suggests  the transaction  was carried  out in the 
Staffordshire area which isnt near the family home.
And Im satisfied Mrs S thought the account she had opened was an account which could 
only be accessed in branch. Also,  I dont  think its likely Mrs S would transfer  £20,000 out of 
her sole account and into the joint account and then into As sole account. I cant  see that 
shed gain any benefit from this as it would  put the money out of her reach  and in the control 
of A. For all these reasons I think its unlikely Mrs S carried out the transactions.
Did A carry  out the transactions  without Mrs Ss authority?
Ive thought about whether A could have carried out the transactions as Mrs S says. I think  
this is the most likely explanation. I say this because  A knew Mrs Ss details. The transfers  
were made from a mobile at around  17.33. Ive seen  evidence  the same  device was used for 
both transactions  and although A attended the family home that day, the evidence from the 
police is that he left when they left the property at around 1pm.  Mrs S has confirmed  A was 
not at the property at the time of the transfer. The IP address for the transactions  wasnt  near 
the family  home.
The second  transfer was done immediately after the first transfer at 17.34.  Considering  
Mrs S and A were not in the same place its improbable the timing  of these two transactions  
should happen so close together unless one person  carried  them  both out. So, I think its 
more likely than not A carried out the transfer out of Mrs S savings account to the joint 
account using  her log in details and then using his log in transferred the money out to his 
sole account.
Given all this evidence I dont think Mrs S consented  to the payment out of her savings 
account into the joint account.  Im satisfied Mrs S didnt know the transaction  was taking place 
especially since she thought the account  could only be accessed through the branch by her.
So, on balance considering all the evidence and the reasons given above Im not persuaded 
Mrs S authorised the transaction
Did Mrs S act with gross negligence to comply  with the obligations set out in Reg 57 of the 
PSRs 2009?
Mrs S has said A had her online banking  details, she mentions he was controlling in all 
aspects of the relationship including the finances. Even if that wasnt  the case,  they had 
been married for years and shared a joint account. I dont think  its unusual for one partner to 
do the online banking  in a relationship or for them to know each others  log in details. I dont 
think that this is exceptional  in fact I think its quite usual for partners  who have been married 
or together  for years  and have a joint account to be in the same position.
Ref: DRN85162145I think Mrs S thought there was a risk that A would access the money. And she attempted  to 
mitigate that risk by opening  an account she thought  A couldnt  access. I say this because  
Mrs S was told by the bank the account  she was opening could only be accessed  in branch 
using her credentials. Had she been worried  A could access the money  she would have 
checked her account  balance  sooner, instead  she went into branch five weeks after the 
money had been  taken  out to check her balance.
On balance, considering all the evidence  I dont think Mrs S was grossly  negligent  with her 
security details. I say that because she was told the account she was opening was a branch 
account only. And even  though A had access to Mrs Ss log in details she wouldnt have 
thought he couldve  accessed that money because of the reassurances provided by the 
bank. Her going  into branch in July to check the balance supports this view.
The bank has said Mrs S is responsible for the loss because  she allowed A access  to her 
online details. The PSRs  say she is responsible  if she has been  grossly negligent and the 
bank has the responsibility of showing  this. I dont think  on the evidence Mrs S has been 
grossly negligent.
Fair and reasonable
Ive considered whether the money  was part of the divorce proceedings. Mrs S has 
explained that it didnt form part of the divorce settlement as the money couldnt be found.  
On that basis I am happy to accept the money  wasnt part of any settlement to Mrs S and 
that it is still missing.
Ive considered whether the money  was joint money as it originally came  from a joint 
account. Mrs S has provided information as to how the money came to be transferred into a 
sole Savings account. Money in a joint account belongs to both parties  to the account, not in 
a 50 -50 share. So, I am satisfied Mrs S was entitled to transfer the money  into her savings 
account and the money  was hers. In any event the money was transferred out of her sole 
account and that is the transaction thats in dispute,  so I am persuaded the money  
transferred was hers.
Conclusion
I have firstly considered whether the transfer was authorised, and, on the evidence, I believe 
it was authenticated. But I dont think Mrs S gave consent for the money  to be transferred out 
of her sole savings account.  So, on balance I think the transfer was not authorised by Mrs S.
A had access to Mrs Ss online banking  details so I considered whether this amounted  to 
gross negligence. I have decided  that it isnt for the reasons I have given above.
Although Mrs S and Santander have not provided any further comments, I have 
nevertheless re considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen  nothing  to change  my 
mind and so my provisional  findings stand.
Ref: DRN85162146my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above my final decision  is I uphold Mrs Ss complaint. And I 
direct Santander UK Plc to 
-Refund the disputed  transaction  together  with interest at 8 % from 9 June 2012 
until the date of settlement.
If Santander considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC) to withhold 
income tax from those parts of the award  constituting the 8% interest, it should tell Mrs S 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8516214