K822xComplaint
Miss O complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) applied 
additional charges after the end of her hire agreement term. Shortly before the end of the 
agreement the car was involved in an accident and she was told she would need to repair it. 
She did this but says she wasnt  told that she would be charged while the car was being 
repaired. 
Background 
Miss O entered into a hire agreement with VWFS in September 2016. She says that she 
didnt ask for the agreement to be extended but she did ask for the monthly payments to 
continue. In November 2018, she contacted  VWFS  to say the car had been in an accident. 
She says that she was told to cancel her direct  debit after November  and that repairs  
needed to be carried out and she was offered  a grace period of two weeks.  Miss O says that 
she wasnt contacted  while  her car was in for repairs and wasnt  told that further charges 
would be applied. She says she didnt have  use of the car while it was in for repairs  and 
doesnt think it fair that she is being  charged  for this period. 
VWFS says that Miss O entered into a two year hire agreement that ended  in September  
2018. In August 2018, Miss O contacted  it to ask to extend her lease by a month  as she was 
awaiting delivery of a new car. This changed the end of her agreement  to October 2018. 
Miss O then asked to extend by a further  month  meaning the end of the lease was changed  
to 20 November 2018.
On 12 November, VWFS says Miss O contacted  it to discuss  the collection of the car and 
said that the car had been in an accident.  It says it explained that the car would need to be 
repaired by an authorised repairer  and that Miss O should contact its collections agents in 
regard to the inspection and collection of the car. It says a short grace period would be 
provided while the car was being  repaired and that the list of authorised repairers  was 
provided to Miss O and that Miss O was responsible  for the car until it was returned to 
VWFS.
In February 2019,  VWFS says that its collections  agents  contacted  it to say it had been 
unable to contact  Miss O. A letter was sent to Miss O to explain that inspection and 
collection of the car needed to be arranged within seven days. As Miss O didnt  get in touch  
so VWFS  instructed its collections  agents  to trace and collect the car. On 14 March 2019, 
Miss Os insurance company contacted  VWFS to say the car had been repaired but Miss O 
had refused to collect it. On 3 April the car was collected. 
VWFS issued  an invoice on 10 April for extra days hire charges as Miss O had been in 
possession of the car for an additional 134 days after the end of her agreement. It says 14 
days were waived as a grace period  leaving 120 days. It also sent an invoice for 
refurbishment costs which it later waived.
VWFS says that it didnt  explain the additional  charges  to Miss O but that these were set out 
in her agreement. It also says that a grace period was given to Miss O but she didnt tell it 
when the repairs  were being carried out. It agreed a 30 day grace  period could be applied to 
the charges bringing the total amount of extra hire days to 90.
Our adjudicator thought that VWFS had applied  the charges in line with the agreement. She 
noted that Miss O didnt  have use of the car during the extra time but said that as the car 
Ref: DRN83367392was involved in an accident whilst Miss O was responsible for it, it was fair that she was 
charged for hire costs while it was being  repaired.
Our adjudicator noted that VWFS  had agreed  to apply the 30 day grace  period to Miss Os 
account so that the remaining hire charges related to 90 days.
Miss O didnt  accept our adjudicators view. She said that the number  of days after removing 
the grace period was 76 not 90. She said VWFS were made aware on 14 March 2019 that 
the car could  be collected. She reiterated  that VWFS hadnt told her while her car was being 
repaired that there would be ongoing  charges.  She said the lack of communication made it 
hard for her and her insurers to arrange  the repairs and reiterated that she didnt have use of 
the car during this period.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss O entered into a hire agreement with VWFS and in doing  so she agreed  to its terms. 
The agreement was originally due to end in September 2018 but she asked to extend the 
agreement and informal extensions were applied for a month  and then a further month to 
enable her to continue her agreement while  she was awaiting the arrival  of her new car. This 
meant the end date became 20 November  2018.
Unfortunately while  the car was still in Miss Os possession and subject to the hire 
agreement it was involved in an accident. She contacted VWFS and was told that repairs  
would need to be carryout by an authorised repairer.
I have looked  at the terms of the hire agreement and these say that the hirer must keep the 
car in good  condition and that they are responsible for any damage to the car (aside  form 
wear and tear). Miss O explained that the car had been in an accident and so I find it 
reasonable that she was told repairs would need to be undertaken. 
Miss O has said that the lack of communication with VWFS meant  that it was hard to get the 
repairs carried out. In the call notes provided by VWFS, it says on 12 November Miss O was 
told who to contact regarding the inspection and return of the car and advised  to have the 
repairs carried out. Two days later she was provided with a list of the authorised  repairers. I 
have listened  to the calls provided  from this time and the list of repairers was discussed  and 
information provided. It appears  that there were then conversations  with her insurance 
company regarding this, but I do not find that VWFS caused any unnecessary  delay in this 
process.
Initially Miss O says that a grace period of two weeks was offered and I can see the car was 
in for repairs  for much longer than this. Miss O says that while  her car was in for repair  she 
wasnt contacted  by VWFS. I note the comments made about  contact  but at this stage 
VWFS had explained that the car needed to be repaired and that Miss O should  contact  the 
collections agent about the inspection  and collection. Miss O didnt keep  VWFS informed 
about the repairs and it appears  that when the collections company tried to contact her in 
February 2019 it was unable  to do so. A letter was then sent by VWFS and Miss O didnt  
respond to this. 
Ref: DRN83367393Miss O has said it is unfair that she is being charged  for extra hire days  as her agreement 
had ended and she didnt have use of the car. This is an unfortunate situation and I can see 
why Miss O is upset by the charges. VWFS has accepted that it didnt bring the additional 
charges to Miss Os attention. 
However, the hire agreement sets out compensation will need to be paid if the car isnt 
returned promptly at the end of the hire agreement.  In this case the hire agreement  ended 
on 20 November and the car was collected  on 3 April. Although  I note that VWFS was made 
aware that it was ready for collection on 14 March  2019. 
Miss O queried the amount of days that the extra hire was for. VWFS  has explained that 
payments are made  in arrears and so Miss Os payments were made up to end October  
2018. It has explained how the additional  hire charge days have  been  calculated and I do 
not find that I can say this is incorrect.
Overall, while  I understand why Miss O is upset at the charges that have been applied and I 
can appreciate that she didnt  have use of the car during this period, I do not find I can say 
that VWFS has done anything wrong  by applying  the charges. These have been reduced to 
90 days to allow for the 30 day grace period and I find this reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has 
agreed, reduce the outstanding hire charges to 90 days, and Miss O remains liable for these.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8336739