K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Pinnacle Insurance Plc has unfairly declined  her claim under her pet 
insurance policy. 
background
Mrs H took out a pet insurance policy in April 2018 to cover her pet dog, who Ill call R. In 
June 2018, Rs vet carried out some  x-rays which identified potential damage  to Rs right 
hind cruciate. R underwent surgery to address this. So Mrs H made  a claim under her pet 
insurance policy for the cost of the surgery. She also provided Pinnacle with Rs clinical 
history.
Pinnacle declined  Mrs Hs claim for two reasons. It says the claim falls under an exclusion in 
the policy and is likely  to be pre-existing to the policy start date. This is because Rs clinical 
history makes reference to R suffering from quite  a few issues prior to the policy  starting, 
including problems with his right hind leg, as recently as March  2018. But Mrs H never 
disclosed this information to Pinnacle  on her application for the policy.  Had it known about 
this  Pinnacle says it wouldve applied certain  exclusions. Its now done  this retrospectively 
and as the claim falls under one of the exclusions,  its not covered.
It also notes that R was given an anti-inflammatory in March,  April, and May of 2018,  and it 
thinks this is because his symptoms had continued.  R also had hydrotherapy, and when this 
didnt help with his right hind issues, an x-ray was carried  out by the vet in June 2018. This 
led to the diagnosis for the operation. So Pinnacle  thinks theres enough  evidence  to suggest 
that Rs symptoms started in March 2018  before  the policy started.
Mrs H disagreed with Pinnacles decision. She says that the issues  listed  in the clinical  
history have nothing  to do with the condition R had surgery  for, and so shouldnt affect the 
claim. She provided  a letter from her vet, but Pinnacle didnt change its position. So Mrs H 
brought her complaint  to this service.
Our investigator found that Mrs H told Pinnacle that R didnt have any pre-existing medical 
conditions when she took out the policy. But she was persuaded that the issue being 
claimed for was likely pre-existing and the exclusions had been fairly  applied  for the reasons 
Pinnacle had explained  to Mrs H. So she didnt uphold the complaint. The case has now 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mrs Hs policy doesnt provide cover for any condition that has been investigated by a vet or 
is known to the policyholder prior to the policy start date. And Im aware that Mrs H never 
disclosed any pre-existing conditions when asked about them during her application for the 
policy. Now that Pinnacle is aware  of Rs full clinical history, its applied  exclusions relating to 
issues it thinks are pre-existing   one of them is for right hind leg conditions.
Ref: DRN83341872An insurer  can take certain action, like altering the terms of a policy,  if a qualifying  
misrepresentation has been made in line with the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). In deciding  whether Pinnacle  has acted fairly I need to 
consider whether Mrs H took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation and, if she 
didnt, what Pinnacle  wouldve  done had the correct information been provided.  Under  
CIDRA, a qualifying misrepresentation is either deliberate or reckless   or careless.
During the application for the policy Mrs H was asked;  Has your dog seen a vet for a reason 
other than for annual  health check, routine  vaccination  or other preventative  care?  And   
Are you aware of any condition that your dog may already have or may have had in the 
past? 
CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding  whether a 
consumer took reasonable  care. One is about how clear, and how specific  the questions 
were. I think  the questions that were asked about pre-existing medical conditions  and 
about previous  treatments  for R, were  clear. And Im not persuaded that Mrs H 
demonstrated reasonable care by not answering  these questions  correctly, particularly as R 
had been at the vet just a few weeks before  Mrs H bought her policy. 
So I think there was a qualifying misrepresentation in this case.  Pinnacle  hasnt argued that 
the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  and so Im satisfied its treated it as 
careless.
Pinnacle says that had it known about  Rs clinical history,  it wouldve  entered into the 
contract with Mrs H on different terms, by excluding certain conditions. Under CIDRA, where 
a careless qualifying misrepresentation is made, Pinnacle can treat the contract as if entered 
into on those different terms. So I think Pinnacle has acted fairly by applying  the exclusions it 
did. This means Rs surgery falls under one of the exclusions  and so isnt covered.
Mrs H disagrees  that Rs condition was pre-existing,  so Ive looked  at the policy  definition  of 
this, which  says: 
Pre-existing Condition  means a condition or any complication directly attributable to that 
condition that has been investigated  by a vet or is otherwise known to you, prior to the start 
date of the insurance. This also includes any symptom which  clinical  evidence shows  you 
knew about or where your pet showed symptoms that you would have  been  aware  of prior to 
the start date.
The clinical  notes Ive seen, support  Pinnacles  findings that R saw the vet for lameness in 
the right hind on 28 March  2018.  And it seems  medication and hydrotherapy was put in 
place to help with this. But when neither of these  worked  an x-ray showed  that surgery  was 
needed. Finally, on 18 June 2018,  the examination notes   written prior to the surgery   
stated that R was being assessed for right hind lameness. 
Mrs H has made a claim to Pinnacle for the cost of the surgery.  She says that R underwent 
surgery for damage to his cruciate. And when she saw the vet in March  2018, they made  a 
note that there was no cranial draw at that stage.  So she argues the cruciate damage didnt 
occur until after the policy start date  and so wasnt a pre-existing condition.
Ref: DRN83341873I accept Mrs Hs point that R wasnt specifically diagnosed with cruciate damage until later.  
But under this policy, a pre-existing condition also includes any complication  directly 
attributable to that condition that has been  investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to 
you, prior to the start date of the insurance.  
The information Ive seen suggests  that the right hind lameness led to the discovery  of the 
cruciate damage and subsequent surgery. So it seems likely  to me that the cruciate  damage 
was linked to issues R had been  suffering from  prior to the policy starting.  And R was 
evidently under investigation for the matter. So Im satisfied that the condition  being claimed 
for in this case,  falls under the definition of a pre-existing condition.
It follows that I think Mrs Hs claim has been fairly  declined for the reasons Pinnacle has 
already explained to her. So I wont be asking Pinnacle to pay it.
Ive considered all of Mrs Hs comments, including what shes  said about Pinnacle no longer 
agreeing to cover the costs for Rs hydrotherapy  treatment. Pinnacle correctly  told Mrs H that 
hydrotherapy cover is included under her policy. But it also told her shed have to submit a 
claim form for this. And a claim form allows an insurer to assess  the circumstances of the 
claim before agreeing  to cover it. So just because cover was available,  it didnt mean  it 
would definitely  be agreed.
This part of the claim has subsequently been  declined, as cover for this type of treatment 
doesnt apply  to pre-existing conditions. This doesnt  seem  unreasonable  in the 
circumstances of this case,  so these points dont change my conclusion.
Im aware that this isnt the outcome  Mrs H is hoping for, and so my findings will likely come  
as a disappointment  to her. But I hope  she can understand  why Ive reached  this outcome 
for the reasons Ive explained above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8334187