K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Ms S, the executors of Mr Rs estate, complain about Cofunds  Limiteds  refusal to 
pay the proceeds directly  to Mrs R, the beneficiary. 
background
The business rejected the complaint. It said that in order to comply  with anti-money 
laundering regulations, the proceeds  could only be paid to the executors  of the estate or a 
solicitor acting for them. 
The executors believe  the business  is wrong  and say the beneficiary  has received direct  
payment from other businesses in similar circumstances. They want the money paid directly 
to the beneficiary,  and are unhappy  that despite  instructions  from their solicitor, the business 
remains unwilling.  
The business said it will transfer the money  to one of the executors, provided both the 
executors agree to this in writing as they dont have a joint bank account.
One of our adjudicators having  considered the complaint didnt think  it should be upheld. 
She said the decision not to pay the beneficiary  directly was a decision the business  was 
entitled to make in the legitimate exercise of its commercial  judgement.  
The executors dont accept the adjudicators  view and have requested  an ombudsmans 
decision. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions. On the face of the evidence, and 
on balance, despite  what the executors say I dont think the business refusal to pay the 
beneficiary directly  in order to comply with the law  is unreasonable  in the circumstances.  
The business made its position clear,  that in order  to comply with anti-money laundering 
regulations, it cant pay the beneficiary  directly, but it can pay the executors or a solicitor 
instructed by them. I cant criticise the business  taking this decision and doing what  it 
believes it needs to do to comply with its legal requirements.
Im conscious that the anti-money laundering regulations  are something that the business  is 
required to comply with by law and that it can be severely punished for failing to do so.   
So, if the decision not to pay the beneficiary directly  was made  in the exercise of its 
reasonable interpretation of the requirements of the regulations, which  I believe it was, this is 
not an issue our service would get involved in.  
It may be that other  businesses have procedures in place which would allow  them to pay the 
beneficiary directly or the circumstances under which the beneficiary was paid are different 
Ref: DRN89390232to this situation. But that doesnt mean the business has done anything wrong in this 
instance. 
Despite what the solicitor says, Im not persuaded that the business is deliberately being 
difficult or using the anti-money laundering regulations as an excuse and I can see no 
reason it would do so.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939023