K820x#14complaint
Miss C complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly  settled another drivers 
claim against her motor insurance policy.
background 
Miss Cs car was involved in an accident  with another car. She accepted that it was her fault. 
But she was unhappy  that Admiral settled  the other drivers personal injury claim.  She felt 
that the claim was false and that Admiral hadnt  investigated it properly. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that Miss Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought 
Admiral had reviewed the evidence  fairly.  Miss C didnt agree and so her complaint has been  
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral settled the other drivers personal injury claim against  Miss C, but not the claim from 
the other drivers passenger. As the investigator  explained to Miss C, we dont decide whether 
or not a persons claim  is fraudulent, as this is the role of the courts. Instead  our role in 
complaints of this kind is simply  to investigate whether the insurer  acted fairly and reasonably, 
on the information available to them, when they made the decision to settle the claim. 
Miss C believed that the personal injury claims were fraudulent.  She said as follows.  Admiral  
didnt ask her what happened  or check her cars black box before they settled the other 
drivers claim. If they had they would have known the other driver couldnt have been injured, 
because she had only caused minor  damage to the other cars paintwork and there was no 
impact. The other driver had only mentioned injury after they had been  unable to come to an 
agreement to pay for his cars repairs without involving her insurer. That was because  the 
other driver wouldnt give Miss C a proper garage  estimate for the claimed repair costs. The 
other drivers  other behaviour showed  them to be untrustworthy. It was suspicious  that the 
other driver had not gone on to claim under her policy for the damage  to their car. She also 
felt that Admirals decision to settle  with the other  driver without  evidence  of injury  had 
encouraged the passenger to make  a claim too. Overall  she felt that Admiral didnt protect 
her rights and interests. 
I can see that, under her policy  at page  33, Admiral does have the right to conduct  the 
defence or settlement of any claim  on your behalf.  This allows  Admiral  to settle any claim 
against the policy as they see fit, whether Miss C agrees with it or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies and insurers  are entitled to make  a 
commercial decision about  whether its reasonable for them  to contest a claim in court or 
better for them to settle it to avoid legal  and medical  and court costs.
Miss C accepted that the accident was her fault.  She also accepted  that there had been 
contact between her car and the other car sufficient  to damage its paintwork. Against that 
background, Admiral  spoke to the other driver, who said that they had experienced pain after 
the accident, and had taken medicine for that. They had not seen  a doctor. 
Ref: DRN88521872Admiral considered that the other drivers  claim  was not inconsistent  with a low speed 
contact between two cars.  So they made  the other  driver an offer in full and final settlement 
of the personal  injury  claim, without medical  evidence. 
I appreciate that Miss C is adamant that the contact between the two cars was not enough to 
cause injury, but its not uncommon for parties to give conflicting accounts of an event, and 
there was no independent evidence.  So I cant say it was unreasonable for Admiral to decide 
to settle the other drivers  claim  anyway. Insurers will often settle  a claim quickly  and at lower 
cost, and without  medical  evidence  (given that can be costly to obtain),  particularly  in low 
speed accidents. As Admiral explained to Miss C here, this is in order to prevent potential  
court action, and the higher costs that would involve. I think Admiral have given a persuasive 
argument about why that is, and they explained it to Miss C. Miss C may not agree, but 
Admiral have that discretion and I cant say that theyve exercised  it unreasonably.  And even 
if the other  driver didnt then pursue a claim for their car to be repaired,  that does not 
necessarily mean that their personal injury  claim wasnt genuine,  as people dont always 
pursue low value  car damage claims.
As regards  the passengers personal  injury claim, Admiral  did investigate this and it appears 
that they were  gearing up to challenge  the claim when the passengers representative  
confirmed that the passenger was not continuing with their claim. Miss C feels that this 
supports her view that Admiral should have challenged the other drivers claim too. But I 
dont think that follows, because by then Admiral  had good persuasive evidence to suggest 
that the passengers claim was dubious; the other  driver  had told them  that the passenger  
had not been injured  in the incident.
I can see that Miss C feels very strongly about this and is frustrated by what she feels  was 
Admirals lack of action. She is unhappy  that the claim may make her future  premiums  go 
up. But its her liability  for the incident  which will make her premiums  go up, and the amount 
of the claim settlement doesnt affect that. So overall, on the evidence  that Admiral  had, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for them to settle the other drivers claim as they did, and so I 
dont ask Admiral to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above it is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Admiral  to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852187