K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  RAC Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim under 
their breakdown insurance policy.
Reference to RAC includes their agents.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out fully comprehensive  European breakdown cover for their car and 
caravan with RAC. They planned a family holiday in a number of European  countries that 
was to last just over three weeks. They intended  to drive to various caravan sites in their car 
with the caravan in tow. They pre-booked  and either  paid in full or paid deposits for all the 
sites they were to stay at.
Unfortunately, on the first day of their trip (on 28 July 2017) while they were abroad driving in 
the middle lane of a motorway, one of the wheels on their caravan became detached. 
Mr and Mrs W, and their children, were stranded in the middle lane and called RAC  for help. 
RAC initially couldnt find a record of their membership, but later did. Mr and Mrs W said that 
given the dangerous situation they were in, and because  RAC said their recovery would take 
longer than an hour, the police arranged  recovery  of the caravan. I understand the police 
recovered the caravan to a local garage. As the caravan was too big to fit in the garage,  they 
were unable to help. Mr and Mrs W said that RAC had to arrange  for another  suitable  garage 
to assess the caravan.
Mr and Mrs W said that during the week following the breakdown (between 31 July and 
4 August) they made numerous phone calls to RAC to find out what  was happening with 
their caravan. Following  the breakdown, I understand Mr and Mrs W had no choice but to 
leave the caravan unattended near the garage they were recovered to by the police. Mr and 
Mrs W were able to continue their holiday as they had their car. But they had to make 
alternative accommodation arrangements given they no longer had their caravan.
Mr and Mrs W said that RACs communication was poor as they had to repeat themselves 
every time they called them.  And they said that it appeared that RAC didnt keep records  of 
what had gone  on before.  On 31 July, RAC told Mr and Mrs W that they were  making  
enquiries as to where the caravan could be taken to for repairs.  Mr and Mrs W said that 
during a call on 1 August, RAC told them  that they had no record of the breakdown, although 
later on during that same call RAC  said that if the caravan  could be repaired it would be, but 
if it couldnt be repaired it would be sent back (repatriated) to the UK within two weeks.
Mr and Mrs W said that during a call with RAC on 2 August, RAC said that they didnt suffer 
a breakdown but had an accident,  suggesting they werent covered under the breakdown 
cover. RAC also told Mr and Mrs W that they would contact their caravan insurer in the UK. 
On 4 August,  their caravan insurer told Mr and Mrs W that RAC had told them (the caravan 
insurer) that they wouldnt be able to help with the caravan because the incident wasnt  
covered by their breakdown policy. When Mr and Mrs W called RAC later that day, they said 
RAC told them that they didnt have cover, and that even  if they did the incident wasnt  
covered under the policy because it was a tyre puncture, which  wasnt covered. After Mr 
and Mrs W made a number of further calls, RAC  accepted  that they had full European 
breakdown cover. RAC  then confirmed that they were dealing with the claim.
Ref: DRN88402312During the call on 4 August between RAC and Mrs W, Mrs W said that RAC told her that the 
caravan would be returned to the UK. Mr and Mrs W said they told RAC that they wanted the 
caravan to be repaired so that their alternative  accommodation costs  could be minimised.  Mr 
and Mrs W said that they asked RAC during  that call to confirm if the call was recorded and 
for RAC to make a note that the decision to return the caravan  to the UK without it being 
repaired was RACs decision and not theirs. RACs version of events on this point is different 
to Mr and Mrs Ws. They  said that during a call with Mrs W on 1 August, when they 
explained the difficulties they were having in finding  a suitable garage, Mrs W told them that 
if a suitable garage  hadnt  been  found  by 2 August, repatriation should be considered . RAC 
said that during  a call with Mrs W on 4 August, she confirmed she wanted  the caravan 
returned to the UK. 
On 7 August,  Mr and Mrs W received an email from their caravan insurer saying they (the 
caravan insurer) had been told by RAC that they (RAC) wouldnt be returning  the caravan to 
the UK because Mr and Mrs W werent covered for the incident. When Mr and Mrs W spoke 
with RAC  later that day, Mr and Mrs W said RAC  told them that their caravan insurer  would  
have to arrange for the caravan to be returned  to the UK. After a number of further calls RAC 
confirmed that they would have  the caravan returned to the UK. RAC said the process would 
start on 8 August and take up to two weeks. Mr and Mrs W complained on 8 August.
Mr and Mrs W said they received an email from their caravan insurer on 14 August saying, 
having spoken to RAC,  they (the caravan insurer) were under the impression that RAC 
wouldnt be returning the caravan to the UK, because RAC  said the caravan wasnt within  
their liability. But when  Mr and Mrs W contacted RAC later that day, RAC  said that the 
planning to arrange the caravans return the UK was at an advanced stage . On 16 August, 
RAC sent Mr and Mrs W a text message saying the repatriation of your trailer to the UK is 
now dispatched.
Mr and Mrs W said RAC breached the terms and conditions of the breakdown cover 
because no inspection or fault diagnosis  was done  to assess  the damage to see whether 
any permanent or temporary repair could  have been  done.  Nor have they received  a report 
from RAC detailing the extent of the damage  and the repairs and spare  parts needed to 
make the caravan roadworthy. Mr and Mrs W said that because  the caravan wasnt repaired, 
they incurred additional accommodation costs because they couldnt stay in their caravan as 
planned. They said they spent long periods of time making numerous phone calls trying to 
sort things  out. 
Mr and Mrs W said their originally planned  holiday,  on the basis they would be staying in 
their caravan, would  have  cost them £1,177.38. But they ended up paying  an additional 
€2,235.43 for alternative accommodation  costs.  On its return  to the UK, the cost of repair to 
their caravan  was £2,515.79, which I understand was paid for by their caravan insurer.
RAC upheld  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint in part. They offered £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience they suffered as a result of the poor service.  I understand  that 
RAC also paid Mr and Mrs W £1,200, which is the policy maximum for additional 
accommodation costs.  They  also paid £20, which I understand was an additional fee Mr and 
Mrs W incurred  because they changed their ferry booking to return  to the UK a day earlier.  
Mr and Mrs W think this didnt go far enough and they feel RAC should  pay them £5,000  
compensation.
As Mr and Mrs W werent happy with RACs decision,  they brought their complaint to our 
service. One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. She felt that RAC acted fairly. But 
Ref: DRN88402313as Mr and Mrs W didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 17 April 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. I have  to decide  if RAC have treated Mr and Mrs W in a 
fair and reasonable way.
The policy says:
If your vehicle breaks down or is involved in a road traffic  collision in Europe 
during a journey, we will send help to either
1 Repair the vehicle at the roadside. This could be a permanent or temporary  
repair; or
2 If we are unable to repair the vehicle at the roadside, we will 
a recover the vehicle and passengers to a local garage for fault diagnosis  on 
the vehicle,
b pay for the initial fault diagnosis to find the next course of action,
c contribute towards the garage labour charges  up to the amount on your 
schedule [the policy schedule stated Garage Labour up to £1,000 if repairs  
can be completed within 7 working hours],
d help you purchase replacement parts if they cannot be found  locally, and 
pay for them to be delivered,  and
RAC never sent an engineer to help Mr and Mrs W. So RAC  didnt assess  the 
caravan to see if it could  be repaired at the roadside. Nor did they recover  it to a 
garage for fault diagnosis. 
Ive seen the repair invoice provided  by Mr and Mrs W. The invoice shows  the work  
done included  Replacement of Complete Axle, Handbrake assembly,  A Frame 
Cover, Offside Wheel spat & seals. Given the complete axle had to be replaced,  I 
dont think it would have  been possible for RACs mobile engineer to repair the 
caravan at the roadside even temporarily. So I think had an engineer attended they 
would have had to have recovered the caravan to a garage for fault diagnosis as 
required under  the policy.  But that didnt happen  either and it was the police that 
helped Mr and Mrs W by recovering their caravan to a local garage.  That garage 
wasnt suitable given  the caravan was too big to fit inside it. 
I think that as soon as RAC became aware that the first garage was unsuitable,  they 
should have made arrangements  to find a suitable garage for the caravan to be 
recovered to. While RAC said they found  a garage that was 90 miles away  that said it 
would take around  10 days to carry  out repairs, I think that RAC could have done 
more. I understand  it was a Friday evening and that it was likely that a number of 
garages would have been closed  over the weekend, but Mr and Mrs W have said 
that their internet  research revealed  that there were some 17 caravan garages within 
25 kilometres of where  their caravan was recovered to. I think  RAC should have 
made efforts over the weekend and at the start of the week to find a suitable garage 
for the caravan to be assessed as soon as possible, but I dont think  they did that.
Ref: DRN88402314Its clear that there was a lot of confusion on RACs part as to whether or not Mr and 
Mrs W were covered under  the policy for assistance.  RAC  seemed to change their 
position several times on this issue. And I think  that confusion was a likely factor  as 
to why they didnt make  reasonable  efforts to locate a suitable garage.  If RAC 
believed Mr and Mrs W werent covered under the policy,  I think its unlikely they 
would have made reasonable efforts to find a suitable garage to assess the caravan.
I have to consider  whats likely to have happened  if RAC had recovered the caravan 
to a suitable garage in a timely manner. Mr and Mrs W said that when the caravan 
was eventually returned to the UK it was repaired  by a car mechanic within  six hours 
and not by a specialist caravan mechanic. Although when I asked Mr and Mrs W to 
obtain documentary  confirmation from the repairing garage to show they repaired the 
caravan in six hours, they (the garage)  refused  to provide that information citing 
confidentiality. So I dont  have any expert  engineering  evidence  to say how long it 
took to repair the caravan. But looking at the repair invoice,  I think that once a garage 
had the necessary parts the repair could have been  carried out within  a reasonable 
period of time, I think  within days.  
Mr and Mrs Ws policy covered them up to a maximum of £1,200 for additional 
accommodation expenses  in the event  they were unable to use their pre-arranged 
accommodation, in other words their caravan. So I think that had RAC complied with 
their obligations  under the policy its likely that Mr and Mrs Ws caravan would have 
been repaired before  they used up the £1,200 cover  they had for additional 
accommodation. Had that happened  I dont  think that they would have incurred all 
the additional accommodation  costs  they did.
One important  area of disagreement between the parties is the decision to have the 
caravan returned  to the UK. RAC  have  said that Mrs W told them  during a call on 1 
August that if a suitable garage  hadnt been found  by 2 August, repatriation should  
be considered. RAC said that during a call with Mrs W on 4 August,  she confirmed 
she wanted the caravan returned to the UK. But Mr and Mrs W dispute  that. They 
said that during  the call on 4 August they told RAC that they wanted the caravan to 
be repaired  in the country it broke down in so that their alternative accommodation 
costs could be minimised. Mr and Mrs W said that they asked RAC during that call to 
confirm if the call was recorded and for RAC to make a note that the decision to 
return the caravan  to the UK without it being repaired was RACs decision and not 
theirs. 
RACs claim notes have  an entry  on 4 August 2017 that says the following:
 [Mrs W told] repatriation of the caravan was decided by RAC [Mrs W] 
would have preferred for the caravan to be fixed  in [oversees]. [Mrs W] 
stresses that it wasnt their decision to repatriate
RAC have  said that the relevant call recordings were only kept for two months so 
they are no longer available. But Mr and Mrs W complained within two weeks  of the 
breakdown so I think RAC should have retained the calls. I note that the policy says: 
It is our decision  whether  to get your broken  down  vehicle  home  or have it 
repaired locally, unless you have comprehensive  plus and repair costs 
exceed £500 in which case you can choose
Ref: DRN88402315As RAC didnt have  the caravan assessed it wasnt  known  at that time if the cost of 
repair would exceed  £500, which according  to the policy  was the only circumstance 
in which  Mr and Mrs W could decide if the caravan was to be repaired or returned to 
the UK. So I think not repairing the caravan and returning it to the UK was RACs 
decision.
The policy says that RAC would  contribute  up to £1,000 for labour charges  if the 
caravan could be repaired within seven working  hours at a garage it was recovered 
to abroad. Given the absence of engineering evidence saying how long it would have  
taken to repair the caravan, I cant say the repair would  have been  completed within 
seven hours.  So I dont think RAC would have had to contribute towards the labour 
costs had the caravan been  repaired abroad. 
I understand the repair cost was paid for by Mr and Mrs Ws caravan insurer  when it 
was repaired in the UK. So had the caravan been repaired abroad  I think  its likely 
that one of the following  two things would have happened: (1) Mr and Mrs Ws 
caravan insurer would have paid the overseas garage for the repair; or (2) Mr and 
Mrs W would  have paid for the repair, but would have later been reimbursed by their 
caravan insurer. So I dont think RAC not contributing towards the labour costs would 
have caused a financial loss to Mr and Mrs W given their caravan insurer  paid for the 
repair. And I think they would have  done  the same had it been  repaired oversees.
Had the caravan  been repaired as soon as possible after the breakdown,  Mr and Mrs 
W, and their children, would have  been able to continue  their holiday as planned. 
And I think they would  have avoided the inconvenience of worrying about the 
caravan and having to make the many phone calls they did. 
I intend to require RAC to pay all of Mr and Mrs Ws additional accommodation  costs.  
If not already done so, Mr and Mrs W should  provide RAC with a breakdown of all 
their planned  accommodation costs with supporting  invoices. They should also 
provide a breakdown of their actual  accommodation  costs with supporting invoices. 
Mr and Mrs W said that their original  planned accommodation costs were £1,177.38.  
But from the information I have seen, some  of the payments included in that total 
were only deposits, which  would mean  their total planned costs were  higher. I also 
understand that one of their deposits  was refunded to them  on the condition that it 
was used as part payment for alternative  accommodation at the same site. So the 
parties should agree what the correct  additional  accommodation costs  incurred were. 
I understand that RAC have  already paid £1,200  towards additional accommodation 
costs which  should  be factored  into the calculation. I also intend to require  RAC  to 
add simple interest at 8% a year to any settlement  due to Mr and Mrs W from the 
date they made payment until the refund is made.  
I understand that Mr and Mrs W may have incurred some bank charges for foreign 
currency payments made using their UK bank card(s). I intend to require RAC to 
refund those charges together with simple  interest at 8% a year on presentation of 
evidence that those charges were incurred.
There is some confusion  as to the amount  of compensation RAC offered Mr and Mrs 
W. I have seen correspondence in which they first offered £100; then they said they 
were offering  £50 more  which  made  the total £150;  then later they offered £500. I 
understand that RAC later told our service that the total compensation they offered 
was £500. But I think £650 should be paid in recognition of the distress and 
Ref: DRN88402316inconvenience Mr and Mrs W experienced given the poor service  they received.  I 
know that Mr and Mrs W feel that RAC  should  pay £5,000 compensation. But 
intervention from our service is intended to put consumers, where possible, in the 
position they would have  been in had a mistake not occurred. And while we do make 
compensatory awards for distress and inconvenience, we do not punish  businesses 
with punitive awards  of compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. RAC accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr and Mrs W made the following comments:
That I didnt have  all the evidence because RAC didnt provide the telephone 
recordings.
The process to start the repatriation of the caravan was delayed.
Despite Mr and Mrs W providing RAC with all the relevant information  there  was 
confusion throughout the claim.
The problems led to Mr and Mrs W and their children to experience  stress and 
inconvenience, which substantially  reduced  the enjoyment of their holiday.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same.
I acknowledged that I wasnt provided with the phone recordings so I based my findings on 
the evidence that was available  to me. I dont believe that not having the phone recordings 
prejudiced Mr and Mrs W as I found in their favour  by upholding their complaint. I also found 
that RACs service was poor and that Mr and Mrs W and their children experienced distress 
and inconvenience,  which is why I have asked RAC to pay compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  in part and require RAC Insurance  
Limited to:
Pay all of Mr and Mrs Ws additional  accommodation costs  as explained above. RAC 
should add simple interest at 8% a year to any refund due to Mr and Mrs W from the 
date they made payment until the refund is made.1
Refund any bank  charges for foreign currency payments made  towards additional 
accommodation expenses which Mr and Mrs W made using their UK bank  card(s).  
Any refund should  include simple interest at 8% a year on presentation of evidence  
that those charges  were incurred.
Pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £650 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they experienced. This amount includes any amounts already paid. This should be 
paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr and Mrs W have accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
1 If RAC consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr and Mrs W how much they have taken off. They  should  also give them a 
certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN88402317Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.   
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8840231