K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July. A copy is attached and forms part of 
this decision. In my provisional decision I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint in part  
because although  I didnt think the policy was mis-sold initially,  it should have ended when 
Mr and Mrs L repaid the mortgage it was supporting.
Mr and Mrs L have accepted my findings. Santander doesnt agree so Ive considered the 
additional comments its made before reaching  my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander says two things: firstly  that in the policy, the Agreement I referred to in my 
provisional decision is the policy agreement  not the mortgage agreement. It hasnt 
provided any evidence  to support that statement. Instead it says this was a standalone 
policy, what was taken  out separately  to the mortgage. So the policy  could be used 
alongside another mortgage, whoever the provider  was.
Im not persuaded by that argument. In the definitions section of the policy,  Agreement is 
defined as Your credit  agreement with the Society  which is secured by a land mortgage on 
residential property. Im satisfied Agreement refers to a mortgage held by Mr and Mrs L 
with the Society (now  part of Santander).  The policy  says this definition  applies wherever  
the word appears  in the document. And the document also refers  to the policy  as the Master  
Policy which further emphasises  the distinction  between the PPI policy and the mortgage  
agreement.
Without wishing  to repeat what I said in my provisional decision, the document  goes on to 
explain the policy would end automatically  in certain  circumstances  which  included  
repaying the mortgage Mr and Mrs L had with Santander. 
Santander also says Mr and Mrs L completed  a new direct  debit mandate for the PPI 
premiums in 2003  some  time after they repaid their mortgage. I understand it was the 
insurer that arranged  this rather than Santander.
Santander says this shows Mr and Mrs L must have known  about  the PPI and were using it 
alongside a mortgage from a different provider. This is a new argument from Santander, but 
I dont think it affects  my provisional conclusions. As I explained, I thought  it was Santanders 
responsibility to tell Mr and Mrs L the policy  automatically ended in 1998 and it didnt do that. 
Whether Mr and Mrs L knew  they had the PPI doesnt mean  it was valid and would definitely 
pay out if they made a legitimate claim.  I dont  think Santanders  error  is cancelled out by 
what Mr and Mrs L did at a later date, when they were asked to do something by the insurer.  
Overall Santanders  comments dont change my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN84257182my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and I order Santander UK plc to:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI between  closing  their
mortgage and cancelling  the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. 
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made  a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
   HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84257183Copy of provisional  decision July 2019
complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In 1992 Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered only Mr L 
for accident, sickness and unemployment  and would have provided  a monthly benefit of 
about £400.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened 
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs L during  a meeting with Santander,  when they were
applying for a mortgage. Mr and Mrs L say they were made to think  they had to have the PPI 
if they wanted the mortgage. They also say that they didnt need the PPI as Mr L had 
generous employment benefits.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs L and Santander when 
they were discussing  the mortgage and PPI. And although Ive seen some documentation  
from the time, there  isnt much evidence  to consider. That isnt surprising as the sale took
place many years ago.
I have seen Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  application.  Theres a section in it about  insurance  in 
summary this says Mr and Mrs L will have been  given details of several  types of insurance,  
including PPI. It invites Mr and Mrs L to tick a box if they want insurance arranged.  None of 
the boxes are ticked. From the little evidence Ive seen I cant  see why Mr and Mrs L would 
think they had to have the PPI.
I think, on balance,  that Mr and Mrs L probably did agree to buy the PPI, even though  they 
dont now remember it. I say that because it would be highly unlikely for Santander to simply 
add PPI to the mortgage without some authorisation from Mr and Mrs L, and there is no 
suggestion on any of the available paperwork that the PPI was compulsory.
Santander agrees  it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs L. So it had to check it was right 
for them. I am satisfied  the policy was suitable  given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances, 
because:
Ref: DRN84257184-    Mr L was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and
conditions. Mrs L wasnt employed at the time,  so wouldnt have been eligible. That does  
seem to indicate that some level of discussion took place  before the PPI was set up, and 
that it reflected  Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances.
-    Mr L says he would  have received  some  work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to 
illness or accident. But the policy would  have paid out in addition to the occupational benefits  
and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr and Mrs L 
could use their work-related benefits and savings to pay for other  expenses. That might have 
been important  as Mr L was the only wage earner and he and Mrs L were  expecting a child. 
So I think Mr and Mrs L would have had some use for the policy despite their existing 
arrangements.
-    Mr L wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions.
As he could  have benefited  from the full extent  of the cover, I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs
L needed better advice  or information about  the policys exclusions and limitations.
-    I dont know when  Mr and Mrs L were  told the cost of the policy.  But it was relatively low 
cost, and I think Mr and Mrs L were aware  they had to pay something for the policy. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  for them or that the benefit was insufficient to 
meet their total monthly mortgage repayments, nor have I seen that Mr and Mrs L
queried the payment over the years. Its possible that some  of the information Santander 
gave Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have  been.  But, on balance, I 
think they chose  to take out the policy and so appear to have wanted this type of cover.  As 
Ive already said Mr L wasnt affected  by any of the main exclusions or limitations and the 
policy seems to have been  affordable, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have made  a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall,
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Having said all of the above, Im still intending  to uphold this complaint in part. Although  I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold, I can see from the policy  terms and conditions  that it says 
cover ends automatically when, amongst other things, Mr and Mrs Ls liabilities under the 
mortgage agreement  end or were transferred to someone else. Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage 
ended in 1998. Weve checked  with Santander and it confirms that Mr and Mrs L didnt have 
a mortgage with them after this date.
I think that means Mr and Mrs L have been  paying for a policy they could never  have 
claimed on from 1998 to 2017, when it was finally cancelled. And I think, given the policy 
says it ends automatically, that Santander should  have made Mr and Mrs L aware of this. I 
say that because its Santander  that is the expert  in these matters, not Mr and Mrs L. I cant  
see it did anything to make them aware  the PPI was no longer of use to them.
I have thought about whether Mr and Mrs L should  have  checked  to see if the policy was still 
of use to them once  their mortgage  ended. But I think, even if theyd read the policy,  theyd 
probably have  thought  that, as it was supposed to end automatically, Santander would take 
care of that. So that hasnt affected my provisional decision.
Im intending  to ask Santander to put matters right by putting  Mr and Mrs L in the position 
theyd be in now if they hadnt  paid for the PPI after they closed their mortgage. Santander 
should:
Ref: DRN84257185    Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the PPI between closing their 
mortgage and cancelling  the PPI.
    Add simple interest to each  payment  from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
    If Mr and Mrs L made a successful  claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425718