K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003
alongside a mortgage. Mr E says Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Es case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
YBS had to make  Mr E aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding 
it to his mortgage. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr E applied  for his mortgage 
and PPI, but YBS has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork.
Mr E completed and signed an application  separate to his application  for the mortgage  to 
take the policy. So, I think he would have known  the PPI was separate  to his mortgage and 
that he had a choice in taking it.
Mr E has told us that YBS recommended the PPI to him. YBS has told us it didnt. I have  
looked at all the paperwork and I am unable to see that a tailored recommendation was 
made to Mr E to take the policy. So, I dont think YBS recommended the PPI to Mr E which  
means it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr E got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think Mr E chose to take out the PPI knowing the other  means he had
available to make  the repayments, which included generous sick pay and savings. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mr Es sick pay, and potentially  for longer than he 
would have received full pay. The PPI would also have protected  Mr Es savings so they 
could be used towards other essential expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Es circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont  think
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
In addition to the above  Mr E has explained  that he felt pressured into taking the policy.  
Pressure is a subjective argument and for me to uphold  this complaint for this reason I would
need to see enough evidence that Mr E was pressured  into taking the policy. Mr E has 
described some of the selling practices  he believes were in place  at the time. But each case 
we consider is looked at on its own individual merits, and I havent  seen enough  evidence  to 
be able to say Mr E was pressured into taking the policy.
Mr E also says that he wasnt made aware of other  policies and that the PPI only covered 12 
months of payments  per claim, so would not have been useful to him. I Have  explained 
above why I think  the policy would have  been  useful to Mr E and his comments do not 
Ref: DRN83379172change this. The policy would  have  provided Mr E with financial support during a potentially 
difficult time. YBS didnt  have an obligation  to look at alternative policies to that it had 
offered. As I have said above it had to make it clear that this policy  was optional and from 
the evidence provided, I think it did this.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 September  2021.
Terry Woodham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8337917