K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about the quality of a car which he obtained under a conditional  sale 
agreement with Fowlersfinance.com  Limited (Fowlers).
background
Mr J obtained a car under a conditional sale agreement with Fowlers on 21 April 2018. He 
says that the engine  management light came on shortly afterwards on 30 April, together  with 
a warning light about the diesel particulate filter. Mr J complained  to Fowlers and he wanted 
to return the car. Mr J says the electrics on the car went and he could only get in through  the 
boot. Mr J says Fowlers told him it would collect the car and he should  stop making 
payments. Mr J was also told to continue his payments under the finance agreement. 
Mr J returned the car on 5 June 2018. Fowlers did not accept rejection as the car was not 
returned within 30 days of Mr J acquiring it. It said however it would write  off the outstanding 
balance due under  the agreement in the sum of £5,450.76. Fowlers would also update Mr 
Js credit  file. 
Mr J made  four monthly payments under the agreement. He had paid a deposit of £800.  
Fowlers has refunded half of the deposit Mr J paid. Mr J was unhappy  with the way he had 
been treated.  Fowlers has not updated  his credit  file. Mr J brought  a complaint to us to 
consider. 
The investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She noted that under 
the Consumer  Rights Act (CRA), a customer has the right to reject  faulty  goods  within  30 
days (the short-term right to reject). The customer needs to do this by indicating that theyre  
rejecting the goods and treating the contract  at an end.
The investigator considered the car was faulty  and that Mr J had rejected the agreement  in 
his email on 3 May 2018. This was within 30 days of acquiring the car. Under the CRA, the 
consumer doesnt need to return the car within 30 days - but just indicate they want  to reject 
it. The investigator considered that Mr J should not receive a refund of the payments he had 
made under the agreement as he has had some use of the car. 
The investigator considered Mr J should be put in the position he would have been if the 
contract had not been entered into. Fowlers should end the finance agreement and update Mr 
Js credit file to show it as settled. Any adverse information should be removed. Fowlers 
should ensure the full deposit should be refunded together with interest from the date of 
payment to the date of refund. Mr J should also by paid £100 for stress and inconvenience. 
Fowlers did not respond to the investigators recommendations. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81384482In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance  and standards,  codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The conditional  sale agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Fowlers is responsible for a complaint about 
the cars  quality when  it provided finance to Mr J so he could acquire it.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of goods is satisfactory.  As such,  in order to uphold this complaint I would have 
to be persuaded  that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has 
taken place. Satisfactory  quality takes  into account the age and mileage  of the car. 
It does not appear  to be in dispute  that a problem arose with the car very soon  after Mr J 
acquired it, and the fault meant  the car was of unsatisfactory  quality when it was supplied to 
him. Mr J complained to Fowlers. Mr J felt he did not receive a satisfactory response so he 
emailed Fowlers on 3 May 2018.  Mr J made it clear in the email that he wanted to end the 
finance agreement. I consider Mr J exercised his right to reject the faulty car within  30 days  
of acquiring it in line with his rights under the CRA. I note Mr J returned the car on 6 June 
2018.
I agree  with the redress recommended  by the investigator. Mr J had some  use of the car so 
it would  not be fair for him to receive a refund of the payments  he made while  he had the 
car. It does not appear that Mr J made any payments under the agreement  after he returned 
the car. If he did, Fowlers should  refund these sums to Mr J. Fowlers  should end the finance 
agreement and update Mr Js credit file to show it as settled. Any adverse information should 
be removed. Fowlers should ensure the full deposit should be refunded together with interest 
from the date of payment to the date of refund. Mr J should also by paid £200 for stress and 
inconvenience.
Ref: DRN81384483my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. Fowlersfinance.com Limited should:
End the finance  agreement.
Update Mr Js credit file to show the finance  agreement as settled, and remove any 
adverse information  in relation to the agreement from Mr Js credit file.
Refund any payments  Mr J made under  the finance agreement  when he was not in 
possession of the car after he had returned it. 
Ensure the full amount of the deposit  is refunded to Mr J.
Pay interest on the outstanding deposit.
Pay 8% simple interest from the date Mr J paid the deposit until the date each refund 
is made to him
pay £200 to recognise the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mr J.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Rosemary Lloyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8138448