K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out by Mr C to 
protect a credit  card in 1996.  Mr C says Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why. 
Lloyds dont have  any copies of the original paperwork from the sale.  This isnt surprising 
given how long the sale likely took place. Mr C has said that the sale took place in a 
meeting. 
Mr C says PPI wasnt discussed with him and so he wasnt aware hed taken  it out. Lloyds 
have given me a copy of a sample  application they say wouldve likely been  used for the 
sale. The sample  credit card application shows  Mr C wouldve had to tick a box to say he 
wanted PPI. This is also consistent with what we know  about  these  types of sales around the 
time of the sale. 
So, weighing everything up and without any evidence to the contrary,  I think  Lloyds most 
likely made it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he likely chose to take it out. 
Mr C says Lloyds didnt  recommend the PPI to him. But because theres very little 
information from the sale, Lloyds accepts it did. This is to Mr Cs benefit as Lloyds  had to 
check that the PPI was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have  had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN83811392my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8381139