K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP)  took too long to deal with the claim he made  on 
his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr F purchased an annual travel insurance  policy from AWP which provided cover from 
June 2017 to June 2018. In February  2018 Mr F was told a family member was in a critical 
condition and he needed to return home immediately. He arranged  to fly back to the UK on 
26 February 2018.
On 8 March 2018 Mr F submitted a claim to AWP for curtailment of his holiday.  In April 2018 
Mr F complained to AWP about  the delay in settling his claim. He said theyd requested  the 
same information in support of his claim numerous times. 
Mr F complained to this service in early May 2018  as his claim was still outstanding  
Since then AWP has settled Mr Fs claim. After investigating the claim AWP paid £1500  to 
Mr F which was the policy limit for curtailment claims.
AWP also replied to Mr Fs complaint  saying they accepted he hadnt received the level of 
service he had the right to expect. They apologised and offered him £100 compensation. 
Mr F is unhappy  with this offer. 
Our investigator considered the case  but although he accepted that AWP had sent multiple 
emails to Mr F requesting  information, and there had been  delays in dealing with the claim, 
he felt an apology and the £100  offered  was fair.
Mr F was unhappy with our investigators  opinion so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the circumstances that led to the claim and that unfortunately 
Mr Fs relative  died before he arrived back in the UK.
Mr Fs travel insurance policy with AWP provides cover for curtailment or cancellation  up to a 
limit of £1500. The policy  says the following:-
If you need to curtail your journey call.immediately to get our prior agreement. 
Mr F didnt  contact AWP to advise them he needed  to curtail his trip. Hes said he just didnt 
think of calling them, as his priority was to arrange a flight  home as quickly  as possible. I can 
see why Mr F took the action that he did, and I cant say if his claim would  have been  dealt  
with more quickly had he contacted AWP before he flew home.
Id expect an insurer to deal with a claim within a reasonable timeframe, without any undue  
delay. An insurer is entitled to ask for information  which is reasonably necessary before 
Ref: DRN80729322paying a claim  but Id expect it to ask for as much information as possible at the earliest 
point possible,  and to avoid any unnecessary repeated information requests.
Mr F submitted his claim to AWP on 8 March 2018  together with details  of the return flight  he 
booked to the UK. AWP replied the same  day sending  him a declaration form for signature 
and requesting his original insurance certificate,  his original trip confirmation documents, an 
outline of the circumstances  leading  to the curtailment of his trip and confirmation  of whether 
he held any travel insurance linked to his bank account.
Mr F replied on 16 March  2018 with the signed  declaration form and the information AWP 
had asked for. AWP requested further  information  from Mr F on 27 March 2018  but none  of 
this was information that had previously been requested.  Mr F replied the same  day. Then 
on 5 April 2018 AWP requested clarification  of Mr Fs itinerary,  as the documents  provided 
showed hed had a return flight booked to the UK in September 2017. Mr F again replied on 
the same  day and its clear he was frustrated and upset by the delay at this point, as he 
asked AWP to read the documentation hed provided, and he told them the delay in dealing 
with his claim was causing  him financial difficulties. But I think  it was reasonable for AWP to 
request information  about his return flight, as the date it was booked for had passed and 
Mr F was still away. 
AWP responded to Mr F on 16 April 2018 requesting  further documentation, which  they said 
was required due to the policy wording. They requested a copy  of his family members death  
certificate, confirmation of whether he had booked  an alternative flight back  to the UK when 
he hadnt used  the flight booked for September 2017, clarification of the amount paid for his 
flight home - as the invoice and receipt  showed different prices, and finally confirmation of 
whether he called AWP before making  his new arrangements. I also think it was reasonable 
for AWP  to ask for this information   although they could have asked for the death certificate 
sooner. Mr F replied  on 18 April 2018 with a copy of the death certificate and flight  booking 
details, and said hed spoken to someone in the customer  service team and provided  the 
remaining information. He also said AWP should have asked for the death certificate earlier  
if this was required. On 26 April AWP replied to Mr F advising him that his claim was being  
reviewed. The claim  was settled just under  a month  later.
While I appreciate Mr F is unhappy about the time it took AWP to settle his claim,  and the 
further information they requested, I think these  requests arose  from the information Mr F 
had provided. And while AWP  may not have requested a copy of the death certificate until 
16 April 2018 I dont  think this alone delayed payment  of the claim. 
Having said that, I do agree  it would have been better  for AWP to ask for this at an earlier  
point, as soon  as they were made  aware the claim involved  a death.
While I think there was some delay in AWP responding  to some of the correspondence 
Mr F sent,  which in turn led to a delay in requesting the further information they needed, 
once AWP had all the information his claim was settled  in around four weeks. 
But Mr Fs complaint isnt just about delay, hes also unhappy with the level of customer  
service he received from AWP throughout his claim.  Mr F has told us hes unhappy about 
the number of calls he had to make  to AWP and that he was unable  to speak to anyone  who 
could assist with his claim. Unfortunately  the calls arent available  but Ive considered what  
Mr F has said about the customer service provided,  and AWP have acknowledged  they 
didnt provide the level of customer service Mr F was entitled  to expect..
Overall, I think AWP could  have dealt with this claim more  quickly.
Ref: DRN80729323But, I think in the circumstances of the case AWPs apology and the £100 theyve offered 
him is reasonable compensation for the frustration and upset he experience, so I wont  be 
asking them to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Fs complaint 
against AWP P&C SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8072932