K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Clydesdale  Bank  Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank)  has closed his accounts 
after giving him two months  notice. Mr Ms explained he has significant health problems and 
is unhappy he wasnt given more time to open a bank account elsewhere.  
background
Mr M had two bank accounts with Yorkshire Bank. Earlier this year Yorkshire  Bank wrote to 
Mr M and gave him two months notice that it would close  his accounts on 
11 November 2018. 
Mr M contacted Yorkshire Bank and complained. Yorkshire Bank  responded on 
13 September 2018 and confirmed its decision to close Mr Ms accounts  remained the same. 
It explained that it had exercised its rights under the account terms and didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
As he remained unhappy Mr M referred  his complaint to this service and an adjudicator  
looked at what  had happened. Mr M explained hes had some  very serious  health  problems 
and was worried about the time left to arrange a new account with a different bank before his 
accounts were closed. The adjudicator asked Yorkshire Bank if it was willing to allow Mr M 
more time but it declined.  The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint as they didnt find 
Yorkshire Bank had made a mistake. 
Mr M asked  to appeal the outcome of his complaint so its been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
Since asking  to appeal his complaint Mr Ms accounts with Yorkshire Bank  have been 
closed. Yorkshire Bank has told us Mr Ms switched his banking  facilities to another provider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The account  terms are quite clear in this case. Yorkshire Banks  terms say: 
18.2 We can close your accounts by giving you two months notice. 
I understand Mr M feels hes been  punished  for making previous complaints.  But               
Yorkshire Bank is entitled to end a banking  relationship if it feels it cant  meet its customers  
needs. In this case, Yorkshire Bank hasnt given any further reasons for its decision and I 
cant force  it to tell us or Mr M more  about  why its chosen to close his accounts.  But Im 
satisfied the account terms allow Yorkshire Bank  to take this step by giving Mr M two 
months notice. 
Mr Ms said that after the business response to his complaint and the adjudicators  view he 
didnt have time to arrange new banking facilities. And he feels  the delay  broke rules set by 
the Financial Conduct Authority, the regulator.  But Yorkshire Bank has been clear  and 
consistent about its intention to close his accounts  and the date that would occur.  I think 
Yorkshire Bank gave  Mr M reasonable notice about what  was happening and theres no 
requirement on it to suspend its decision or allow  more time while  he complains. 
Ref: DRN85348262Mr Ms told us he has serious health  problems  which  impacted his ability to arrange a new 
bank account.  The adjudicator went back to Yorkshire Bank and asked if it would give Mr M 
more time but it declined.  And we cant force a business to leave an account  open when its 
decided to end the relationship. So whilst I have sympathy for Mr Ms situation, I havent 
found any evidence  of an error  by Yorkshire  Bank here. Mr M also appears to have been 
able to make  new banking arrangements before his account closure date.  Im pleased  he 
was able to arrange this in time.  
Yorkshire Bank gave  two months notice before it closed Mr Ms accounts, which  is in line 
with the terms and conditions. Like customers,  banks  can decide to end a relationship, as 
long as it gives sufficient  notice. And, in this case,  Im satisfied  Yorkshire Bank was entitled 
to take that step by giving  Mr M two months  notice.  As I havent  found Yorkshire Bank  made 
a mistake, Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve Mr Ms complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.  
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8534826