K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained First Central  Insurance  Management Limited (First Central)  mis-sold 
him a motor-insurance policy and as a result he thought he was covered  to drive a third 
partys vehicle when  he wasnt.
background
In April 2018, Mr K searched an online comparison website for motor  insurance. He chose a 
quote through First Central, an insurance broker. He says he was prompted to go to the 
brokers own website and, when  he did, an advertising  banner  led him to believe that this 
policy would provide cover to Drive Other Cars  (DOC). 
In September  2018, Mr K was stopped  by the police driving his partners vehicle and 
discovered he wasnt covered on his own policy to drive another vehicle. He says that as a 
result the car was seized and he was obliged  to walk home. He also faces prosecution  for 
driving without insurance.
Mr K says he chose this policy over cheaper alternatives,  as cover for DOC was important to 
him. He feels he was persuaded to buy the policy because he was provided  incorrect and 
misleading information. He wants compensation and an apology and he also feels the 
prosecution should be dropped. 
First Central says it never advised  Mr K he would be insured for DOC. It says the banner he 
refers to simply describes  a feature available on some of its policies  but this cover  isnt 
included as standard. It says it was clear on Mr Ks certificate of insurance that DOC wasnt 
included  and it was his responsibility  to check the wording on his certificate. 
Our investigator didnt  think First Central was responsible for Mr Ks situation. She pointed 
out that its website  makes  it clear not all policies qualify for DOC  and that theres a warning 
to customers not to assume  they are covered,  but to check  their certificate  of motor 
insurance. And she explained the reason DOC wasnt  included in his policy  was because,  
when he applied for it, he described  himself as a van driver  and this is an occupation  which 
is specifically excluded  from DOC cover  (due to the increased risks it poses). 
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator. He says he was misled into buying  the policy 
because the banner clearly said DOC was included. And he says hes not a van driver  but 
had to choose this occupation  from the available options as it was the closest one he could 
find.
my provisional  decision
In my provisional decision of 1 May 2019, I said:
Mr K said he was presented with misleading  information when he clicked  on First Centrals  
website to search for a vehicle policy. He described  the first banner displayed  on the site as 
one which  says Policy holder insured to drive other cars   and hed provided a screenshot 
which showed the banner he described.  He argued that this banner was misleading as it 
suggested to him that any First Central policy would provide  DOC cover. 
First Central had provided me with screenshots showing  Mr Ks actual online journey. It 
said the banner Mr K referred to wouldnt have been  displayed automatically  and the 
Ref: DRN85525092online journey  it provided  showed Mr K wasnt given any incorrect or misleading information  
given the occupation he selected. It therefore  believed it had done nothing wrong. 
On balance, I thought it unlikely  that First Central  had provided Mr K with misleading or 
inaccurate information at the point of sale. The documentation showing the online journey 
tended to indicate that the banner was modified  and didnt suggest DOC cover  
depending on the material facts disclosed by the applicant. And I was mindful that the 
certificate of insurance, which was the definitive legal proof of cover, neither mentioned  DOC 
nor included any statement implying that such cover  existed. As the investigator  concluded,  
the policy terms and conditions in the booklet spelled this out in detail.  
I could have given  Mr K the benefit  of the doubt and concluded that First Central should, in 
fairness, have done more  to draw this limitation to his attention   on the basis  that many  
policies do include such cover, so its absence might  be regarded  as a significant  or unusual 
restriction. But even if this had been  the case, I didnt consider it would have altered the 
outcome. 
First, in response to our investigators assessment referring to the policy documents, Mr K 
had said, amongst other things, People do not have  time these days to look at all the 
masses of terms and conditionsThe docs dont get sent to you and [sic] go to your portal, 
to which  you have  to register and then set it up then jump through  other hoops just to get it 
registered. After all of this I was distracted and never checked my final document (my 
emphasis). This implied that, even if the broker had expressly highlighted the limitation on 
cover, Mr K was unlikely  to have acted differently. He didnt appear to have given  the policy 
documents the care and attention they deserved  especially  bearing  in mind that holding  a 
valid certificate of insurance before driving  is a legal requirement under the Road Traffic Act 
1988. 
Second, even  if I had assumed  purely  for arguments sake  that First Central could have 
been clearer at the point  of sale, there  was still no evidence  that Mr Ks alleged  losses had 
been caused by such acts or omissions  rather than intervening events beyond the brokers  
control. 
The DOC cover  was designed to enable a policyholder to drive  someone elses  car with their 
permission. The cover met the minimum legal requirements, i.e. liability to third parties only  
so didnt cover any damage  to the car being driven.  But it was still subject  to terms and 
conditions. 
On the screenshot from First Centrals website which  Mr K provided, it listed the conditions 
which applied to DOC cover. It said that, amongst others, the following condition must have 
been met for this cover to apply: The other car is not owned by you and is insured by 
another insurance policy to drive on the public highway I believe these to be standard 
conditions for this type of cover. 
Mr K told us that when  he was stopped  by the police whilst driving his partners vehicle in 
September 2018, there was no insurance  cover in place for her vehicle. He said that this 
was as a result of a mistake made by her insurer, and it was the subject of a separate 
complaint which  had been submitted to us. This complaint was being looked  into by his 
partners insurance  company.  Nevertheless,  it seemed to me that this constituted an 
intervening act which broke the chain of causation between any alleged wrongdoing by First 
Central and the losses claimed for (e.g. the distress and inconvenience  of having the car 
seized, being  prosecuted,  etc). Without  evidence of loss or damage caused by the alleged 
wrongdoing, there could be no valid grounds  for complaint against the broker  because,  in 
Ref: DRN85525093law, damage is essential  in order  to sustain a claim in negligence. I was satisfied this legal  
principle was fair and reasonable.  The Financial  Ombudsman Service doesnt  award  
compensation where the proven wrongdoing isnt actually the dominant or effective cause of 
the losses in question.   
I said I believed that driving without insurance  was an offence  of strict liability. This is a type 
of offence where  the prosecution only needs  to show  that the accused performed the 
prohibited act. Its irrelevant whether the accused acted intentionally or recklessly (which are 
essential criteria for the prosecution to prove in most other  offences). 
There was no dispute that the car Mr K was driving when he was stopped by the police 
wasnt insured. And what this meant  in this case was that, whether or not Mr K had 
purchased DOC cover  on his policy, it would  have made no difference.  This was because  
the DOC cover would have been invalidated in any case, because the car he was driving  
was not insured by any third party.
So, even if First Central could have done more  when Mr K bought his policy,  there hadnt 
been any adverse  impact  on him  because, on balance, he would still have been driving his 
partners car without insurance in any event. In the circumstances, I wasnt  persuaded that 
First Central could fairly be required to compensate Mr K for what  had happened. 
So my provisional decision was that I didnt plan to uphold Mr Ks complaint and therefore, I 
didnt intend asking First Central to take any action.
the response to my provisional decision
First Central didnt have any further  comments.
In Mr Ks response he said that hed appeared at the Magistrates Court and that his case  
had been adjourned  so that my decision could be considered by the court. He added  that the 
magistrate had expressed concern about  the lack of suitable occupation options available to 
choose from on First Centrals website.
Mr K also said that the car hed been  driving  when stopped by the police was insured by his 
partner at the time. 
my findings
Ive re-considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again  my 
provisional  findings in light of Mr Ks response  to it.
Im now aware, as a result of additional  screenshots  provided by First Direct of their online 
application process that Mr K would have been presented with alternative options  to choose 
from for his occupation. He had chosen to say he was a van driver,  although he actually 
works in a supermarket. And it was this selection  that led to him being declined DOC cover. 
The screenshot provided shows that Mr K could,  for instance, have  selected  sales 
assistant as his occupation. This would have  been  a more accurate description  of his actual 
occupation, and it would  have resulted in DOC cover being  included within  his policy.  This 
additional information would not alter the outcome of my decision; however, Ive included it 
for completeness.
Ref: DRN85525094In response to Mr Ks declaration that his car was insured by his partner on the date that he 
was stopped, I asked him to provide a copy of the relevant certificate  in confirmation. Mr K 
didnt do so within the deadline given.  The rules  we follow (DISP Rules  3.5.9 and 3.5.15) 
allow us to reach a decision  on the basis of the information  thats  been  supplied and to take 
account of the failure by a party to provide  information requested. And they also permit us to 
proceed with consideration of a complaint if a complainant  fails to comply with a time limit. 
Mr K hasnt provided me with a copy of an insurance  certificate, or any other evidence which  
shows that that the car he was driving  when he was stopped by the police was insured. I 
therefore feel its reasonable for me to proceed  on the basis  that no cover was in place.  
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. I 
therefore dont  require First Central  Insurance Management Limited  to take any action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before date.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8552509