K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs D say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage in 2002. At the same time they took out a PPI policy. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy
Even though  this was a joint mortgage, only Mrs D was covered by the policy. If she had 
made a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment, the policy  would have paid 
out the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
From the information we have been  given,  the PPI policy  was cancelled in 2007, following a 
request in writing  by Mrs D.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think  YBS made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant remember  this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the PPI application form. The PPI form is a separate  
document to the mortgage application and I can see it includes tick boxes to select the level 
of cover and the amount of benefit that is required.  On Mr and Mrs Ds form I can see that 
Mrs D has been listed as the only person to be insured by the policy.  Accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover  has been ticked and also the monthly benefit  amount has been 
completed. The form has been signed by both Mr and Mrs D which  suggests  they agreed  
with everything that had been entered. If Mr and Mrs D didnt want  to take out the PPI, they 
could have left the form blank.
Mr and Mrs D have said that they were unaware  that PPI would be attached to the 
mortgage and they would  have refused  the cover if they were asked. But as they were  
taking out a mortgage, which is a large financial commitment secured against  their home, I 
would have expected them to have  looked  through all of the documents they were  asked to 
sign. And if Mr and Mrs D didnt want  PPI, or didnt  know what this document  was for, I think 
they would  have questioned this with YBS at the time.
So based  on everything Ive seen and been told, I think YBS made  Mr and Mrs D aware  that 
the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out, knowing they could  refuse it if they 
didnt want it.
Ref: DRN86841312YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs D got the information they needed to decide  if 
it was right for them.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI for Mrs D only - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ds circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so 
it would  have been useful for her if something  went wrong. And I havent seen anything to 
show that the PPI wasnt affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said - including  what theyve said about not 
needing the policy as Mrs D would receive  sick pay from her employer and they had savings. 
Mrs D has told us she would have received at least three months full sick pay from her 
employer although  Ive noted  that when YBS contacted Mrs Ds employer at the time of the 
sale they informed  YBS that her contractual  sick pay entitlement  was only two weeks.  But, in 
any event, this policy would pay out the monthly repayments for up to a year which  would be 
in addition to, and potentially for longer than, any sick pay she may have received. And while 
I note Mr and Mrs D have more recently told us that they had savings, by having  this policy it 
would enable them  to protect these funds  or use them to cover  other  essential  living  
expenses. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8684131