K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr D and Mrs D payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr D and Mrs D disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
I think Bank of Scotland made Mr D and Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional, but that they 
still chose to take it. I can see that Mr D signed  an application form for PPI which set out how 
much it would cost and what the benefit amount would be. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr D and Mrs D, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr D and Mrs Ds particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr D and 
Mrs Ds situation at the time. Its likely  Mr D (the person covered by the PPI) was eligible for 
the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant difficulties  
and Mr D has said he wasnt entitled to employee  sick pay, whereas the PPI could have paid 
a benefit if he was off work due to sickness. And even if he had had employee sick pay, the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition, and generally  for a longer time.  It also would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time 
when Mr D and Mrs D would need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put Mr D and Mrs D 
in a more secure  position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. And Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out. So I think the PPI would  have been  potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation was suitable. It would then be up to Mr D and Mrs D to decide  whether they 
wanted to accept the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr D and Mrs D took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr D and Mrs D would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation  
changed.
Ref: DRN83598232my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8359823