K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Automobile Association Insurance  Services Limited (AAISL)
mis-sold a breakdown  membership policy to him when he bought a car insurance policy.
background
Mr G bought a car insurance policy through a broker, AAISL. It offered discounted
breakdown cover membership which Mr G took up.
When Mr G received his policy documents, he complained to AAISL. He said he felt misled
about the price  hed pay for breakdown cover and that it wasnt clear that he needed  to
become a member.
AAISL replied to Mr Gs complaint to say it had upheld it. But this wasnt correct.  It didnt
uphold his complaint. Mr G asked us to look at things for him.
Our investigator thought AAISL hadnt mis-sold  breakdown membership cover to Mr G.
Mr G didnt agree. He wanted breakdown  cover. But he said he should  have been able to
buy breakdown  cover  without having  to become a member. He believes hes been charged
an additional  amount of £60 to become a member  separate to the breakdown  cover  which
he believed  was included  in his car insurance price.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 November 2018. I didnt think Mr Gs complaint should 
be upheld, but I had additional  reasons which I wanted Mr G to have the opportunity  
comment on first.
Mr G didnt reply  to my provisional  decision.  AAISL accepted my provisional decision.
So the case has been passed back to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any new information  
or comments, my final decision  is the same as my provisional decision.
I dont think AAISL has helped by replying to Mr Gs complaint to say it upheld  it when it
hadnt. AAISL told us this was an error. Mr G says that because  AAISL told him it upheld  his
complaint, he expected  a refund of the £60 he paid for breakdown membership cover.
AAISL said if Mr G is unhappy with the letter it sent him, this is a separate complaint.
Complaint handling  isnt an activity that we can look at and so Im unable  to make  a finding
here. But if AAISL had replied to Mr G to say it didnt uphold  his complaint, I think he still
would have contacted us as he wanted AAISL to refund the £60 he paid for breakdown
membership cover to him. So I think the outcome would  have been  the same  and therefore
Mr G isnt in a worse position.
Ive looked at whether AAISL mis-sold a breakdown policy to Mr G. I dont  think  it did and Ill 
explain why.
Ref: DRN88185392AAISL has provided  screenshots of the online  journey Mr G followed when he bought his car
insurance and breakdown  policy.  Mr G says AAISLs website offered a discounted price for
breakdown cover. For ease, Ill refer to the breakdown provider  who is separate  to the
broker - as B. It read:
The breakdown cover offer is for 12 months. Its only available  to non-members who
purchase (B) car insurance online,  and you set up an annually recurring Direct Debit
for the breakdown cover.
I read this to mean  that the offer wasnt available to existing members.  Mr G interpreted  it to
mean that he didnt  need to become a member in order to benefit from the breakdown cover
offer. However, I can see that B referred to breakdown as membership cover. On the final
page of Mr Gs online journey titled Check  your details the declaration which  Mr G agreed
to reads:
As you have added  (B) Breakdown Cover it is important that you read the 
Breakdown Cover Terms and Conditions
A link was provided for Mr G to read before he went any further. This attachment is titled B
Membership Terms & Conditions  Booklet - UK Personal & Vehicle membership Breakdown
Cover Policy  and Arrangement & Administration  Contract.
So I dont  think AAISL  misled Mr G that he could benefit from the breakdown offer without
becoming a member.
From the direct  debit  pages on the online journey, I think AAISL was clear  that Mr G needed
to set up two separate payments: one for his car insurance and another  for his breakdown
membership cover. So I dont think he was misled that the breakdown cover was included  in
the car insurance  premium.
Basic breakdown cover was available for £15. But Mr Gs welcome letter shows  that he
asked for a higher level of cover  which  cost £60. This included Roadside  Assistance, Home
Start, Relay  and Stay Mobile.
The screenshot of the page  where Mr G requested  breakdown membership cover shows the
options and cost for additional cover. The price for the level of cover Mr G asked for comes 
to £60.
The full price of the level of breakdown  membership  cover Mr G bought  was £275.13  (AAISL
has mistyped this by 1p to £275.14). So the discount Mr G received was for £215.13. This is
set out in the welcome letter AAISL sent to Mr G when he bought  his policy  and breakdown
membership cover.
Mr G believes  he paid £60 to become a member  of B  separately to breakdown  cover. But I
dont think this is the case. I think he paid £60 for the level of breakdown  cover  membership
he asked for.
So I dont  think AAISL  mis-sold Mr G breakdown cover  when  he bought his car insurance
policy. The £60 he paid was the discounted  price  for the level of breakdown membership
cover he requested. It wasnt an additional and separate  cost to become a member of B.
And I dont  think AAISL misled Mr G.
Ref: DRN88185393my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8818539