K820x#14complaint
Mr B says HSBC Bank plc mis-sold  him a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1996. He paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
Unsurprisingly, because the sale took place so long ago, HSBC no longer has the relevant 
paperwork showing how Mr B took out the PPI. So I cant safely say what information  was 
given to Mr B then. But HSBCs records show that Mr B increased his PPI cover in 2003 
when he opened  his new loan account with HSBC. 
Mr B said that he was pressured into taking the PPI and that he thought  his mortgage 
application was more likely to be successful if he took the PPI. But he hasnt given me any 
detail about what  HSBC said or did to make him think this. HSBC says it wouldve made it 
clear to him the policy  was optional.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr B to be able to recall in detail exactly what HSBC  told 
him about PPI so long ago. So what Mr B says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to 
uphold his complaint about the way he says HSBC sold him PPI. Given that Mr B says 
HSBC recommended him to buy the policy, I think its equally likely that he was told he 
should consider  taking  PPI, rather than he had to have  it. So I dont have enough evidence 
to say that Mr B was pressured into taking it. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr B and it seems to have been right for him based on what  
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr B said he wouldve received 6 - 12 months  of his pay from his employer if hed been 
unable to work. He also said he had other means he couldve relied  on worth between  
6  12 months of his salary.  
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit in the event Mr B needed to make a claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. It wouldve  paid out in addition to his employee 
benefits and repeat claims were possible giving him long term cover for his mortgage.  
Ref: DRN80696262Mr Bs mortgage was a significant long term commitment, and his home wouldve  been at 
risk if the mortgage payments werent  kept up to date. So I think the policy  offered him 
protection beyond  his other means.  And given  that it was protecting  an important asset, his 
home, I think  Mr B wouldve found  this policy useful to have. 
Mr B has referred to the policy as being  one lump sum and hes said that he didnt need this 
extra financial burden. But Mr B paid for this PPI on a monthly basis, and if he had wanted to 
cancel the policy at any point, he couldve contacted HSBC to do so without losing out 
financially.
I dont know how HSBC  explained the cost of the policy to Mr B. But it seems  to have been 
affordable for him. And even if HSBC didnt give him clear enough information about the 
policys cost and benefits, given the valuable protection  it provided for his mortgage,  I think  
Mr B would still have bought the policy. 
Its possible HSBC didnt  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr B doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. So I dont  think its likely that knowing 
more about what  the policy didnt cover  wouldve put him off taking it out.
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  but these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8069626