K821x#15complaint
Miss C has complained Tesco Personal Finance PLC,  trading as Tesco  Bank, wont cancel 
transactions made on her two Tesco credit  cards which she didnt make.
background
In the middle of 2017 Miss C realised  shed been  a victim of ID fraud. Balance transfers  were  
made from some of her credit cards to her bank account. The money  was then transferred 
out of her account.  Other credit had also been applied  for. This had included a loan with 
Tesco for £20,000.
She brought  her complaint to the ombudsman service when she was unable  to resolve 
issues with Tesco. Theyd wanted  to speak  to her bank (who  Ill call B) to verify what  had 
happened but B refused  to speak to Tesco.
After investigation  by two adjudicators, we told Tesco we were  sure Miss C had been a 
victim of ID fraud. One of her two credit cards was reported to Tesco as lost in July 2017.  
After a replacement  card had been  sent,  electronic billing was set up on the account along 
with a request  to increase  the credit limit. The mobile phone  number for Miss C was also 
changed. Three balance  transfer payments were successfully made  to Miss Cs account with 
B. As B had confirmed they were satisfied Miss Cs account had been  taken over by 
someone else, we asked Tesco to sort things out. Miss C had alerted Tesco herself when 
she got application details through for the £20,000 loan. Shed told them  then this wasnt her.
Despite our adjudicator  sharing information with Tesco from other banks that Miss Cs other 
accounts (including other credit cards) had had similar things happen, we never  received 
any response from Tesco to our view.
This complaint has been passed  to an ombudsman to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our adjudicator and for the same reasons. Ive already confirmed this to Tesco 
in the hope theyd accept  what  had happened here. They didnt respond so Ill now explain 
my findings.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations;  regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Tesco acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss C, or whether it should  have  done  more than it did. I think  what  is clear  when  
Ref: DRN87771412considering this complaint is that there were periods during our investigation when despite 
attempts to get a response  from Tesco, we heard nothing. For example we tried to get 
additional evidence  from Tesco in August 2018.  We heard nothing for three months despite 
us contacting them numerous times. And then after we supplied  additional evidence to 
supplement our view in June 2019,  Tesco never  responded further to us. As mentioned 
above Ive also been in touch without any luck.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Tesco and Miss C have told us. Our adjudicator also got hold of evidence from 
Miss Cs other banks and credit card companies. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our adjudicators view of 20 May 2019.  I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
I think the following  are pertinent to this complaint:
Personal details  for Miss Cs accounts  with Tesco  were  changed  in August 2017. 
This included her mobile number  and email address. 
This meant  that Miss C no longer had the correct security information  about her 
account when  she tried to contact  Tesco  to get things put right.
The fraud involved all four of Miss Cs credit card accounts. As well as Tesco,  Miss C 
had credit card accounts with B, M and N. 
Balance transfers had been made  from all accounts: some  from two other accounts 
had credited one of Miss Cs Tesco accounts.
Payments totalling £5,470 were  paid into Miss Cs current account with B. Eight  
separate payments  also totalling  £5,470   were made out of Miss Cs account to 
unknown third parties. These were new payments set up from her account  but not by 
Miss C. These payments were all concentrated between 7 and 14 August 2017.
Tesco maintained  that until they got information from B they could do nothing  further.
B has provided limited  information  to us as well. This is partly because  they 
categorised this as a no loss case.  This essentially means there was no loss to B 
because all the money that was transferred out was the result of the money paid in 
fraudulently.
Miss C was on holiday whilst all this was taking  place.
Miss C had no history of managing her banking needs online. The fraud took place 
by someone taking over her accounts  with a number of financial institutions  and 
managing these online.
All of Miss Cs other  credit cards  accounts re-credited the money that was transferred 
out fraudulently.  There is nothing to suggest Miss C has benefitted financially from 
what happened.
Taking all the evidence into account Im satisfied Miss C didnt make  or authorise the 
transactions made from her two Tesco credit  cards.  These totalled £4,635 (including fees) 
worth of payments  out. There were also two payments into one of Miss Cs Tesco  accounts  
 payments of £2,500 and £1,600 transferred from her credit  cards with B and N.
Like our adjudicator I will be asking Tesco to treat these transactions as unauthorised. They 
will need  to rework Miss Cs credit  card accounts  as if these transfers  to and from her 
account never took place. This will, I imagine, include adjusting the interest Miss C was 
Ref: DRN87771413charged during  this period. Tesco will also need to make  sure there is no adverse impact  on 
Miss Cs credit record.
I wrote  to Tesco recently to confirm  that I felt they should also pay Miss C £400 for the 
inconvenience their delays in sorting  this out had caused. I appreciate  their reasoning  about  
needing to see evidence from B to be satisfied Miss C didnt authorise the transactions  but 
we confirmed our findings  on this complaint nine months ago. I believe theyve had plenty of 
time to sort things out.  
Miss C doesnt feel this compensation is sufficient. Shes told us this has had a massive 
impact on her. She believes its odd its taken so long to sort things as she told Tesco herself  
in August 2017 that shed  not applied for the loan. It seems Tesco  treated this as someone 
whod applied for the loan exercising their right to cancel rather than being  notified of fraud. 
Taking all this into consideration,  I think its fair and reasonable Tesco pay her £500.
Im aware that we have also taken a good  deal of time to sort out Miss Cs complaint. Im 
sorry about this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Tesco Personal Finance PLC, 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:
Rework Miss Cs credit card accounts as if the balance  transfers  made from and to 
other accounts from 7 to 14 August  2017  never took place;
Reimburse Miss C for any interest and fees related to these transactions;
Make  sure no adverse  data has been added to Miss Cs credit  record relating to 
these transactions;  and
Pay Miss C £500  for the inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8777141