K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  that was added  to his 
credit card account by Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds).
background
Mr E successfully applied  for a credit card with Lloyds  in December 1995. 
When looking at the very limited information  (I have  not been able to see any sales 
documentation or read a detailed recollection  of how the PPI was sold), I cant be sure of 
when or how PPI was sold. Lloyds  has provided  records that go back to January 2000 and 
the PPI is on the account at this stage.  So I cannot be sure how or when  the PPI was sold to 
Mr E but I do know it was sold at some  point between December 1995  (when  the card was 
sold to him) and January  2000.
The PPI that was sold to Mr E was designed to protect his monthly card repayments  if he 
wasnt working because  of accident,  sickness, unemployment or redundancy.
Mr E says Lloyds mis-sold  the policy. He says he was not aware he had the policy  and it was 
added without his consent. 
An adjudicator looked into Mr Es complaint and didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr E 
disagrees and so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint for the following reasons:
As I have already  mentioned  neither  Mr E nor Lloyds can give me much information  
about the sale. This is not surprising given  the amount of time thats  passed.  Ive 
looked at what  Mr E has said about how the policy was sold  that it was added  
without his knowledge or consent.  But it has been very difficult  for me to understand 
how this would have  happened with so little information available  about this sale. And 
in the absence of relevant documentation,  a more detailed recollection  from either  
party or further information to support what Mr E has said, I cannot  fairly conclude on 
this occasion that the policy was sold as he suggests it was. I would need to see 
more information  to support what Mr E has said to conclude otherwise. 
I cant be sure if Lloyds gave a recommendation to Mr E to have the policy  but even if 
it did recommend the PPI, I think it was suitable for him anyway. Any claim under the 
policy more likely  could be paid for up to 12 months.  Mr E would have found the 
benefit from the cover provided useful in an extended time of need (on top of his sick 
pay that he received  from his employer). Mr E also wasnt  adversely affected by any 
of the policys  main exclusions. The policy also seemed affordable for Mr E.
Ref: DRN85736452I cant see that Lloyds  explained about  the policys main terms as clearly as it 
shouldve done. But for the same reasons as the policy  was suitable, I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Es decision  to buy the policy.
It has been very difficult for me to get an understanding as to what happened during  this sale 
due to the lack of information available. That said and for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  
uphold Mr Es complaint.
my final decision
For the above reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8573645