K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs T say The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) (trading as Britannia at 
the time) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 March 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms 
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts 
complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a 
final decision. Neither Mr and Mrs T nor HSBC  sent me anything further to consider.      
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
my final decision
I think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so The Co-operative  Bank  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2019..
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2004. Mr 
and Mrs T say The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) (trading as Britannia  at the time) mis-sold  
them the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89469252Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
I currently think the policy  wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs T said that they were not told the PPI was optional.  The Co-operative has given us a 
copy of the mortgage application form. It shows that an accident,  sickness and unemployment 
(PPI) policy has been  selected. There was also an option to decline the cover on the application. 
Mr and Mrs T have  signed this application to show they consented to the information contained 
within it and they have also completed a separate PPI application to decide  the level of cover they 
require. If they didnt want the PPI they could  have  questioned this at the time. 
I have also been provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ts application for a further advance in 2008.  This 
form is similar to the mortgage application they completed in 2004. Again this asks if Mr and Mrs 
T wanted  to take PPI  I can see on this application they have decline  the cover. So if they didnt 
know the PPI was optional when they took it in 2004  I would have expected them to question this 
sooner than they did. 
So overall I think  The Co-op made  it clear  that Mr and Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant remember this
The Co-op  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information  they needed to decide if it 
was right for them.  
Its possible  the information The Co-op gave  Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like they were  affected 
by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful for them  if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means  The Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But The Co-op  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
The Co-op  got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because The Co-op didnt tell Mr and Mrs T, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, The Co-op  has paid back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T has said - including what they have said about Mrs T 
having a pre-existing  medical condition. But on the PPI application  completed in 2004 they have not 
mentioned Mrs T was suffering with any medical conditions. So our adjudicator asked Mr and Mrs T 
for more  information about this but they havent been  able to provide any clarification or further 
information so I havent been able to place  the weight on this that Mr and Mrs T may have wanted. So 
currently these points  dont change  my decision.
my provisional  decision
I currently think the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
Ref: DRN89469253But The Co-operative  Bank  Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award  any further compensation.  
Ref: DRN8946925