K821x#15complaint
Mr T says the advice given and the arrangements made by The Wealth  Partnership (TWP) 
to switch his personal  pension  funds  into a Sippcentre (AJ Bell) Self-invested Personal  
Pension (SIPP), facilitating  an unregulated  investment,  was unsuitable.
background
Mr T held two personal pensions. An Aviva  stakeholder pension plan which had a retirement 
date of 2024, when he would be 60. And a Windsor Life unitised personal pension  with a 
retirement date of 2019. He wasnt making contributions  to either  plan at the time he 
received advice to change  his pension arrangements. And neither plan had protected rights 
or guarantees associated with them.
Mr T appears to have been introduced  to TWP by [Mr M] Financial  Consultancy  Ltd which  
had been an appointed  representative of various  firms in prior years,  but at the time wasnt  
regulated. Mr M appears to have had some  background in the pensions sector.
Mr M appears to have introduced Mr T to the idea of investing  in overseas property, 
specifically the WRE (Two) Limited (WTL) proposal.  And he seems to have  conducted the 
initial fact-find about Mr Ts circumstances and objectives before passing the paperwork over 
to TWP.
TWP didnt meet with Mr T or even discuss matters with him over the phone. It relied on 
what the unregulated Mr M provided. TWP issued a suitability report on 6 September 2010. 
This noted:
At the present  time, your prime objective  is to review your existing Personal Pension 
contract with Aviva  and Windsor Life to assess whether it would be appropriate to transfer  
the benefits. In particular  you would  like to investigate  a transfer which  would provide:
-Invest in overseas property
-Greater flexibility and options
-Fund choices which  now meet your current circumstances
-Improved fund management and performance
-Consolidation of your existing pension arrangements  into a new pension
Ultimately Mr T was persuaded to switch his pension  funds into a SIPP with AJ Bell, which  
enabled him to transact with WTL.  
I can see from his SIPP account statements that £36,364 was switched from his former  
pension plans in September 2010.  Around  the same  time various charges were paid, 
including £1,200 for TWPs initial adviser fee. The investment  in WTL happened in February 
2011. Aside from various ongoing fees, I can also see Mr Ts SIPP account had been 
credited with over £7,000 investment income by April 2017.
Mr T told us that he became aware  there might be a problem when AJ Bell contacted  him in 
December 2016  to say it was valuing his investment  as worth £1. This was after several 
years of reporting its value as around  £30,000. He complained to TWP  about what  had 
happened and the serious financial loss he was facing. Mr Ts representative said that in 
giving him advice about and making arrangements for the SIPP and facilitating the 
investment in unregulated funds, TWP failed in its regulatory duties.
Ref: DRN85455802TWP says it didnt  give Mr T advice  about the investment in overseas property. It says that 
was the responsibility  of another financial adviser (Mr M). Its role had simply been to identify 
a SIPP  provider to satisfy his objectives.
The investigator upheld  Mr Ts complaint identifying failings with TWPs advice and the 
arrangements it made. TWP disagreed and so his case  has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided  a detailed response  to all the points raised by both parties. Thats 
deliberate; ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses 
and their customers. While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive 
concentrated my findings on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ts case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by TWP for Mr T. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses,  
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must  adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
In British Bankers  Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011]  EWHC  999 
(Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood  as the ever-present substrata to which the specific rules 
are added. The Principles always have to be complied  with. The Specific rules  do not 
supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them.  They are but specific  applications  of 
them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the specific rules can 
exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the 
Principles to augment specific rules.
Ref: DRN85455803And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to reach  
a view on a case without  taking the Principles into account in deciding  what  would be fair 
and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even  if no Principles had been produced by the 
FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory  duty without having regard to 
the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated 
them. They are of the essence of what is fair and reasonable, subject to the argument about 
their relationship to specific rules.
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like TWP. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ts complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
COBS 2.1.2 R states that a firm must  not, in any communication relating to designated  
investment business  seek to; (1) exclude  or restrict; or (2) rely on any exclusion or restriction 
of; any duty or liability it may have to a client under the regulatory  system.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their pension  funds,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ts best interests  to make the 
advice suitable.  And in this regard, Id expect  to see a comparison was made between  his 
former pensions and the new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Ref: DRN85455804In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. 
The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  UCIS  (unregulated collective  investment  scheme).
Even if the WTL investment wasnt technically a UCIS, it is unregulated  and shares similar 
characteristics including  the high-risk nature of the investment, it being illiquid, subject to 
counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs.  For 
example, in January 2013 it issued  an industry alert which said:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving advice to 
customers on pension transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages and 
disadvantages of investments  proposed  to be held within the new pension. In particular, we 
have seen financial advisers moving  customers  retirement  savings to [SIPPs] that invest 
wholly or primarily in high risk, often  highly illiquid  unregulated  investments
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.  The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable advice 
generally requires  consideration of the other  investments held by the customer  or, when 
advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as 
SIPPs and other  wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes..
If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the customer, the original pension  
product, including its underlying holdings, is more suitable for the customer, then the SIPP is 
not suitable. This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will 
enable investment in unregulated items you cannot separate  out the unregulated elements 
from the regulated  elements. There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and 
Conduct of Business rules.
Although  the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr T, it wasnt  new guidance; it was 
the regulator re-stating its position.
The FCA also issued an alert in August 2016  regarding the use of introducers. Again, this 
was highlighting  existing  obligations, not new requirements. It said:
Many authorised firms receive  customer introductions  from introducers.  We are very 
concerned at the increase  we have seen in cases in which the introducer  has an 
inappropriate influence  on how the authorised firm carries out its business,  in particular 
where the introducer influences the final investment choice. We also have concerns where 
the authorised  firm delegates regulated  activities, for example by outsourcing their advice 
process to unauthorised entities or to other  authorised firms that do not have  the relevant 
permissions, or are not their appointed representatives.
Ref: DRN85455805Many authorised firms we have visited do not have adequate input or control  over the 
advice they are ultimately responsible for giving to customers. This has been particularly 
evident in relation to advice on switching and transfer/conversion  of pension benefits. We 
have specific concerns where this advice involves movement of pension pots to unregulated, 
high risk, illiquid products, whether they are based in the UK or overseas.
did TWP adhere  to the regulatory  requirements placed on it?
In short,  I dont think TWP met the regulatory requirements placed  on it. Ill explain why.
There are two documents supplied by TWP relating to its transaction with Mr T that are 
important to my consideration, these are the client information form and the suitability report.
TWP had to obtain  information  from Mr T in order to understand essential facts  about him. In 
order to advise him to switch his pension funds into the SIPP  with AJ Bell and facilitate 
investment in the WTL venture, it had to believe that:
-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ts investment objectives (including 
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing  and how long he wanted to invest  for).
-Mr T was able to financially withstand  the investment risks.
-Mr T had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
TWP hasnt met these obligations.
At the time of TWPs advice Mr T was a partner in a firm of opticians earning around £46,000 
a year.  He was married but theres  no information about  whether  he had dependents. He 
was about 46 and wanted to retire when he was 60-65. He had two properties both of which 
had significant  mortgages. He had savings of £10,000 and, as previously outlined, two 
personal pensions.
Other than these details,  information about  Mr Ts income, expenditure, assets and liabilities 
is incomplete. He had no face to face meetings with TWP nor discussions over the phone. 
The fact-find and attitude to risk questionnaire  were carried out by Mr M. I find this a 
precarious position from which to proceed  to give advice about such  an important 
transaction.
I note that Mr Ts attitude to risk is assessed  as medium:  
You accept the level of risk to capital generally  associated with Western  stockmarkets.  You 
do not require  the basic level of capital  security available from with profits and fixed  interest 
type investments.
I have concerns about the risk appetite and assessment  process followed by TWP. The 
questionnaire response  concerning Mr Ts risk appetite suggested a moderate risk-taking  
outlook, arguably not too dissimilar from his then existing pension  plans. But Ive not seen 
the sort of detailed  framework of questions which I would expect to underpin this summary  
assessment.
Ref: DRN85455806Further, when I review  the suitability report issued by TWP on 6 September 2010, I dont 
think the risks of switching  Mr Ts pension  funds into a SIPP  enabling unregulated 
investments was adequately considered. The report simply  reiterates the fact-find 
assessment and says:
When making financial provision to fulfil these objectives, the degree of risk you are 
prepared to accept  for each one would be a major factor in considering the most appropriate 
choice of product.
A list of generic  risks associated with a transaction of this nature is provided towards the end 
of the report. These included that past performance  was no guarantee of future returns and 
that the price  of units and the income from them can fall as well as rise.
Given that TWP  knew  Mr T was considering  the investment in unregulated overseas 
property, Im surprised that specific warnings  around liquidity, counterparties, development 
and valuation were  not brought to his attention clearly  and up-front. 
Crucially, the sort of unregulated  investment  being considered by Mr T wasnt a match for his 
assessed appetite to risk. And yet I cant see that TWP  gave him an unequivocal warning 
about this or the implications for him.
My conclusion here is bolstered by whats recorded  about Mr Ts knowledge of financial and 
investment matters. TWPs main insight here is that:
We have established  that you have previous experience of the investment markets as you 
currently have a personal pension plan.
But we know  Mr T was contemplating an investment  in overseas property. Theres no 
indication that he was a sufficiently experienced or sophisticated investor, so Im surprised 
TWP didnt get to grips with this more effectively. Its not clear from the paperwork Ive seen 
exactly where Mr Ts funds have been  invested, and what, if anything,  he owns  as a result.
Im concerned that Mr Ts capacity for loss doesnt  appear to have been fully thought 
through. Although he had another 14 years  or so before  his planned retirement  date, he was 
being advised to switch  his entire  disclosed pension provision in the knowledge of his 
intention to invest it in a high-risk unregulated venture. Mr T was putting around two decades  
of pension contributions at risk and had only limited  savings to fall back  on.
Its also significant that Mr T ended up putting all his funds  into a single investment - that lack 
of diversification further exposed  his position  (and yet again  is at odds with regulatory  
guidance Ive set out earlier).
Taking these matters together, its arguable TWP was more concerned with facilitating  what 
Mr T wanted to do with his valuable  pension funds and less so in providing effective advice 
about what was in his interests.  But it was being paid a lot of money  to provide best advice. 
TWP hasnt done enough to satisfy me it was acting  in Mr Ts best interests.
Its clear Mr T was referred to TWP  for advice about moving his personal pension  plans to a 
SIPP so he could invest in high risk unregulated assets. TWP  knew  what  he was 
contemplating, but says it wasn't responsible for the investment  advice.
Ref: DRN85455807I disagree with the argument TWP makes here. The regulatory position is clear.  It had a duty 
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr T. And to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable.  It couldnt do this without considering the 
suitability of the investments being  proposed.
My conclusion here is supported by the alert issued by the then regulator in January  2013. 
And although the alert was issued after the advice given to Mr T, it wasnt  new guidance;  it 
was the regulator re-stating the position.
TWP couldnt ignore Mr Ts intention of investing  in overseas property. If it didnt consider 
this to be suitable in his circumstances, it shouldve said so - rather  than presuming that the 
switch was necessary  for this to happen.  It had a duty to consider the suitability of the whole 
transaction, not simply limit its advice to choosing the best SIPP provider.
Mr T was switching  his entire  disclosed pension funds to the SIPP and unregulated 
investments. Theres no duty of care exhibited here by TWP in terms of understanding  his 
capacity to withstand losses or accounting for his level of experience.
TWP couldnt seek to exclude or restrict any duty or liability it had to Mr T. It had an 
obligation to consider the suitability of the investment he was thinking about, and it couldnt  
avoid this by asking Mr T to sign terms of business  instructing it to only consider the 
pension switch in isolation, or by implying  such in documentation like the suitability report.
The suitability report TWP produced for Mr T made the following recommendation:
We discussed the various ways you could achieve  your present objective(s) as outlined  
above. I recommend  that you consider establishing  a Personal Pension Plan offered by The 
SIPP Centre.
Leaving aside that I cant see that TWP ever discussed anything with Mr T, like much  of its 
report this key section  of the report  is thin and lacking firm foundations.
TWP shouldve provided Mr T with an explicit recommendation not to proceed with the 
switch of his pensions into the AJ Bell SIPP, the purpose of which was to invest in 
unregulated funds. I say this because of what it knew  about his attitude to risk, his capacity 
for loss and his experience of high-risk investments. It failed to do this.
Instead, TWP  made arrangements for the switch of Mr Ts personal pensions  into the SIPP. 
The application has its adviser authorisation details. It enabled transmission of the 
necessary applications. In doing  so, it led AJ Bell to believe Mr T had been properly advised.
In doing all this, TWP  was aware Mr T was being exposed to significant risks in the 
investments it was facilitating.  It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr T might 
have difficulty getting access to his pension funds.  The investment was specialised,  out of 
the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was subject to valuation  uncertainty.
I think its unlikely that if TWP  had given Mr T effective advice he wouldve gone  ahead with 
the switch from his personal  pension plans to the SIPP and the unregulated investment. Its 
unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations s/he receives.
Ref: DRN85455808On the matter of the duty of care TWP owed Mr T there are other examples where  it falls 
short. For example, it notes Mr M conducted  the fact-find and assessment of his attitude to 
risk. But it wouldve been aware, or shouldve been, that Mr M wasnt regulated.
I dont think TWP took enough interest in getting to the bottom of Mr Ms role. And I cant see 
its drawn Mr Ts attention  to the significant downside  of dealing with unregulated individuals 
and businesses. In my view, this shouldve put TWP on alert that it was even more important 
that it understood his objectives  and circumstances properly. Rather, as Ive already  noted, it 
seems to have skirted around some important matters here.
Ive not seen telling evidence of Mr Ms influence over Mr T sufficient to suggest he wouldve 
held sway if TWP had advised him against  going ahead with the switch  as it shouldve. 
Unfortunately for TWP it didnt  take that course  of action. And theres no insistent  client 
process engaged  here showing Mr T wanted  to proceed irrespective of the advice it gave.
To conclude  I dont think the switch of Mr Ts personal pension  funds  into the AJ Bell SIPP 
and the investment in the unregulated WTL  venture  could sensibly be regarded  as fair to 
him. As such I think  TWP failed to meet  the regulatory requirements when providing him with 
advice and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against  TWP and for it to put things right.
putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ts case. So, he needs to be returned to the position  he wouldve been  in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
TWP responsible for.
If TWP had done everything it shouldve, I dont  think Mr T wouldve switched his personal 
pension funds into the AJ Bell SIPP, and so he wouldnt  have suffered the financial loss hes 
facing. I think its most  likely he wouldve  left his pensions where they were.
So, TWP  needs to put things right in the following way:
1. Calculate the loss Mr T has suffered as a result  of making the switch
1.1 TWP should obtain  the notional value of Mr Ts Aviva and Windsor Life plans at the 
same date of calculation, assuming he wouldve remained invested in the same funds. So, 
as if his plans  hadnt been switched to the AJ Bell SIPP.
1.2 If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation  then the FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index - prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index - should be used as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that couldve  been  achieved if Mr Ts pension had remained invested in his 
previous plans.
1.3 I cant see that Mr T made any contributions or withdrawals from his SIPP. If there  were,  
then after confirming the detailed position, the value TWP obtains, or the calculations  TWP  
makes should assume these adjustments would still have occurred and on the same  dates.
Ref: DRN854558091.4 The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional  value  of Mr Ts 
former personal pension  plans and the current value of his SIPP including  any investments 
and cash held (see step 2), will be his basic financial  loss that TWP needs  to redress.
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
2.1 To close  Mr Ts SIPP  and avoid  ongoing fees,  the investments  need to be crystallised.  
To do this TWP  should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount its willing  to accept  
as a commercial value for the investments and TWP can then pay this to take ownership of 
them.
2.2 If TWP  is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investments,  the value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where TWP  has 
compensated Mr T fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the 
amount he may receive from the investment  and any eventual sums he would be able to 
access from the SIPP. TWP will need  to meet any costs in drawing  up this undertaking.
3.Pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP so that the transfer value is increased by the loss 
calculated (resulting  from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted 
for tax 
3.1 If compensation is paid into Mr Ts SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension  schemes.
3.2 If paying compensation into Mr Ts SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and / or the plan is closed and TWP takes  on his investments, then it should pay 
him compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should make a notional deduction to allow 
for income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
3.3 The notional  allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ts actual or expected  marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr T is likely  to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Mr T wouldve been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should  
be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
3.4 TWP should also pay interest on the loss calculated from the date Mr T accepts my 
decision until it settles at 8% simple. Income tax may be due on this interest. If TWP  deducts 
tax it should provide Mr T with a tax certificate.
3.5 TWP should also provide  details of its calculations to Mr T in a clear  format.
4.SIPP fees
4.1 If the investments arent removed from Mr Ts SIPP, and it remains  open  after 
compensation has been paid, TWP  should  pay him an amount equivalent to five years  of 
future fees.  This should  allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be dealt 
with, and for them to be removed  from the SIPP.
Ref: DRN8545580104.2 If, after five years,  TWP wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking 
for any future payments under the investment, it must agree  to pay any further future  SIPP 
fees. If TWP fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mr T should  then have the option of trying  to cancel 
the investments  to allow the plan to be closed.
5.Trouble and upset
5.1 I also think Mr T has been caused distress and inconvenience by whats happened, and 
so in recognition  of this TWP should pay him £200.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ts complaint. I require The Wealth  
Partnership to pay the redress  Ive detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8545580