K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Miss Y complain that Landmark  Mortgages Limited  continue  to send a field agent 
to visit them,  despite their request for these visits to stop. It is also adding  fees for this which  
is making their financial situation  worse.
 
background
Mr H and Miss Y say that Landmark Mortgages Limited send a field agent to visit each time 
they are in arrears  with their mortgage repayments. They have  not received any benefit from 
the visits but are being charged  £54 each time.  This is unfairly increasing their debt. They  
have asked for the visits to cease and the fees to be refunded.
The adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the fees had been 
correctly applied to the account in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr H and Miss Y didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Miss Y accept that they have  been in arrears with their mortgage  over a period of 
time. They say that they have tried to keep up with repayments as much as possible and 
have kept Landmark Mortgages up to date with what has been  happening. Despite this, 
Landmark Mortgages sends a field agent  to their home to discuss  the arrears. They  find this 
intimidating. They have  asked Landmark Mortgages to stop doing this because they dont 
derive any benefit from the visits and so they feel the fees are unfair  and unnecessary.
Landmark Mortgages has said that its policy is to ask a field agent  to visit a customer if the 
mortgage account is in arrears  and it hasnt been  able to agree a suitable payment 
arrangement. Before arranging such a visit it sends  two letters clearly explaining the purpose  
of the visit. If a customer meets the field agent, discusses their financial situation  and 
completes an income and expenditure review to agree a way forward then Landmark 
Mortgages doesnt make any charge for the service.  It only charges if a customer refuses to 
meet with the agent.
Whilst I do not doubt that visit from field agents is unwelcome and distressing for Mr H and 
Miss Y, Im satisfied  that Landmark  Mortgages sent them letters to explain its intention  to 
send a field agent to review  the situation.  I consider  that when  Mr H and Miss Y received the 
letters they could  have telephoned  Landmark  Mortgages to discuss  their financial situation 
and make a payment arrangement if they didnt want an agent to visit. 
I see that Mr H and Miss Y did this in December 2016. They agreed a repayment  plan early  
in the month  but a field agent  visited two days after the arrangement had been made. Mr H 
and Miss Y showed  the field agent  that they had already made an arrangement and no fee 
was charged for this visit.
I consider that Landmark Mortgages  is entitled  to make enquiries  about Mr H and Miss Ys 
financial situation if their mortgage is in arrears  by more than two months.  This may mean  
that it asks its field agent to visit if it hasnt been  able to contact  them to agree a mutually 
Ref: DRN80123952acceptable agreement  to clear the arrears and payments are not received on or by the dates 
agreed in the plan.  Im also satisfied that Landmark  Mortgages has applied  the charges 
correctly and in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of the account so I wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable for me to require it to refund these.
If Mr H and Miss Y are experiencing financial difficulties I would urge them to contact 
Landmark Mortgages to discuss their situation and agree a way forward  to bring  the account 
up to date. This would  avoid the need  for a field agent to visit them. I would also remind  
Landmark Mortgages that it has an on-going duty to treat someone in financial difficulty 
fairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss Y 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8012395