K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that National Westminster Bank Plc gave her bad advice about  a loan.
background
Miss W said that she had a loan with NatWest, taken out jointly  with her ex-partner. Miss W 
and her ex-partner  had reached a legally  binding separation agreement.  That committed  
Miss W to continue  to pay most  of the monthly repayment on the joint loan, but her partner 
had agreed to contribute £100 a month  until the loan was paid off. 
Miss W said that she found out that she wasnt able to get a mortgage  for a new home,  
because of the amount she was paying  on the loan. So she said that an advisor  at NatWest 
persuaded her to take out a new loan in her own name, which  she used to pay off the joint 
loan. That meant  that the repayments were  lower. 
Miss W said that this was very bad advice. Her former partner found out that the old joint 
loan had been repaid,  and was very upset that changes  to a loan in both their names had 
been made without  any discussion. And Miss W said that it turned out that she still couldnt 
get a new mortgage anyway, because  she simply couldnt afford it. 
Miss W said she had trusted NatWests advisor, and she felt shed been played off against 
her former partner. She wanted  the interest rate on her new loan reduced, and some of the 
capital repaid by NatWest. 
NatWest initially said that it hadnt  been  able to find out if the advice Miss W had been given 
was appropriate  or valid.  So it said that it would uphold this part of Miss Ws complaint. But it 
said she still had to pay the loan back. 
When NatWest wrote  to our service,  it said it hadnt been possible to speak to the staff 
member who processed the loan sooner.  But NatWest said it had now done that, and 
provided a witness  statement from her. On the basis of this, it didnt think this loan had been 
mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She noted  that Miss W and NatWests versions 
of events differed,  so she said shed reached her view on the balance of probabilities. She 
said that NatWest could accept repayment  from either of the two names on the previous 
loan. And Miss W knew when she took out the new loan that she was repaying the old one. 
Our adjudicator said she wasnt  aware of any reason or circumstances why NatWest  
shouldnt have offered this loan. And Miss W had a 14 day cooling off period,  so she had 
time to reconsider. 
Our adjudicator said that she was satisfied that NatWest completed the necessary checks  
before this loan was made. And NatWest has also considered Miss Ws mortgage 
application since then.  Although Miss W no longer  wants to go ahead  with that application, 
NatWest said it would lend to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think NatWest did anything wrong when it approved the new loan.
Miss W just didnt  think that was fair. She said she wasnt surprised NatWest had just denied  
everything about the conversation shed  had with the advisor  about  the loan. 
Ref: DRN80472652She wanted her case to be considered  by an ombudsman,  so it came to me for a final 
decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-I knew that the version  of events that had been presented  in this case  by NatWest was 
somewhat different  to that which  had been presented by Miss W and supported by her 
former partner. I also needed  to bear in mind  that the person who made this loan to 
Miss W had left NatWest, so it wasnt possible to seek further witness evidence  from her.
-So I had to decide, on the balance  of probabilities, what was most likely to have 
happened in this case. 
-I had seen a brief witness statement from the NatWest staff member  who gave Miss W 
the loan. That statement  sets out that this person told Miss W that even though she had 
split up from her former partner, they were still financially  connected through  the joint 
loan account.  So if one of them defaulted  on any borrowing it would affect them both.  
This person  said that she definitely  didnt advise Miss W that she shouldnt tell her former 
partner that the loan had been  paid off, so that Miss Ws former partner would carry on 
paying towards the loan. This statement also sets out that Miss W borrowed more than 
the amount outstanding on the old loan, because she wanted some extra money  for 
household items. 
-The NatWest staff member also says in her witness statement that she remembers 
Miss Ws former partner ringing her afterwards to say she could no longer see the loan 
on online  banking. And that she told Miss Ws former partner that the loan had been 
refinanced and not to worry about it, but she should  discuss  this herself with Miss W. 
-There are points  in this brief statement which did cause me some concern. This person 
apparently had a very clear recollection  of what she did and didnt say during her 
meeting with Miss W to take out this loan, but didnt  recall  that the extra funds  which 
Miss W wanted  were actually to pay off the balance  of a credit card account she held at 
NatWest, not to buy household items.  I wasnt sure that someone would remember  so 
clearly what they said at the time,  but not remember the purpose of part of the loan. I 
thought that meant  I couldnt  simply accept  what was set out in the statement from 
NatWest.
-This person used  the first names  of Miss W and her former  partner  throughout her 
statement. And she said that when Miss Ws former partner couldnt see the loan on 
online banking, ...she rang me That all suggested to me that this person knew Miss 
W and her former  partner reasonably well, and could be expected, as Miss W and her 
former partner have both said she was, to be aware of the settlement agreement 
between them.
-I thought that was important, because that settlement agreement brought  Miss W a 
payment of £100 per month towards  the old, joint loan. Once that joint loan had been 
paid off, she stopped getting  that money. That was why I thought that Miss W might 
actually be worse  off from having  paid off the old loan and taken this new loan. 
Ref: DRN80472653-I also noted that, although  the person who wrote the witness statement said that she 
didnt give Miss W advice,  she did seem  to have provided advice  about  the financial  link 
between Miss W and her former partner. But there wasnt anything to suggest that it was 
also made clear to Miss W that full settlement of a jointly held loan would  be easily 
discovered by her former partner. The loan was visible  on Miss Ws partners online 
banking, and when  it was paid off, it no longer showed up there.
-I wasnt clear  that it was more likely that Miss W was encouraged to take this loan out to 
the extent that shed  suggested. But I did think that it was more likely than not that the 
person who was talking to her had a reasonably detailed understanding  of Miss Ws 
personal circumstances, including her settlement with her former partner. I didnt think 
that person necessarily  had a particular responsibility to give Miss W advice which dealt 
with that issue. But she did seem to have given  Miss W some advice. And that advice 
seems to have pointed towards  repaying the joint loan with a new loan, solely in 
Miss Ws name. 
-I thought that if Miss W was given that advice,  then she should also have been given 
other advice, which would balance it out. In particular, I thought it shouldve been  made  
clear to her that her former  partner  would be able to tell that the loan had been  repaid. 
And I didnt think it was likely, from the evidence Id seen, that she was told that. Had she 
been, I thought  she may have made a different decision.
-I didnt think it was likely that the decision Miss W made over this loan was taken  only 
because of advice  that Miss W was given by NatWest, or because she wasnt given 
other advice that balanced it out. But I did think it was likely that what  she was told did 
influence her decision. And for that reason, I thought that NatWest should  pay Miss W 
£500 in compensation. I thought that was the right amount to make up for the part that 
NatWest played  in influencing a decision which  Id explained I thought probably left 
Miss W worse off.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides accepted  my decision  without further  comment.
my findings
Even though  neither side has offered anything further, Ive still reconsidered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I havent  changed my mind.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must  pay Miss W £500 in 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8047265