K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited  failed to act when he told them  
hed received notice of forthcoming court proceedings. These proceedings related to a claim  
MCE were dealing with under  his motorcycle insurance policy. 
background
Mr W contacted  MCE in December 2018   a year after he was involved in an incident with a 
third party  to complain about  the lack of updates  and progress made  under his claim. 
MCE replied on 19 December 2018 to say that it was dealing with Mr Ws claim correctly and 
in line with the policy. Mr W replied  on the same  day to complain. He didnt  agree  that there 
was no update to give him. He said hed received a letter  from a Court notifying him of an 
upcoming hearing in January 2019. He asked MCE if it was dealing with the defence of the 
claim.
In January 2019 MCE didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint.  MCE said as liability  was in dispute, 
the claim would  take longer to settle.  It didnt address  Mr Ws concerns about an upcoming 
court hearing. But it reassured Mr W that it was dealing with his claim and would let him 
know when it was settled.
In February 2019  Mr W told MCE hed received a Judgment against him in his absence  for 
third party claim  costs  of £8,163.50 to be paid on or before 21 February  2019.
Mr Ws parents  on his behalf complained to MCE.
MCE said it paid the costs in full on 21 February 2019. In June  2019  MCE told Mr W it was 
still investigating his concerns and was looking to have the Judgment  removed from Mr Ws 
record. For the distress and inconvenience caused, MCE said it would  pay Mr W £350. If 
Mr W provided evidence of financial  difficulty as a result of the Judgment  made against him; 
MCE said it would consider the compensation award further. 
In June 2019 Mr W asked  us to look at his complaint. He was concerned about the impact of 
the Judgment being recorded  against him and of the open claim.  Mr W said his insurance 
premium had gone up at renewal, hed bought his first car and the choice of insurers 
available to him was reduced and the price was higher due to the open claim.
Mr W said he lived with his elderly  grandparents  who hed had to tell about  the Judgment.  
He said he was anxious about  the possibility of bailiffs arriving at his grandparents home. 
Mr W said he intended to apply for a mortgage and was concerned about how his credit 
rating might be affected.
In the meantime MCE provided Mr W with a letter  confirming the background to the 
Judgment for Mr W to provide to any third party when applying for credit in future.
Our investigator asked  MCE  to provide an opinion from its legal advisors  as to the prospect 
of success for Mr Ws claim  if MCE had defended  the claim in Court. 
MCE said as there  were no independent witnesses and the damage to both vehicles 
supported both versions of events, it believed it would have made  a 50% 50% liability offer to 
settle the claim. But it said it couldnt know how the claim would have been settled in Court.
Ref: DRN85827162Our investigator thought MCE should  increase the compensation it offered to Mr W by a 
further £150 to £500  for the distress and inconvenience it had caused him by failing to act in 
time before the Hearing  and subsequent  Judgment. 
MCE accepted  it didnt properly handle matters.  However, it had asked Mr W to provide 
evidence of financial loss, but he hadnt  provided any. So MCE said its compensation offer of 
£350 was reasonable.
Mr W reiterated that he found MCEs communication with him about the claim and Judgment 
to be very poor. He doesnt believe the claim should  have gone  on for as long as it did  and 
it therefore took an unreasonably  long time before  he no longer had to declare an open claim 
when applying for insurance.  
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information provided by MCE is very limited in terms  of evidence of its communication  
with the third party representative in relation to the claim  and the Judgment.  What  isnt in 
dispute is that MCE failed to properly handle matters and didnt act when in December 2018  
Mr W alerted them  to a court hearing  date in January 2019.
Mr W provided a chronology which lists the calls he and his father  made and copies of 
emails which  he and his father sent to MCE throughout February 2019. Its clear  that Mr W 
was very upset and concerned about having  a Judgment  recorded  against him for a 
substantial amount of money. I dont think MCE gave Mr W any confidence  that it was 
correctly dealing with the Judgment which I think was a very understandable request  
particularly as MCE had reassured Mr W in January 2019 that it was properly dealing  with 
the claim.
Mr W contacted  us in June 2019 after receiving  an offer of £350 compensation from MCE. 
MCE also provided Mr W with a letter  from it explaining the background to the Judgment  that 
he could provide to third parties if needed.  And its explained that as it paid the Judgment  in 
full within  28 days,  it should not have been  registered against Mr W.
I can see that in September 2019 Mr W told MCE that he carried out a credit  check  which 
appeared clear.  I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr W has been adversely 
affected financially  by the Judgment.
As the investigator  explained, the outcome of the court  hearing  isnt something we can look 
to overturn. In any event, we dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. 
We can look at whether an insurer has reached its decision reasonably and in line with the 
policy. MCE has a term Ive seen  in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This term 
allows MCE to take over the conduct and defence of a claim and settle it as it sees fit. We 
dont disagree  with this term in principle provided  an insurer shows its treated its customer  
fairly when  applying it.
Ref: DRN85827163MCE  at our request   sought legal  opinion as to the chances of success  if it had acted  
properly. MCEs legal  advisor said that it would  most  likely have advised to make an offer to 
the third party  representative  to settle  the claim on a 50%50%  split liability  basis. But theres 
no way of knowing whether this offer would  have been accepted  and no way of knowing  
the outcome if the claim had been  defended  in court.
I think the way MCE handled  the Judgment was very poor and it failed to act at what was
a significant key stage of the claim. And its clear  from Mr Ws testimony and his 
communication with MCE that the worry and upset caused by receiving the Judgment Order 
was also significant.  
So I think a fair and reasonable level of compensation  for Mr W is £500. This is in line with 
similar awards which we make  and examples are available on our website.
I understand Mr W is unhappy that he paid a higher premium as a result of the claim being 
open. Its standard in the insurance industry  to treat an open claim as a fault  claim until 
settled. The terms non fault and fault are used by the industry  to record claims on internal 
and external databases to show whether the costs of the claim were either recoverable or 
not from the third party. So these terms dont  necessarily  mean  the consumer was at fault for 
the incident. 
But this means that  as Mr Ws claim was settled as a partial fault claim (it would  be 
recorded as a fault claim even if it was settled on a 50% fault basis)  the recording of the 
claim by insurers  would be no different to when it was an open claim. So I cant say that the 
length of time MCE took to settle  the claim has made a difference to the premium  Mr W has 
had to pay for future insurance. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance  Company Limited 
to pay Mr W £500 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
MCE Insurance Company Limited  must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If MCE Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8582716