K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained because  AA Underwriting Insurance  Company Limited  refused to pay his 
insurance claim for storm damage under his home  insurance policy.
background
On 20 September  2018, Mr H contacted  AAs claims department. He said that because  of a 
storm, there had been damage to part of his homes  roughcast  a type of coarse  plaster for 
outside walls. 
AA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The surveyors report said that: 
Strong winds would  not blow off roughcast from a wall. Poor  bonding between  scratch coat 
and top coat. This is a gradually operating  cause. 
The General  Exceptions  on Mr Hs policy  said that: 
The policy does not insure the following:
...
11. Loss or damage  arising from gradually  operating causes including deterioration,  wear  
and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes.
So AA refused Mr Hs insurance claim. In its response to Mr Hs complaint, AA said that 
based on the surveyors assessment of the damage, and the policy terms, Mr Hs policy 
didnt provide cover.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  He said that it had been the storm 
which had caused  the roughcast to break  up, as his home was the first property in his estate 
and it was more  exposed to severe wind and rain. Mr H explained that the roughcast had 
been in place for 13 years and had been  intact  before  the storm.
Mr H wanted AA to cover  the storm damage, less his policy  excess. He also wanted 
compensation for the surveyor arriving at mid-day instead of mid-morning, which had meant  
Mr H had had to take the afternoon off work  as well as the morning. And he said hed 
booked the repair for 8 October but this had to be delayed because  AA didnt write allowing 
him to start work until several days later. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  She pointed  out that AA had given Mr H the 
opportunity to instruct his own expert to provide an alternative report. Mr H had done this  
but this still said basically the same  as AAs surveyor. Mr Hs experts report said: 
Full gable end was found to be BOSS  none of the existing render was fixed [to] the base 
of the house. All of the area fell off when a hammer  test was carried out. Given the age of 
the house I would expect  the roughcast would have lasted  longer before becoming boss, 
even with weather  bashing  to have the whole gable effected [sic] indicates their [sic] has 
been an issue or error when initially done.  My understanding is that BOSS  means  hollow. 
Effectively the render  had become detached from the brickwork or stone behind it, creating  a 
hollow.
So the investigator didnt think AA had acted unreasonably in declining  Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied. He wasnt happy with AAs decision to decline his claim. 
Ref: DRN80076842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AAs decline of Mr Hs claim
As Ive set out above, Mr Hs insurance policy didnt  cover  gradually operating  causes, 
including deterioration,  wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes. The surveyors 
report said that the problem hadnt  been caused by storm  damage,  but by a gradually  
operating cause. So Mr Hs claim fell into the reasons  specifically excluded  on his policy.
I note that Mr Hs own expert effectively said the same thing  that the damage hadnt been 
caused by storm  damage. Mr Hs expert  said that even  with weather bashing, hed have 
expected it to last longer, so he thought it hadnt been done  correctly in the first place. 
It doesnt make any difference whether the roughcast fell off because it was gradual  wear 
and tear, as AAs surveyor  said, or whether it had been poor workmanship originally, as Mr 
Hs expert said. Either way, it wasnt storm damage. And anything more  gradual was 
specifically excluded from Mr Hs policy. So I dont consider AA was wrong  to refuse  to pay 
Mr Hs insurance  claim.
The surveyors late arrival and brief appointment
I understand how frustrating it would have been  for Mr H that the AAs surveyor  didnt  turn up 
mid-morning on the day of the inspection, as had been agreed.  Instead, it was midday  when 
the surveyor arrived. So it seems  that the delay was for a couple of hours.  But we wouldnt 
necessarily expect a business  to pay compensation  for this level of inconvenience and 
upset.  
I also recognise that Mr H also felt that the surveyor hadnt been thorough because the 
appointment only took 20 minutes. But the conclusion was more or less the same  as Mr Hs 
own expert  so I cant say that the length  of time affected the outcome. And this did mean  
that Mr H was free before 12.30pm.   
I realise Mr H was frustrated and disappointed with the surveyors  visit, but for these reasons 
I dont consider AA has to do anything more on this point. 
Customer service  
On his complaint  form to us, Mr H complained  that he couldnt start the repair work on 
Monday 8 October as planned.  He said this was because the AA didnt write  allowing him to 
start work while the dispute was ongoing, which hed expected on Friday 5 October. Mr H 
said he chased this and was promised a call back on 9 October, which  didnt happen until 10 
October. And he didnt get the report about  this until 11 October.
I can see that Mr H complained to AA about these customer service  issues.  And I 
understand that hed have wanted to get on with the repairs. But Ive looked at the 
timescales overall and I dont think theyre  unreasonable:
-Mr H rang to make a claim on 20 September;
-the surveyor went out on 25 September; 
Ref: DRN80076843-AA received the surveyors  report on 27 September  for review; 
-AA emailed Mr H declining  his claim on 2 October;
-Mr H rang to complain on 4 October;
-AA rang Mr H on 11 October and issued  the Final Response  on 12 October. 
I appreciate that Mr H is frustrated by the outcome. But the evidence  doesnt show that the 
AA delayed unduly in how it handled  Mr Hs claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8007684