K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Miss Ms credit card account when she applied for the card in one of the banks branches.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Miss M disagreed 
saying, in summary, that she wouldnt have agreed to take the PPI because she was young  
and didnt have  any dependents  or any other financial responsibilities, such  as a mortgage, 
to worry about.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint because:
 The credit card application form included a separate section headed, Optional 
features. This included equally clear options to accept  or decline the PPI. The Yes  
box was ticked,  showing that Miss M wanted  to take it. In all likelihood,  the member of 
staff would have filled in the application  form for Miss M. As part of this process the 
member of staff would have needed  Miss Ms agreement  to the PPI insurance so that 
the box could be ticked.  Miss M would then have had time to read through the form, 
before signing  to agree  that the details were correct. So, overall, I think Lloyds made 
Miss M aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  although I can 
understand why she can no longer remember this.
 Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Miss M, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Miss M cant  remember  
whether she would have received any sick pay from her employer. From what she has 
told us, I think  Its unlikely she wouldve been covered for a prolonged illness.  The PPI 
wouldve met her repayments for up to 12 months, so couldve been  a useful benefit if 
she couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. It also covered her if shed  become  
unemployed.
 Ive taken into account that Miss M may have  had a small amount of savings, and that 
she didnt have a lot of other financial commitments.  But her credit file wouldve been  
affected if she couldnt meet the credit  card repayments and she wouldve had peace 
of mind knowing that her payments would be met if she couldnt work.
Ref: DRN87731182 Its possible  the information Lloyds gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have  been.  But Miss M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have 
wanted this type of cover. She was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations  
and the policy  was competitively  priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think it unlikely 
Miss M would have  made a different decision if better  information  had been  provided. 
On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8773118