K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund transactions  he didnt authorise.
background
In 2013 Mr S opened a business current account  with Barclays.  A cheque for nearly 
£169,000 was deposited within a couple  of weeks. This was money Mr S had received from 
an inheritance. His intention was to use this for a house deposit. Hed been given advice by 
a mortgage broker  who hed been led to believe  was affiliated with Barclays.
The proposed house purchase  didnt proceed as Mr S had hoped.  There was difficulty in 
getting a mortgage but he continued to deal with the same  mortgage broker  (who  Ill call 
Mrs M). In early 2015 Mr S got a letter from the police who were investigating fraud 
allegations against Mrs M. In a search of her home,  the police had found banking  details   
including correspondence, bank cards and other detail  in Mr Ss name.
Mr S discovered from July to November  2013 Mrs M had gradually withdrawn £166,617.40 
from his Barclays account. The money  had either been withdrawn by debit card from cash 
machines or by online banking transfers to Mrs Ms own account. It appeared from police 
and subsequent bankruptcy proceedings on behalf  of Mrs M that she admitted stealing  
Mr Ss money, along with other supposed  mortgage clients.
Claims for repayment of the money were made  direct to Mrs M. Evidence  showed a small 
amount had been repaid  to the account  up to mid-2014  but no further payments were 
received. Mrs Ms solicitors confirmed repayment of the outstanding nearly £167,000 would 
be made by end-2015. This didnt take place despite  negotiations between the legal firms  
involved.
As Mr S wasnt able to recoup his lost funds from Mrs M, his solicitors  asked  Barclays  to 
refund him. Barclays firstly needed  authority to deal with Mr Ss legal representatives. Then  
in 2019 Barclays  apologised for not treating this as a fraud claim. They needed  to speak to 
Mr S and this hadnt occurred. They  paid £450 into his business account ending  in 8329 in 
compensation. Mr S brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. Some of this was limited because  of the time that 
had passed. For example,  Barclays had nothing to show where cards,  the PINsentry device 
or online banking  passwords  had been sent in 2013.  These had enabled Mrs M to use 
Mr Ss account. They believed Mr S must have given these to Mrs M. Barclays was able to 
confirm that Mrs M (under both her married and unmarried names)  had never been 
employed by them  so they had no responsibility as her employer.
Our investigator believed  it was most  likely Mr S had provided all the mechanisms needed to 
access his account  to Mrs M. He therefore  wouldnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S didnt agree with this outcome. Mr S has asked an ombudsman  to consider his 
complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 8 March  2021.  I didnt believe the evidence showed  
Mr S either authorised the disputed transactions or had acted with gross negligence or 
intent. I told both parties I was going  to ask Barclays to pay the full amount I was able to 
under our rules.
Ref: DRN84773542Mr S accepted the outcome.  No response was received from Barclays.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion I did in my provisional  decision. As I 
received no dissenting comments, my findings follow  to explain why Ive reached the 
decision I have.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Clearly in this complaint,  I have had to make  decisions on balance  as some detailed  
information is missing. Its not unusual in cases like this that banks havent retained all the 
records that could  have helped in determining the facts. There  is no requirement  on banks to 
retain all account records  for an unlimited  time period  so I cant  fault Barclays on this aspect.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) are the relevant law here. These  came  into 
effect in November 2009. These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances can apply. But when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
One of the additional  things we consider is whether the customer, Mr S in this case, has 
acted with gross negligence as that would mean no refund may be given  even though Mr S 
hadnt authorised  the individual transactions.
Im not going  to cover all the points raised in detail. The view of 21 July 2020 explains  the 
regulations which guide how we review  these cases,  as well as covering all the transactions  
involved in this complaint. Our investigators  subsequent  emails  with Mr S also touch on 
questions Mr S raised after seeing  the initial view.
No discourtesy is intended by me not covering all issues. Instead,  Ive focussed on what I 
think are the key matters  here and which impact the decision  Im making. This simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
There are two main aspects to this complaint. Did Mr S authorise Mrs M to use his business 
account? If not did he act in a grossly negligent  manner  by allowing her access  to the 
account herself?
Ive covered both issues in coming to my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN84773543were the payments authorised by Mr S?
Firstly Im surprised Barclays disputes whether Mr S authorised Mrs M to use his account  
and spend £167,000 which hed intended  for a house purchase. I cant see any logic in him 
doing this. But I am aware that this case is not straightforward and the evidence  on occasion 
contradicts itself.
Mr S set up this account on Mrs Ms advice in June 2013. No party has suggested Mr S 
wasnt present when this was done  in branch. One thing  I feel is worth querying  is why the 
account was set up as a business account? So far Ive not been able to get a satisfactory  
answer. Mr S wasnt operating as a business  as far as I can tell. Barclays  account opening 
information doesnt help on this issue. This does suggest there may have been some  
discussion in branch at the role being played  by Mrs M.
Im satisfied Mr S was present at the time the account was opened.  I think its more than 
likely the correct address  was taken for the accounts.
From recent discussions with his solicitor,  I believe Mr S was surprised to find out that two 
business current accounts were opened at the same  time. Both accounts  came with a 
matching savings account. Im not sure why this was but may well have been a specific  
pricing offer on these  types of accounts. I can see letters from Barclays in September 2014 
talk about free banking coming  to an end. 
Im surprised Mr S finds this unusual. Im pretty sure Mr S would have had to sign the 
relevant account  opening  documentation. I think hed have found it odd if that hadnt been 
the case.
Mr S is adamant that he never received  paper bank statements from the start of the account  
opening. I agree with Barclays that its odd Mr S never wanted to see any firm confirmation 
where his money  was. But I accept he  to all intents and purposes  believed  his money 
was safe and remained in his account so didnt feel any need  to check.
However there was a substantial time lag between  June  2013 and Mr S being notified by the 
police that something  was up in January 2015.  It seems throughout this period Mrs M may 
well have been stringing Mr S along  and delaying him from buying a house as she knew  at 
that stage her misuse  of his funds would be noticed.
Im satisfied by Barclays evidence they have no knowledge of Mrs M (under any related 
name) ever working for them. But taking  into account the police investigation into Mrs Ms 
activities (including being charged  with fraud),  I think its most likely Mrs M had conned 
clients  and not just Mr S  out of their money.
The trail of correspondence between the police, Mr S, his solicitors and Mrs Ms solicitors  
evidence the difficulties here.
Mr Ss solicitors  have confirmed: 
When [Mr S] attended  the branch in January 2015,  he was informed that a telephone 
number of 07XXX  XXX120 was registered  against  the bank accounts.  This was not a 
telephone number that [Mr S] had provided  at account opening stage nor a telephone 
number that he recognised.  Further,  the bank subsequently informed [Mr S] that the email  
Ref: DRN84773544address registered  against the bank  account  was: rxxxxsxxxxxx@yahoo.com. This is not 
(and never has been) [Mr Ss] email  address. [Mr S] did not give Barclays  Bank this email  
address. Again, it is assumed  that [Mrs M] did so. These facts are also recorded in the 
Witness Statement filed , by [Mr S] in April 2016:
I can see no reason why these changes would  have occurred to Mr Ss account  which  all 
parties accept took place   with his authority. So taking into account  what we know  about 
Mrs Ms activities, I think its likely she made  these  changes to the account. This also 
suggests to me there is a clear possibility she could have arranged  for bank security 
information to be shared  with her.
In February 2015,  Mr S made  it clear  to Mrs Ms solicitors:
All the funds  have been removed, without our permission from this account and as a 
consequence we now have to delay moving on with our lives.  We have been patient and 
cooperative but still we are still none  the wiser as to why funds were removed without 
permission.
In March 2015, Mrs Ms solicitors stated:
We note that your client accepts that he instructed ours to act in relation to a property 
purchase, and made a transfer in our clients favour of £167,000.  Our client  has, of course, 
acknowledged receipt. Our client is prepared, in principle, to provide security for the 
outstanding monies.  However, we are now instructed that our client will make  repayment on 
or before 30 April 2015
By this stage Mrs M wasnt  able to make any payments to Mr S as her assets were 
considered to be subject to the Proceeds  of Crime Act. Her solicitors  did confirm  Mr S 
should be assured that our client  remains committed to satisfying any liability  due.
I note her solicitors state made a transfer in our clients favour  but I dont believe this is 
what happened. The money  was in Mr Ss named account and accessed by Mrs M without 
his authority.
Ive also looked  at the nature of the withdrawals Mrs M made.  There  were cash withdrawals 
and reasonably low-value online banking transfers  to her own account. This suggests firstly 
Mrs M wasnt taking  out large  sums which may have alerted Barclays to what was going on. 
But that also she knew she had a few months  in which to take money  out of the account 
without alerting Mr S either. I can also see Mrs M repaid a small amount of money to Mr S. I 
dont anticipate shed  have done  that if Mr S had authorised  these transactions. 
I believe this evidence  shows  Mr S didnt authorise  Mrs M to use the money in his account.  
did Mr S act with gross  negligence or intent?
I have gone on to consider gross negligence and intent. These are two separate  issues.
Barclays might be able,  in some cases,  to hold a consumer liable for transactions  they didnt 
make or authorise  if theyve failed with gross  negligence to comply with their obligations 
(generally under  the terms and conditions  of the account)  as a payment service user, and 
that has allowed  the disputed transactions to take place.
Ref: DRN84773545Banks, like Barclays  will be aware  that the Financial  Conduct Authority guidance on gross 
negligence states:
we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  than the standard  negligence under 
common law. The customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
The test I use in this circumstance is what would a reasonable person do? Do I believe its 
likely a reasonable person would have acted significantly carelessly with their account 
security details that would  allow a third party to access their account?  Ive seen nothing here 
why that should be the case.
A business might be able,  in some cases,  to hold a consumer liable for transactions they 
didnt make or authorise  if theyve failed with intent  to comply with their obligations as a 
payment service user, and that has allowed the disputed transactions to take place. Intent is 
not defined in the PSRs. So we apply the natural  meaning  of intent  that being; something 
you want and plan to do, a deliberate act.
When reviewing whether Mr S failed  to comply with his obligations  with  intent , I have 
considered whether he deliberately failed  to comply with his obligation to take all reasonable 
steps to keep his card and PIN, or other security credentials, safe? I cant  see why this 
would be likely.
Finally, for Barclays to claim  as I believe they have here  that Mr S has failed with intent 
or gross negligence to comply with their obligations,  the business  must provide supporting 
evidence. In this case the FCA guidance states:
The burden of proof lies with the payment service provider and if a claim that a transaction  
is unauthorised  is rejected, the rejection must be supported by sufficient evidence to prove 
that the customer is guilty of fraud, gross negligence or intentional breach and the reason  for 
the rejection must be explained  to the customer.
I cant see this has happened here.  Nor has Barclays provided evidence  to our service  
despite me prompting them on this expectation. So, for example, they cannot  show where 
Mr Ss security  credentials were  sent.
Overall based on the evidence  I dont believe Mr S authorised the transactions.  Nor do I 
think he acted with gross negligence or intent. I will be asking Barclays to repay  the money 
for the disputed transactions.
redress
Our service can only make awards  up to a specific financial limit. Based on the time period 
Mr S referred his complaint to us  May 2019   and when the money from his account  was 
used in an unauthorised manner  2013;  the limit that applies here is £160,000.  I am aware  
that the value  of the money Mr S disputes is £167,617.40. Therefore its worth  clarifying  what  
this means.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £160,000, plus any interest  that I consider appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £160,000,  I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN84773546This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Barclays  doesnt have to do 
what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for 
the balance. 
I gave Barclays an opportunity to confirm  whether  they would repay Mr S in full but received 
no response. 
Im aware that Mr S has run up legal costs  in trying to recoup his money from Mrs M. 
However he always had the chance  to pursue a complaint against Barclays.  As our 
investigator confirmed  early on, we dont generally  award legal costs  unless there  are 
specific reasons to do so. Theres  no requirement to appoint  legal representation when 
pursuing a complaint through our service. I believe Mr S has accepted this position.
my final decision
Final decision  and award: I am upholding this complaint. I think  that fair compensation is 
£166,617.40 plus 8% simple interest  a year. My final decision is that Barclays  Bank UK PLC:
should pay Mr S £160,000; and
add 8% simple interest a year on £166,617.40 from the dates the money debited  
Mr Ss account until the date of settlement.
Recommendation: I think fair compensation is more  than £160,000, so I recommend that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC pays Mr S the balance.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8477354