K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr C says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Barclays had to make Mr C aware  the PPI was optional and gain his consent  before adding 
it to his card. Mr C has told us he was led to believe the PPI was mandatory. I cant be 
certain what was said at the time Mr C applied for his card and PPI, but Barclays  has 
provided a copy of the available  paperwork. The application form Mr C signed was 
completed with his information  and choice to take PPI before  it was printed. I think its likely  
the form was completed during a conversation Mr C had with a Barclays representative 
before it was printed and signed.  The application also had an option to decline the policy.  As 
the option to take the PPI was selected and the form was signed by Mr C I think its more 
likely Barclays made it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr C has told us he was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay that would then have reduced, and 
could have relied on his wife for help if he was unable to make  his repayments. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to Mr Cs sick pay, and for longer than he would have 
received full pay. And while Mr Cs wife would have  wanted  to help, her ability to would have 
been dependent on her circumstances  at the time,  which  could have changed. So I dont 
think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Cs circumstances  at the time,  he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
So I think it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN84244742To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said including that the rules say we should presume 
Mr C wouldnt  have taken PPI if he was given more information. But I still think  he wouldve 
bought the policy if he had been  given clearer information. So these comments dont change 
my conclusion. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8424474