K820x#14complaint
Miss L1 and Miss L2, in partnership as B, complain about HSBC  UK Bank  Plcs  (HSBC) 
payments systems.
background
B is a business, with an account with HSBC.  On 9 February 2018, B instructed HSBC to 
send three  large  payments from its account.  These  payments  were  sent from Bs account 
that day, but one didnt reach the recipients account  until 12 February  2018.
B complained, saying  having to keep  an eye on the delayed payment over the three days 
interfered with its business, and that HSBC was misleading about the service it provided for 
supposedly same-day  payments. 
HSBC replied to the complaint, apologising for the delay in the particular payment being  
received (noting it was received at the recipient  bank on 12 February   10 and 11 February  
being the weekend). But it explained  that didnt  uphold  the complaint as it had followed the 
correct process and hadnt made  a mistake. The delay must have been  after the money had 
left HSBC, either through an intermediary or the receiving bank.
B didnt  accept this. It didnt think HSBCs  service  was what it should be, and that B was due 
compensation. So the complaint was brought to this service. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and received further information  from both parties.  He 
concluded that while HSBC might have  provided some confusing  and incorrect information 
to B after the event  of 9 February 2018,  in the course of the complaint, these didnt affect the 
payments made that day, and that it hadnt made  a mistake  with these. So he explained he 
couldnt uphold  the complaint.
B strongly  disagreed, and sought to add a new complaint ground  about  HSBCs ability  to 
track and trace  payments  it sends from its customers accounts. Our Investigator  explained 
that we couldnt include that ground  in the current complaint, and that HSBC didnt give 
consent for us to do so. He advised  B that a new complaint could  be raised.
As B didnt agree, the complaints come to me for a final response.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this isnt a complaint I can 
uphold. This is on the basis  that I havent  seen  any evidence to convince me that HSBC 
made a mistake in processing Bs payments  on 9 February 2018. And if I cant  find evidence 
of a mistake, or poor treatment, then it follows that I cant ask for compensation to be paid.
I appreciate this decision will come  as a disappointment to B, and I hope  I can explain why I 
think its fair.
Im conscious that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties,  and in my 
own words. Im not going to respond  to each individual point made by all the parties  
Ref: DRN80814662involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this, and Ive thought about everything  thats  been  
submitted. Instead,  Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow  me to do 
this. And this reflects the informal nature  of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Its because  
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome.
The evidence Ive seen  shows that payments were instructed by B, in branch, on 9 February 
2018, and that within  an hour the respective funds had left Bs account. So my finding  is that 
in this respect HSBC  did what it was asked to do, and no mistake was made.
Im also satisfied the fact that a payment didnt reach its intended source until 12 February  
2018 wasnt HSBCs responsibility. 
Ive seen that some of the things HSBCs said and written to B has confused matters. But  
while thats unfortunate, it doesnt change the material facts  that on 9 February 2018 HSBC 
did what B asked it to do, and did so properly.
It follows that I cant uphold the complaint, and I wont  be awarding any compensation.
Insofar as the complaint ground that B sought  to add late  regarding  HSBCs ability to track 
and trace payments  is concerned, theres not enough evidence to satisfy  me that this 
ground was included at the start of the process such that it should  be covered in this 
decision. Im not convinced HSBCs  had the opportunity to investigate this, and therefore 
should be able to do so now. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L1 and Miss 
L2, in partnership as B, to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8081466