K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  Plc wont refund payments he says he didnt make  or 
authorise and that its closed his account.  
background
Mr Ss bank  statements  show  that online payments to a betting firm (which Ill call G) totalling 
over £18,000 were made between May and September 2016. In the period  from May 2016 
to June 2017 G made payments to Mr Ss account  totalling over £13,000. A further payment 
of £50 was made to G in June 2018. 
Mr S says that, whilst  he had an account with G, this was blocked  in 2015 or 2016,  so he 
cant have been  responsible for payments after that. He disputes too that he received  the 
credits that appear on his account statements. 
TSB didnt  accept what Mr S said. Its terms say that any dispute  of this nature should  be 
raised within 13 months, but only the June 2018  payment was raised within  that timescale. In 
respect of that payment,  the bank was satisfied  that Mr S had made it. TSB later took the 
view that its relationship with Mr S had broken down and it closed his account in 
February 2019, having told him in November  2018  that it would do so. TSB wrote off the 
balance of Mr Ss overdraft. 
Mr S thought  this wasnt fair and referred the case to this service, where one of our 
investigators considered  it. He was satisfied however that Mr S had authorised the 
payments; he said too that TSB hadnt treated Mr S unfairly when  it closed his account. Mr S 
didnt accept the investigators findings and asked that an ombudsman review  the case.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however come to the same  overall  
outcome as the investigator did. 
Ill deal first of all with the account closure.  We wont generally intervene where a bank 
decides to close  an account, especially where  theres a legitimate reason for doing so and 
proper notice is given.  In this case TSB said its relationship with Mr S had broken down; I 
find that explanation quite  plausible.  I note as well that TSB gave Mr S nearly  three months 
notice that it would close the account  more than the 60 days Id usually expect. Im 
satisfied therefore  that theres no reason for me to intervene here. 
I turn then to the payments to, and from, G. TSBs terms say that any dispute of this nature 
should be raised within 13 months. That reflects relevant  regulations and the arrangements 
that payment  services  providers (which includes TSB and Gs bankers) have amongst 
themselves. It doesnt mean, however, that this service  cannot look at such disputes. It does 
mean, however,  that the evidence about older  payments may be incomplete.  There  is 
therefore more  information about the payment made in 2018 than about those made in 2016.  
G has confirmed that Mr S was a client. Its also said that payments to the account were  
verified  meaning  the customer was asked for additional security information. G didnt feel 
that Mr Ss account had been compromised. Its own investigations  indicated  that access to 
the account had been from an IP address that Mr S had used.
Ref: DRN89140832It appears that Mr S has been a regular user of gambling websites. His bank  account  
statements indicate that his use of other sites stopped when the use of Gs site began; and 
when he started using other sites again,  Gs site was no longer used. That suggests to me a 
link between  the two. 
Shortly before the use of Gs website began, Mr S received a significant loan payment to his 
account. It was for nearly as much  as the payments to G. And over the following  year more 
than £18,000  was paid to G from Mr Ss account,  and more  than £13,000 returned  to it. Mr S 
didnt however suggest until more  than two years  after the loan payment that he hadnt 
authorised the account activity. It is in my view extremely unlikely that he wasnt aware of it; 
the fact that he didnt  raise it until much later indicates that he authorised it. 
I note as well Mr S only raised this complaint when he was contacted  by a collection agency. 
The investigator thought this was unusual. I believe however that its quite likely that it was 
that contact that prompted Mr S to complain  not only about the 2018 payment but also about  
those going back  two years. 
For these reasons I think it more likely than not that Mr S did in fact authorise  the activity  on 
his TSB and that it wouldnt therefore  be fair to require the bank to make  any refunds. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  Plc to take any further  steps to resolve 
Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8914083