K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Legal & General Insurance  Limited (L&G) has handled a 
buildings insurance  claim.  Mrs W had a representative in the claim and with this complaint, 
but Ill mainly refer to Mrs W for ease.  
background
An escape  of water in April 2017  caused  damage to Mrs Ws property. Alternative  
accommodation was arranged, and the property had to be dried out. It became apparent that 
there was a mice infestation that had to be dealt  with by Mrs W before repairs  could take 
place. Further arrangements were necessary for alternative accommodation. But L&G said 
Mrs W (or her rep) didnt  attend viewings, refused a like for like house and so L&G offered a 
cash amount for 6 months  accommodation  at that time.
Mrs W didnt confirm she had dealt with the infestation until October 2017 and L&G went on 
to issue the drying  certificate shortly after, paid in part the contents  side of the claim and 
offered £100 for some delays.
Issues arose because  a commercial business was registered at Mrs Ws address and the 
policy was a residential one only. Mrs W (through  her rep) didnt take sufficient active  steps 
to progress the claim (not replying to emails, uncontactable  on phone) and L&G later settled 
the contents side of the claim in full. The remaining issues were  with the buildings  side of the 
claim. L&G made interim payments relating  to work  done by Mrs Ws appointed electrician 
and assessed  the repairs its contractor carried out. There were some  quality issues and L&G 
offered to have its contractor remedy the issues or pay a cash  amount to Mrs W. 
One of our investigators  looked at the issues and was satisfied L&G had fairly resolved the 
contents side of the claim and that appeared to have  been accepted as so by Mrs W. And 
she also explained that what L&G had offered on the buildings side of the claim was fair too, 
in line with the policy. The investigator  explained there were points where L&Gs  service  
wasnt fair or reasonable,  particularly  with some poor repairs  that had to be revisited and 
caused some delays. But she also said Mrs Ws representative had contributed to delays 
and it wouldnt be fair to hold these against L&G and noted  L&G continued to pay for 
alternative accommodation. 
L&G had offered more compensation while weve been investigating the complaint totalling 
£500, which the investigator thought  reflected L&Gs poor service. She concluded that it was 
for Mrs W to choose whether to allow L&Gs contractors complete  the works or accept the 
cash amount offered  instead. 
Mrs Ws representative didnt agree with the investigator and wanted  a further review of the 
complaint. In summary the issues raised  concerned electrical and gas certificates, 
warranties for the appliances and boiler and new locks and keys.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86200272The basic  principle underlying the policy is that L&G will repair, replace  or cash  settle 
damage as a result of an insured event. L&G is not required  to put Mrs W in a better  position 
than she was before the insured event.
I bear in mind a general duty on L&G to handle claims  promptly and fairly. On the face of it 
Mrs Ws claim remains unresolved after almost  three years and I can understand Mrs Ws 
frustration. However, in order to facilitate  a timely  claim  handling process a policyholder has 
to be engaged and involved with the process and communicate with an insurer.  Mrs W had a 
representative deal with the claim on her behalf but its apparent  that he wasnt  efficiently 
engaged with the claim process. 
Ive seen that the representative wasnt responsive  to L&Gs  contact, including  through its 
agents, was out of the country at times and simply didnt meaningfully engage. Long periods 
of non-contact meant L&G couldnt  progress things  as it had wanted  to. That said,  L&G paid 
for periods of alternative accommodation when it strictly didnt have to because  there were 
issues not covered  by the policy. Here Im thinking  about the mice  infestation  that took 
Mrs W around three months to resolve so that insured works could take place. 
Overall, I dont  hold L&G entirely responsible for not meaningfully progressing  the claim. 
Mrs Ws representative wasnt contactable  at times  and didnt engage  with L&G and its 
agents in a reasonable way. There were  problems with the standard  of some of the repairs 
carried out by L&G and this inevitably means completion has been delayed.  Again, the 
representative hasnt  always been  an active participant in the process and this has meant 
issues cant be resolved.  Compensation offered of £500 is a fair reflection of the impact on 
Mrs Ws inconvenience of L&Gs failures with the repairs and thats  what  L&G should pay 
her.
There is a recent schedule of works drawn  up and made available  to Mrs W which details 
the remaining  works, including locks and keys. It has been communicated both by L&G and 
the investigator that Mrs W needs to decide how to progress;  either  with the works  by L&Gs 
contractor or a cash settlement (£12,300 + VAT). Im satisfied both ways offer a reasonable 
way forward and so Mrs W must let L&G know what she wants  to do next.
Issues such as appliance  and boiler warranties are not L&Gs responsibility as it is the 
manufacturer that warrants  the relevant guarantees around the appliances that have been 
supplied. L&G would  of course need to provide Mrs W with evidence  of the date of supply 
and installation. And as Mrs Ws appointed  electrician carried out electrical works she 
should, as pointed out by the investigator, ask them  to provide any related certificate. 
Ref: DRN86200273my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Legal  & General Insurance Limited and determine a fair and 
reasonable resolution in all the circumstances is as follows;
Pay Mrs W £500 compensation1 in total (less any amount already paid)
Do one of the following (Mrs W to confirm  to L&G which option);
oCarry out the remaining repair works  as per the schedule of works  issued on 
15 August 2019, or
oPay Mrs W £12,300 and,
oPay Mrs W VAT on receipt of invoices from Mrs W for insured repairs  
detailing the VAT she has paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
1 L&G must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs W accepts my final decision. 
If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Ref: DRN8620027