K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold them a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Where, as in this case, the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive  I need  to decide what  
I thinks most likely  to have happened, based on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Lloyds no longer  has copies of any of the paperwork Mr and Mrs G signed  when they 
took out the mortgage and PPI. I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable,  given that 
the mortgage account was closed more  than 17 years ago. But I can't fairly rely purely on 
what Mr and Mrs G might be able to remember  about the sale after such  a long time.
In order to uphold the complaint, I'd need  to conclude that it's more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs G werent  given a clear choice  about whether to take the PPI, or that it was 
added to their mortgage account without  their consent. Im not satisfied that I can safely  
reach this conclusion, based on the limited information I have.
In the absence  of any records from the time the PPI was sold,  Lloyds has assumed that 
the policy covered both Mr and Mrs G. The mortgage was a serious long-term  financial 
commitment, and Mr and Mrs Gs home  would  have been at risk if the mortgage  
payments werent kept up to date. PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring that 
their monthly repayments were  protected even if Mr or Mrs G was unable to work, due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So, I can see why they might  have felt PPI was 
useful cover.  
I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs G have a detailed recollection of the sale, so many  
years later. And on balance, I think its most likely  that they decided to protect  their home  
by taking  out PPI, and that it was added  to the mortgage at their request.
Lloyds  has no record  of how the policy was sold. Mr and Mrs G say they took it out in a 
meeting, and that Lloyds  recommended the PPI to them.  For the purposes of this 
decision Ive assumed  thats what  happened.  This means  that Lloyds had a responsibility 
to check that the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.
Ref: DRN80949562Mr and Mrs G have  told us that Mr G was self-employed  when the policy  was sold.  Some 
PPI policies weve seen include  provisions that make it more difficult  for a self-employed  
person to claim. But Im satisfied that this one didnt. As a self-employed person, Mr G 
wouldnt have  been entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy pay. And although hes told us 
he had a life insurance policy, thats  a different type of cover, and wouldnt have covered 
Mr and Mrs Gs monthly mortgage payments if Mr G was unable  to work.
Mrs Gs told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay from her employer  for six 
months. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any payments that Mrs G 
received from her employer, and potentially for longer than shed have been entitled to 
full pay for. So I think the policy provided  useful cover for Mr and Mrs G.
It may be that Lloyds could have explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But 
from what we know of the cost of mortgage  PPI policies sold by Lloyds at the time, the 
policy would have been  competitively priced,  and Ive seen nothing to suggest  that 
Mr and Mrs G couldnt  afford it. So even if Lloyds had provided  better  information about  
the cost of the policy, I think  Mr and Mrs G would  still have bought it.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover (for example, 
unusual employment  arrangements,  or existing medical conditions). And Ive borne in 
mind that Mrs Gs mentioned that she suffered from a long-term medical  condition  when 
the policy was sold. But shes  told us the condition was controlled by medication, and 
didnt affect her daily life. So I dont think that the fact that she might not have been able 
to claim for that condition  meant that the policy was unsuitable for her. And based on 
what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have  
been affected by any of the policies other main exclusions.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Gs comments, including  what theyve said about  
having felt pressured into taking the policy. But while I accept that Lloyds may have 
recommended the PPI to them, pressure is another matter, and I cant  fairly conclude that 
pressure was put on Mr and Mrs G to take the PPI, based purely on their recollection of a 
conversation that took place more than 20 years ago 
Mr and Mrs G have also commented that Lloyds didnt tell them  that they could buy PPI 
elsewhere to cover  the mortgage. But Lloyds wasnt obliged to tell them about products that 
may have  been  available from other providers. So these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8094956