K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA)  
handled a claim  under their home insurance  policy following an escape of water.
background
Mr and Mrs W had an escape of water  in their en-suite bathroom. They made  a claim under 
their policy which RSA accepted.
To access the leak, RSAs contractor  needed to remove the bath and, in so doing, they 
damaged several  wall tiles. Because replacement  tiles were no longer available, the 
bathroom had to be completely re-tiled. This,  in turn, meant  all appliances  and furniture had 
to be removed and subsequently reinstated. The repair  work  began in May 2018  and it was 
anticipated that it would be completed within two weeks.
In the event, delays  occurred.  Mr and Mrs W were also unhappy about the quality of the 
work and about  damage caused by the contractor. In July 2018, with the work still not 
completed to a satisfactory  standard, Mr and Mrs W complained  to RSA. They asked that 
the contractor be replaced  because they had no faith in them.
In August  2018,  RSA issued a final response letter to this complaint. It acknowledged  that 
the contractor had failed to carry out satisfactory repairs. It said it had arranged  for another 
contractor to re-do some of the repairs. It said it had also arranged for its restoration 
company (which Ill call M) to repair damaged  items, and for its carpet  specialist (which  Ill 
call R) to clean  the carpets.  It offered £150  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience which had been caused.
The second  contractor began re-doing some of the repair work. However, Mr and Mrs W 
became unhappy  with the quality of this work  also. In August 2018, they made  a second 
complaint to RSA.
In October  2018, RSA issued a final response  letter to the second  complaint. It 
acknowledged that there had been ongoing  problems  with some of the repair work. It noted 
that this was apparently due to an issue with the border tiles rather than the quality of 
workmanship. As a result,  it noted  it had been  agreed to remove the border tiles altogether,  
and to replace  all the tiles which had been  above  this border. This would be done  when 
Mr and Mrs W returned from holiday in mid-November. It offered a further  £325  in 
compensation for any inconvenience.
Following their return from holiday, Mr and Mrs W experienced  further  problems with the 
second contractor.  They again complained to RSA. They said the contractor had failed to 
turn up as expected on numerous occasions; had failed to order  tiles as requested  and had 
then lied about  this to cover  up its failure; had carried out poor quality work; and had caused 
damage. As a result, they had been  deprived  of the use of the en-suite for an unreasonably 
long period of time and had been  put to unnecessary distress  and inconvenience.
In February 2019,  RSA issued a final response  letter  to the third complaint. It acknowledged 
that Mr and Mrs W had suffered very poor service.  It understood that, as the completion  of 
the work  was now imminent,  M would be attending  their property to carry out repairs to the 
damaged items. It understood  that a couple of items couldnt be repaired and Mr and Mrs W 
had declined  its offer to replace these  so it instead invited them  to accept  a cash  settlement. 
Ref: DRN81526652It said that once M had carried  out its repairs, the second contractor  would complete the 
outstanding tasks from its schedule of works and R would arrange  for a new carpet  to be 
selected, ordered and fitted. It offered further compensation of £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with RSAs responses to their complaints. They  referred the 
dispute to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He agreed that the 
service provided by RSA and its contractors had been very poor. However, he was satisfied 
that the total compensation which had been paid to Mr and Mrs W of £1,975 was fair. He 
also noted that after issuing the third final response letter,  RSA had agreed to a cash 
settlement of £900 for remaining snagging  issues even though it could have resolved these 
at a cost to itself of only £350.     
Mr and Mrs W didnt  accept the investigators  findings. They  said the £900 cash payment 
shouldnt be taken into account because it was made after the third final response letter had 
been issued and furthermore was offered to cover the cost of outstanding repair  work rather  
than as compensation. They furthermore  felt it was unfair for the investigator to consider all 
of their complaints  together rather than to consider each one, and its associated 
compensation, in turn. They provided  a detailed breakdown of the events which occurred,  
and the effect  these  events had on them, within the timeframe of each complaint.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Let me first of all deal with the issue  of the £900 cash  settlement. This was agreed between  
the parties after the third final response letter had been  issued. As such,  I am prepared  to 
exclude it from my consideration of the complaint. While the investigator mentioned it, Im 
satisfied that he didnt rely on it to reach  his recommendation as he made clear that he 
considered the overall compensation paid by RSA of £1,975 was sufficient in itself.
With regard to Mr and Mrs Ws request that I consider each of their complaints  individually,  
I should explain that it is up to this organisation to decide on its investigative  process. We 
may choose to combine complaints if we think it is appropriate. In a case such as this, where 
Mr and Mrs W have  made  a succession of complaints  all relating to the same claim, and all 
three final response letters have been issued before we have begun  a meaningful 
investigation, I consider  it is reasonable to combine  the complaints in a single investigation 
and to issue a single  decision dealing with all the matters. I dont consider it is necessary or 
an efficient use of my time to split my decision into separate time periods and provide a 
breakdown of what I consider to be an appropriate  level of compensation for each period. Im 
therefore going to consider the events, and the compensation, overall. Im satisfied that this 
is not treating  Mr and Mrs W unfairly.
There is no dispute that RSA has provided a very poor service.  A claim which  began  in May 
2018 and which was expected to be concluded  within two weeks was still not fully resolved 
by February 2019.  There have been periods amounting to approximately  two months where  
Ref: DRN81526653the repairs were put on hold while  Mr and Mrs W were on holiday but overall  the work has 
clearly taken an unacceptable length  of time.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W have found the whole experience  very stressful. The repair  
work has frequently been sub-standard, meaning  it has needed to be re-done. Although  not 
deprived of the use of their en-suite bathroom throughout the entire  period, they have been 
unable to use it for significant  lengths of time. They have had to share their home with 
workmen for far longer than should have been  necessary.  They have often had to wait in for 
tradesmen to visit, only to find out that no-one  has turned up. They also were given false 
information by the second contractor to cover  up its failure to order  tiles in advance and 
I think that this would have been  very irritating to them. It is clear  from the tone and content 
of the emails which Mr and Mrs W sent to RSA and its contractors during the claim that the 
events were affecting them significantly.
I therefore agree that Mr and Mrs W are entitled  to compensation. However,  after taking 
everything into account, Im satisfied  that the compensation amounting to £1,975 which  has 
been offered by RSA is fair. It is in line with what I would have likely awarded if RSA hadnt 
made such an offer. I therefore consider that RSA doesnt need to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 June  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8152665