K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that a car she has been financing though an agreement with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) is not of satisfactory quality and shed like to be 
allowed to reject it.
background
Mrs D took receipt of a new car in June 2018. She financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with VWFS. But a month  later a manufacturing fault was identified. If all three  
rear seat belts  were fastened the middle one would pop up. 
Mrs D was told not to use the middle  rear seat until a repair  could be completed. She says 
she therefore stopped using the car but wasnt given a hire car until October  despite  
continuing to pay instalments.  The work was completed in November 2018  but Mrs D says 
she should have  been allowed to reject  the car and VWFS should  refund the payments she 
was making whilst she wasnt  using  it.
VWFS waived  one monthly  finance  instalment of £250.65 in recognition of the inconvenience 
that had been caused to Mrs D in not being  able to use one of her seats. But Mrs D didnt 
think VWFS had gone far enough and she referred  her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator noted that the relevant legislation provided VWFS with an opportunity to 
repair any fault that was present at the point of supply and she thought  it was therefore fair 
to allow  VWFS to do so. She noted that theyd kept Mrs D mobile with a courtesy car when 
her car was being  repaired and she thought that theyd been reasonable when refunding one 
monthly instalment  in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience this had caused her. 
But Mrs D disagreed and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs D so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs D acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS are responsible. The relevant law also says 
Ref: DRN86208562the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable  person  would  
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  the price  and all the 
other relevant circumstances.  
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mrs D. I note that 
this was a new car when  supplied.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask VWFS to put this right.  
Its clear there was a fault with this car and that the fault was present at the point of supply 
as the manufacturer has accepted that. But the relevant legislation  allows a business one 
opportunity to repair the car and regardless,  I think it would be a disproportionate action to 
expect VWFS to allow Mrs D to reject the car and terminate  her finance agreement  on the 
basis that one of five seats was not working  but the problem could be resolved.
The repair appears  to have been successful  so the question that remains is how VWFS 
compensate Mrs D for the inconvenience  shes experienced. The seat couldnt  be used until 
the repair was completed  in November, four months  later. VWFS have explained  that the car 
was still working but that 20% of the seats were not usable. So they said that theyd usually 
reimburse 20% of the payments and here theyve refunded a little more.  
That seems  a reasonable approach. The car was still usable during the period Mrs D was 
waiting for the repair and she was kept mobile  whilst it was being repaired.  I think a refund of 
one of the four payments made  during that period is fair and reasonable given the 
inconvenience experienced  and Im not asking VWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8620856