K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  that National Westminster Bank Plc declined  their application to 
increase their overdraft;  and then didnt tell them. Mr and Mrs H are also unhappy that 
National Westminster Bank Plc cancelled  their debit cards.  
background
In October  2018, Mr and Mrs H found  they didnt have enough money in their account  to 
cover their upcoming direct  debits. Unfortunately Mrs H had been off work sick, and hadnt 
been receiving  her usual  income. Mr and Mrs H say they went  into branch to explore their 
options and were advised to apply for an overdraft increase. The application passed an initial  
credit check  and was referred to the underwriting team. NatWest said it would call them  
about the application within 48 hours. 
When Mr and Mrs H didnt hear from NatWest within a few days, they got in touch and found 
out their application  had been declined due to "access and charges on account and 
serviceability not [being] demonstrated.  NatWest  then refunded  some recent charges on 
the account, and also blocked  any further charges for the next two months. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to NatWest about  being turned down and not receiving  a call. 
They also said theyd applied for the increase to avoid charges  and shouldve  been 
advised not to pay the direct debits instead. Mr and Mrs H said they didnt know a declined  
application would show up on their credit file, and this caused them  to be declined  for 
another loan.  
NatWest agreed it should have called Mr and Mrs H, and offered £50 for this. But it didnt 
overturn the decline  or remove  the credit file record, saying the application hadnt met its 
lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs H werent  happy with this. They were  also unhappy that NatWest had cancelled 
their debit cards when they asked for non-contactless versions. An investigator  here 
reviewed the complaint.  He didnt think it wouldve been responsible  for NatWest to advise 
Mr and Mrs H not to pay their direct debits. He also felt NatWest had taken positive steps  to 
help them by refunding and stopping  the charges. The investigator concluded that £50 was 
fair compensation for the communication issues. He also found that Mr and Mrs H hadnt 
been left without a card, as the previous ones had been cancelled after new ones had been 
sent out. Overall,  he didnt  think NatWest needed to do anything more.   
Mr and Mrs H have asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  They  still feel NatWest is 
at fault. And they want evidence of the conversation they had in branch.
The staff member who dealt with them in branch has now provided her account. This has 
already been shared with Mr and Mrs H: 
I do not recall the customer  but would always go through the scripting  where by it states 
they are going  to be credit scored and could affect them applying  for things in the future, if it 
got referred to [the underwriters] I would explain to the customer  I have to send the 
application to our underwriters for them to make a decision and then I would contact the 
customer with the information once the underwriters had contacted me with the decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN88544072Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs H say theyre unhappy NatWest cancelled their cards when they wanted to stop 
the contactless function. But NatWest  cant de-activate the contactless function, so had to 
send out new cards. They were sent new cards  before their old ones were cancelled.  So 
neither was left without  a working card. 
Mr and Mrs H think NatWest shouldve advised  them not to pay their direct  debits  rather  than 
apply for an overdraft increase. Under  the terms of the account, the charge for unpaid  direct 
debits is capped at £8 per account per month. But its Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility  to keep 
track of what they might be charged and manage their finances.  I think it wouldve been 
irresponsible for NatWest to recommend that Mr and Mrs H didnt pay their direct debits. 
This may have left them  owing money to third parties, which could also have had adverse 
consequences. And returned direct debits  may have counted  against  them  for future 
borrowing, given that account management  is often a factor in lending decisions.  
Given Mr and Mrs Hs situation, I dont think it was wrong for NatWest to suggest  an 
overdraft increase. If successful, this wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs H to meet  their financial 
commitments. I dont know whether Mr and Mrs H were  told about how a decline would show 
up on their credit file. But on balance, Im not convinced this wouldve swayed their decision. 
Thats because theyd  actively  approached NatWest about finding a way to meet their 
financial commitments. 
That said,  Ive considered whether NatWest shouldve approved the increase. Banks are 
entitled to set their own lending  policies  and criteria. So long as they apply these correctly 
and fairly,  I cant reasonably interfere in a decision not to lend. In this instance, NatWest 
says it declined the application  due to "access and charges on account and serviceability 
not [being] demonstrated. Mr and Mrs H say they paid money  into the account as soon as 
they received  a text warning that they were  over or approaching their limit. But its ultimately  
their responsibility to manage their account and stay within the limit. And NatWest is fairly 
entitled to take previous account  management  into account when deciding  whether to 
increase available credit. 
Mr and Mrs H have questioned why their application  wasnt  turned down in branch. Thats  
because it needed  to be reviewed by the underwriting team. Although Mr and Mrs H passed 
the initial credit check, NatWest can  and does  take other factors  into account. When      
Mr H called NatWest to chase up a response, he himself showed  awareness that the 
application was being reviewed by the underwriting team  and wasnt  guaranteed  
comparing it to his mortgage application. By passing  the application to the underwriting 
team, NatWest ensured it considered the application  fairly and in line with its lending criteria.
I do think NatWest shouldve  contacted Mr and Mrs H directly when it declined their 
application. This caused them some  inconvenience  as they had to take time chasing up a 
response. But it wouldve always been disappointing to find out the application hadnt  been 
successful  even  if theyd found  out sooner. And there  was never a guarantee that the 
application would succeed. So I think the £50 NatWest has offered is fair compensation for 
the delay. 
Ref: DRN88544073I do appreciate that Mr and Mrs H approached NatWest because  they were in a difficult  
financial situation. Id therefore expect NatWest  to treat Mr and Mrs H positively and 
sympathetically. When NatWest wasnt able to increase the overdraft, it refunded  some 
charges and blocked any more for the next two months. These were charges that NatWest 
was entitled to apply under the terms of the account. So I think  this response  was positive 
and sympathetic, as it helped alleviate  the financial strain Mr and Mrs H faced. 
Overall, I understand why it was disappointing  for Mr and Mrs H to have their application 
declined, and to have to chase NatWest  for a response. But I think  NatWest  has taken 
positive steps  to help and has offered sufficient  compensation for the communication issues. 
I also dont think NatWest  made an error with the cards it sent out. So I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.  
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8854407