K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs J bought  the policy in 2001  around the same time as applying for a loan. It 
seems they applied for the loan through the post and were sold the PPI policy over the 
phone before signing the credit agreement. 
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £99.60 was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 24 month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £45.86 with the PPI costing an additional £4.57 making the total 
monthly repayment £50.43. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr J for disability, unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  Mr and Mrs Js monthly loan repayment  for up 
to 12 months in the event of unemployment  and the remaining  term in the event of a 
successful disability claim. It would repay the outstanding  balance  in full in the event of Mr 
Js death. 
Because it was Mr J who was covered by the policy, Ive only set out his circumstances 
here. 
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a Warehouse  Operative.  He has told us he was entitled 
to less than three months sick pay and had some  savings.  Hes also said he would have 
received redundancy pay and had death  in service benefit. Mr J has said he was in good  
health at the time of the sale. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Js representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr J wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Js 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN85206342claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs J about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms  were  unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs J 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr and Mrs J received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Js. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Js complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
Ref: DRN85206343complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
Ref: DRN85206344-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs J with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs J, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs J 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs J 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs J know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
As Ive explained above, Mr and Mrs J applied for the PPI over the phone  and Nationwide  
says they were subsequently  sent a credit agreement to sign  this set out what  was agreed 
during the call. There isnt a recording of the call which  I dont find surprising bearing in mind  
the length of time since the sale. But it does  mean  I have limited  information about the sale  
so I must decide what I think is reasonable based on the available evidence. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Js credit agreement and this shows  the PPI set out 
separately and described as Optional Credit Insurance. It also sets out the policy is to cover 
Mr J only, suggesting a choice had been  made. So had Mr and Mrs J not known the PPI was 
optional during the call with the Nationwide representative, I would have  expected them to 
question this on receipt of his credit agreement  which  clearly  highlighted the optional  
nature of the PPI. Mr and Mrs J have signed this agreement  confirming  the selection made 
prior to the loan and PPI being  set up. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs J knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr and Mrs J havent said either  
way. Looking at what happened when Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs J the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice  Ive seen nothing to suggest Nationwide  recommended 
the cover  to Mr and Mrs J having considered their individual needs and circumstances.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs J. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs J to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
Ref: DRN85206345their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs J were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs J was unable to work through accident, sickness  and unemployment.) I have 
reached this conclusion because this was set out on the credit agreement they signed 
(which I think  likely reflected the conversation had with the Nationwide  representative on the 
phone) and I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs J would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. And while I cant know what was discussed during the phone 
call I think its likely  Mr and Mrs J knew that the single premium being added  to the loan was 
£99.60, the interest added to the premium was £10.08, the total cost was £109.68 and the 
monthly cost was £4.57 (as this information  was, in my view, sufficiently clear  on the loan 
agreement Mr and Mrs J signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
and Mrs J agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Js. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Js representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs J about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Js representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs J has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry 
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN85206346What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs J? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs J suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs J. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs J suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs J would have still taken out the policy,  had Nationwide  done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs J says they would not have taken  it out and believes I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs J had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs J chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs J thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed  
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs J has suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
As Ive already  said, while Mr and Mrs J might  not have been clearly given the cost 
information during  the phone call, the information Mr and Mrs J were given in the credit  
agreement which followed the call  and which required their signature before the loan the 
PPI started   was clear. So overall,  Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs J would have found the 
cost unacceptable  if they had been  given all of the cost information during the phone  call in 
which they agreed to the policy. If they had found it unacceptable,  I would have expected 
them to have raised this on receipt of the credit agreement which  set this out clearly to them.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs J would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Js 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their loan payments)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs J thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  condition or disease  which  Mr S knew  
of or should  reasonably have known  of on the start date. Or any medical condition or 
disease for which he received treatment, advice or was refer for investigation during 
the 12 months before the start date and which recurred within  12 months of the start 
date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs J pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
Ref: DRN85206347limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs J from taking 
out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr J was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr J wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr J didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs J would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr J needed  to be unable  to do any work as certified  by a doctor. 
I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have expected  to make a claim.  
After all, the policy provided cover if Mr J couldnt  work due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. So, it seems unlikely he would have thought  hed been  able to make a 
successful claim  if was still working. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr and Mrs J decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs J would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr and Mrs J made redundant, or unable to work  through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs 
J would  have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Js representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs J would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ref: DRN85206348Js circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr 
and Mrs J found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs J believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs J in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs J compensation, as that would put them in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs J thinks Nationwide misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility  a court might conclude some  
of Nationwides  statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mr and 
Mrs J, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2001  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Js representative says a court  might  take if 
it were to find Nationwide negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs J and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Nationwide  had been  in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs J in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 August 2021.
Ref: DRN85206349Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8520634