K820x#14Complaint
Mr G complains that the holiday he booked through a holiday provider and paid for using his 
American Express Payment Services Limited  (American Express) card wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. He raised his complaint with American  Express and says his complaint wasnt 
handled correctly.  He wants the cost of his holiday refunded.
Background
Mr G booked a package  holiday (including hotel and flights) in July 2018 using his credit  
card. He raised  a chargeback claim on return from his holiday because he says the goods / 
services he received werent  as described. He says that the hotel was advertised as part of a 
five star chain but this wasnt the case.  He says he was told the rooms  would have air 
conditioning and that the hotel staff spoke English but this wasnt  the case. He also says that 
on his return flight both seats he had booked were  broken and that during a 12 hour flight  
only one meal and one snack was served. 
Mr G says that American Express closed his complaint in favour  of the holiday  provider  
because he had used  the services, he hadnt  contacted the holiday provider, and the holiday  
provider had provided a defence. He says he had no choice but to make the best of the 
holiday. He says the documents provided  by the holiday  provider  in defence were  illegible 
and only appeared to be the booking confirmations  and he says he called the holiday 
provider the day he returned and was told that it didnt do refunds which  was why he 
contacted American  Express about the chargeback. He then received correspondence from 
the holiday provider  which he says confirmed the holiday  wasnt satisfactory and that the 
conditions were poor. He says it offered  £400  compensation as a gesture of goodwill but he 
didnt accept.
Mr G says American Express didnt handle his complaint correctly and provided him with 
poor customer service. He challenged the timing of when the defence was provided. 
American Express says that Mr G raised  his complaint in December 2018.  It says the 
complaint was raised as goods/services not as described and that following information 
provided by Mr G it applied a credit to his account  on 7 January 2019.  It says the information 
provided at that time set out that this credit could be reversed if information  was provided by 
the merchant  to support its case. It says the holiday provider submitted documentation in 
February 2019 and having reviewed this the credit was reversed.
American Express did accept that in dealing with Mr Gs complaint it didnt provide the 
service it should have done as Mr G wasnt  called back  when he had been told he would be. 
It felt the rest of the service was provided  as it should have been. Due to this it applied  a 
credit of £50 to Mr Gs account as a gesture of goodwill. 
American Express says that Mr G then raised  a complaint under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Rights Act 1975 (section  75). It says that after investigating Mr Gs claim it didnt 
uphold it. It says that the issue  regarding the ownership of the hotel wasnt  initially  raised 
which it suggested meant this wasnt an inducement to the booking.  It notes the other 
concerns raised  but says that only the air conditioning was a genuine cause  for concern. It 
says that the holiday  provider had offered £400 as a gesture of goodwill which it says was 
sufficient for this issue and suggested  Mr G contact the holiday provider about this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. Although he thought that American  Express  
shouldnt have rejected Mr Gs section 75 claim, he thought the offers made by the holiday 
Ref: DRN85401002provider (£400 compensation) and the flight provider (24,000 air miles) were  sufficient and 
he didnt require American Express to offer anything further.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view and raised  a number of points in response.  He 
said that the defence document provided  by the holiday  supplier didnt address the points he 
had raised in his chargeback claim. He said his complaint wasnt just about  the chargeback 
but also how his complaint  was handled  and being  told to substantiate his claim but then 
when he asked how, not getting an answer.
Mr G said that although  the holiday provider had offered £400  as a gesture of goodwill this 
had never  been  received. He also said that while he accepted the air miles these werent  of 
use. He said that the holiday had been  misrepresented and that he had paid extra  due to the 
claims by the holiday  company of the quality  and star rating but he didnt receive the benefit 
of this. He said although  he had asked  for a breakdown between flights  and accommodation  
this hadnt been provided but he believed the hotel to be the main cost of the holiday.
Mr G says he raised issues  with the hotel  but it didnt do anything which was why he 
escalated his complaint.  He said that his complaint about the service provided  by American 
Express hadnt been considered. He said that our investigator didnt agree with his claim 
being rejected  and so he should  now receive  the refund  of his claim amount.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised  a number of issues with his holiday, specifically there being no air 
conditioning in the room, damaged wardrobes,  limited English spoken by hotel staff,  and 
damaged seats  on the return flight. He has also commented  more generally that the holiday 
wasnt of the standard he was led to believe it would be from the holiday providers 
advertising. He said that the advert  suggested the hotel was part of a five star group but it 
wasnt and wasnt of that standard.
Mr G initially raised  a chargeback complaint. As our investigator set out, the chargeback 
scheme is a voluntary scheme whereby the finance provider (American Express)  can 
investigate a dispute a consumer has with the merchant if they've been unable  to reach a 
resolution. In this case Mr G raised his complaint  with American  Express having already 
raised it with the holiday provider.  He provided  information supporting  his complaint and 
American Express credited his account with money he paid for the holiday while his 
complaint was investigated. This is what we would  expect.
American Express has said that it received a response from the holiday provider saying that 
Mr G had full benefit  of the holiday  and flight and hadnt tried to cancel  before departure  and 
that that Mr G could have  contacted it during his trip to enable  it to try to address his 
concerns.
Mr G did take the holiday  and so made use of the flights  and the hotel for the duration if his 
stay. This has never been in dispute.  Mr Gs complaint  was that the holiday wasnt  as 
described. However, based on the issues Mr G raised and the feedback from the holiday 
provider, I do not find it unreasonable that American  Express reapplied the charge  to Mr Gs 
account. 
Ref: DRN85401003Mr G then raised a section 75 claim. Under section 75 Mr G can have a claim against the 
finance provider  (American  Express) over the actions of a third party (the holiday provider) if 
there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
While I can understand why Mr G was upset that the holiday wasnt  to the standard  he had 
expected, the only breach of contract I can see is that Mr G was told the room would have 
air conditioning and this wasnt provided, rather the air conditioning was centrally controlled. 
I do not find I can say the issue with the wardrobes was a breach. I understand why Mr G 
didnt feel he could  change hotels and that the lack of air conditioning caused  discomfort.  
Mr G has also said the holiday was misrepresented. He has mentioned  the air conditioning 
in this regard as well as saying the holiday wasnt of the standard he would have expected,  
specifically noting  the marketing of the hotel as part of a five star chain. I have looked at the 
information provided by Mr G about  the hotel and it appears that the hotel is recorded as five 
star. I note the comments about the ownership  of the hotel but I do not find that I can say 
that this would have been the inducement to book  the hotel, rather, on balance, I would 
expect the rating and other information such as location and facilities  to be the key factors in 
deciding where  to stay.  While I appreciate Mr Gs comments  about the standard not being 
what he expected,  I do not find there is enough evidence to say a misrepresentation has 
occurred. 
While I understand that he is upset  by the service  he received in the hotel, including the 
limited English spoken, I do not find that this is enough to say a misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  occurred as it appears from the correspondence that the staff did speak some 
English. I also note the other points raised  regarding a payment in cash for the shuttle 
service but I do not find I can say this amounts to a breach or misrepresentation.
In regard to the return flight, I can understand that a damaged seat on such  a long flight is 
not reasonable. I understand  that he was offered a seat in economy but had paid for 
premium economy. So while I appreciate why Mr G didnt accept the offer to change  seats, 
this could have  been a reasonable remedy for the flight  after which the difference  in the seat 
costs could have  been considered. However  Mr G remained  in the premium  economy seats 
and without further evidence I do not find I can say that the damage was of a level that 
means there  was a breach  of contract. I note that air miles have been provided  to Mr G from 
the airline and while  I appreciate these may not have value to Mr G I do not find that I can 
say American Express is required to do anything further in regard to this issue.
Overall, I understand why Mr G is upset.  Mr G asked  for a full refund of the holiday but I do 
not find this would be fair. While the holiday wasnt of the standard  Mr G had expected,  he 
did still benefit from the flights and the accommodation. However I do accept that his 
enjoyment was reduced due to the issue with the air conditioning.
In this case the holiday provider offered a £400  gesture of goodwill. Based on a holiday cost 
of just under  £2,000 I think this was fair. Given the information provided  to American Express  
in regard to this case I do not find that it did anything wrong by not offering a further refund 
and saying Mr G should contact the holiday provider  about its offer. Therefore I do not find 
that I can uphold  this part of Mr Gs complaint. 
I understand that Mr G didnt initially accept the offer from the holiday provider and if he now 
wishes to accept this he should contact it directly.
Ref: DRN85401004Mr G has also raised  concerns about  how his complaint was handled. I can understand his 
frustration at being asked to substantiate  his claim when he had provided all he could. 
However, I find it reasonable that American  Express would give Mr G the opportunity to 
provide further  evidence  to support his claim and that it wouldnt necessarily prescribe  what  
was required.  Overall, I understand how frustrating this process  has been but I do not find 
that American Express is required to provide any further compensation (aside  from the £50 
gesture of goodwill already provided) due to the handling of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8540100