K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that the level of service he received from Sense Network Limited (Sense)
was unacceptable. There were multiple  errors in the reports  provided  and, ultimately, he
never received a cashflow projection  that would assist with his decision as to whether or not
to transfer his pension.
background
Mr A signed  the fee agreement with Sense on 17 July 2018, this set out that there was a flat
fee of £2,500 for the review of one of his occupational pension  schemes  (OPS) 
specifically, for the investigation into and recommendation on whether or not he should
transfer this OPS.
Initially Sense recommended against  the transfer. Mr A and Sense met, and it became
apparent that one of his pensions had not been  included  in its original report. This was
corrected during the meeting and Sense  agreed to reconsider  everything  to see if this
changed its recommendations.
Sense issued its subsequent suitability report on 3 August  2018,  this confirmed that given
the charging method was £2,500 per scheme it had been agreed that it would undertake a
full review of only one of Mr As schemes.
It confirmed that:
Based  on our cashflow analysis,  we compared  your situation in the event of retaining  
your funds  or transferring away:
-In the event of transferring away, no shortfall is projected. However,  this is based on 
investment growth on your money  purchase  pension funds, which  is not guaranteed. 
In this instance, a much  smaller amount of your pension income is secure.
-In the event of you leaving the benefits in the scheme, you would have a shortfall in 
early and very late retirement  (although none  is projected in mid retirement).  
However, your long term secure  pensions are higher.  In order  to bridge this gap, you 
would need to save a further circa  £28,000 per annum until age 60, which  is 
realistically achievable as this is comfortably  within your surplus income.
Sense recommended  that Mr A retain  the scheme,  whilst the adviser noted that there were
advantages and disadvantages  to both options, she felt that the value of the guarantees and
the security these provided outweighed  the advantages of transferring. She also found that
Mr As objectives could still be met by other means  if he did not transfer the OPS.
Mr A says that he had a number of concerns about  the report  from the outset but focused on
trying to move ahead with the transfer  before the guaranteed transfer value expired.
Mr A approached the provider he intended to transfer his OPS  to with the declaration
confirming that he had received advice, but it would not accept the transfer because the
advice was not to transfer.
On 6 September 2018, Mr A emailed Sense confirming that he had spoken to his preferred
provider and it would not accept the transfer without  positive  advice.  He also asked some
questions and asked  that Sense remain open minded in relation to its recommendation.
Ref: DRN81590982On 11 September  2018, Sense responded to the queries Mr A raised,  amongst other things,
the adviser said:
The spike in income was a system input mistake.  A corrected cashflow  was provided 
and it was confirmed  that the error  would  not influence the recommendation. In fact, 
the revised position improves  the financial position  where no transfer  takes place.
The cashflow preserves money purchase  schemes, the use of these  later on is 
represented by the pink.
The pensions that Mr A thought had been  missed out had been  included.
The risk involved in transferring was not justified in this instance.
Mr A did not meet its definition of a sophisticated  client  and some of his 
assumptions about what was viable in terms of his pension were a cause for 
concern.
Despite Mr As points she believed on balance that he still fell into the group of 
people for whom it would not be suitable  to transfer.
Mr A could  transfer out of the scheme later if needs be but would not be able to 
return to it if he were  to transfer out, so she strongly recommended that he retain the 
security of the OPS.
On 13 September  2018, Mr A raised a complaint with Sense, he said:
The complaint  is solely  about  the accuracy of the financial forecast used to assess 
the suitability of the OPS transfer.
Sense  provided  documentation in support of its recommendation, during  the meeting 
to discuss the report  it became apparent  that there were  some errors in the report  
and one of his pensions had not been taken  into account. This was corrected during 
the meeting and the adviser agreed  to review her recommendation  and discuss it 
with a colleague.
On 16 August 2018, a further  report was provided, and the recommendation 
remained to retain  the OPS.
After that he focused on transferring his OPS  ahead  of the guaranteed transfer 
period deadline (7 September 2018) but it transpired  that the receiving scheme would 
not accept the transfer unless positive advice to transfer had been received.
Unable to proceed with his intended course of action, he challenged the 
recommendation.
He highlighted  a number of concerns he had with the report  and queried the 
recommendation.
In its response Sense  acknowledged that there  was an input error in the cashflow 
report but did not amend the recommendation and did not justify  this adequately in 
light of all of the relevant  circumstances.
Ref: DRN81590983After some additional correspondence he came  to the conclusion that Sense could 
not provide him with an accurate forecast  and it did not take into account his original 
objectives. These were:
o1. To be in control of my pension.  In particular I have a lot of uncertainty  
around the credit risk of [name of scheme]
o2. To have flexibility in when  I retire given I have uncertainty around the 
longevity of my career
o3. To benefit from a taxation perspective  of controlled drawdown of funds and 
also maximise  lump sum payment
o4. To provide  a better pension to my wife on death
o5. To have the ability to pass on this pot of funds to my descendants
o6. To benefit from flexible drawdown to meet my changing lifestyle through 
my retirement. (Decreasing requirement for funds with age)
He did not understand  why the advice seemingly did not take his objectives into 
account or how it could be suitable  as a result  of that.
He still believed that the report was flawed for a number  of reasons.
Sense did not uphold  his complaint, it said:
The adviser was right to start from the position  that it is suitable for most people to 
retain accrued  OPS  benefits;
This does not mean that it is always  unsuitable  to transfer but that it has to be clearly  
demonstrated that transferring out would  be in his best interests for such a 
recommendation to be provided;
Mr A was aware that there  was no guarantee that a transfer out would be 
recommended;
He entered  into the process on the assumption  that the adviser  would recommend 
the transfer, would sign the necessary declaration and that his intended receiving 
scheme would  accept the transfer;
The adviser did not agree, having taken everything into account,  she believed  
retaining the OPS  benefits was in Mr As best interests  but, she did sign the 
declaration needed  to confirm advice had been received;
It is up to the receiving scheme to decide if it is willing  to accept the transfer where 
the advice given was not to transfer   that is not something Sense has any influence 
over.
There were  some  inconsistencies in the cash flow modelling, these were discussed  
and amended but the recommendation remained unchanged.  The advice was based  
on a number of factors, not the cashflow forecast  in isolation.
Mr A is still around eight years away  from retirement,  he will be able to revisit the 
possibility of transferring  or reconsider this in the future but if he transferred out now 
that is irreversible. 
Ref: DRN81590984Whilst Mr A may not agree with the recommendation, the adviser  completed  the work 
in line with the fee agreement and it is under no obligation to pay for any future 
advice he may choose to obtain  or any fluctuation in the transfer value of the OPS.
Mr A responded disagreeing with several aspects  of the response. Amongst other things, he
disagreed that he had already made up his mind about transferring and said that the true
issue was that he still had not received an accurate cash flow forecast. Sense and Mr A
exchanged some further correspondence, but he remained unhappy with its responses and
referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and concluded that it should  not be upheld, she
found that:
The advice was suitable.
There were  some  inconsistencies in the cashflow report, but Sense  corrected  these, 
and this was not the only thing that impacted  the advice.
Sense  provided  a service in line with its fee agreement.
Mr A did not agree  and made further  submissions in support of his complaint. Mr A has said:
He did not require a recommendation, he needed an accurate financial forecast to 
assist him in deciding  what to do with his pension.
All of the reports provided had errors in them, because of this he has still not 
received an accurate  picture of his financial position.
Sense  did not inform  him that he may not be able to transfer his OPS to certain  
providers without  a positive recommendation.
It is not true that his intention  had always been  to transfer.
He was not persuaded by the recommendation because of the inaccuracies.
I sent my provisional decision to Mr A and Sense explaining why I didnt think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  My provisional  findings  are attached  and form part of this decision. Mr A 
disagreed, he said:  
He was openminded to Senses  recommendation  but was operating on the basis that 
regardless of the outcome  of the recommendation he would be able to transfer out. 
Sense  did not inform  him that he would not be able to transfer  to most providers 
without a positive  recommendation. 
It was only when  he was turned down by his provider of choice that he realised the 
importance of the recommendation.  
He was never provided  with an accurate report that supported  his own calculations  
and because of this he has not proceeded with the transfer despite knowing a 
provider that would  accept the transfer without positive advice. 
Ref: DRN81590985He gave the adviser multiple opportunities to correct the report, but he never 
received an accurate  cashflow report and that was what  he needed. 
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the complaint was passed back to me for review.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons set out below and in my 
attached provisional findings, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.
I have considered everything  that has been submitted to me, including Mr As most recent 
submissions. I remain of the view that the advice  Sense provided  was not unsuitable  and 
took his objectives into account. I understand Mr A maintains that the recommendation was 
not as important to him as receiving an accurate forecast, but I think  it is relevant.  I also think  
that if Sense had been persuaded to change  its recommendation  Mr A would not have 
complained. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  Sense did make a few mistakes in the cashflow report, 
this resulted in inaccuracies in the forecast. I understand this must  have  been  frustrating for 
Mr A, particularly when making  an important  decision. That said, I remain  of the view that 
Sense did correct the errors and tried to deal with Mr As concerns. Mr A disagrees  but I am 
not persuaded that Sense could have convinced  him to accept its recommendation. 
Sense does not appear to have  informed Mr A of the possibility that even  with the certificate  
confirming he had received advice he may not be able to proceed  with the transfer without  
positive advice. By receiving advice  from an independent financial adviser and Sense 
completing the declaration Mr A met the applicable  regulatory and legislative requirements.  
Beyond that it is down to individual schemes  and businesses to decide  what  business they 
will accept  and under  which  circumstances. The fact that some providers wont accept OPS  
transfers unless  the consumer  has been advised  to transfer, would only be relevant where 
the adviser recommends against the transfer,  the consumer decides to act against that 
advice and the chosen receiving scheme  refuses to accept the transfer on that basis. I would 
not necessarily expect Sense to highlight this in advance or start the advice  process 
assuming that Mr A would go against  its advice.  
Ref: DRN81590986I understand that this has left Mr A in a difficult position and that he has gone on to pay for a 
different adviser   but, I am not persuaded that this is as a result of a failing on Senses part. 
I dont think the advice was unsuitable and, whilst there were some  input  errors  in the 
cashflow forecast, as I said above, it corrected these  and tried to deal with Mr As concerns. I 
am satisfied  that if Mr As chosen provider had accepted the transfer or if Sense had agreed 
to change its recommendation,  it is most  likely this complaint would  have been  raised.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2021.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81590987PROVISIONAL FINDINGS
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is my role to fairly and reasonably decide  if the business has done anything  wrong  in
respect of the individual circumstances of the complaint made and  if I find that the
business has done something  wrong  award compensation for any material  loss or distress
and inconvenience  suffered by the complainant as a result of this.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position
and I am grateful  to them for doing  so. I have  considered these submissions in their entirety.
However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on what I consider to
be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not to address every
point raised in detail,  but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching  them.
Mr A maintains that he never received an accurate cashflow report that he could base his
decision on and that, more than a recommendation, is what he required in order to be in an
informed position.
There were issues with the advice process. There were errors in the reports, and these led
to inaccuracies in the cashflow analysis. This is of course unfortunate, particularly at a
junction where Mr A was making important decisions about his retirement provision and how
best to manage  this. When Mr A challenged these the adviser  tried to correct the mistakes
and initially  agreed  to reconsider her recommendations.  However, ultimately, her
recommendation remained that Mr A should retain his OPS as the benefits  of this and the
security it provided outweighed the benefits  of transferring.
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 19.1.6G,  provides guidance on assessing the
suitability of pension  transfers, it sets out that:
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail  client who is, or is 
eligible to be, a member  of a pension scheme  with safeguarded benefits  and who is 
considering whether to transfer, convert  or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming 
that a transfer,  conversion or opt-out  will not be suitable.
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary  evidence, that the transfer,  conversion  or 
optout is in the retail  clients best interests .
I think the adviser did take Mr As objectives  into account and she recommended a course of
action to try and achieve these without transferring his OPS.  Mr A does  not agree with the
outcome reached  and from the correspondence exchanged at the time it is clear that he had
hoped that the corrections  to the cashflow would  lead to the adviser  changing her
Ref: DRN81590988recommendation.
Whilst I can understand that the mistakes would  have caused Mr A concern, I think  that the
adviser did try to deal with the issues highlighted and reassure him in respect of her
recommendation. Fundamentally, I think  that Mr A and the adviser placed different values on
the security provided  by the OPS, and I am not persuaded that Mr As position would have
changed if there had not been  errors in the cashflow mapping.
I am also satisfied that the advice was not unsuitable. Mr A held a number of defined  benefit 
and defined contribution schemes  that already afforded him a degree  of flexibility  without  
giving up the benefits of the OPS. Based on Mr As submissions, I think  he believes that 
greater weight ought to have been  placed on his experience and financial acumen. 
Establishing a clients knowledge  and experience  is a very important part of an advice 
process but this would not necessarily determine  the outcome the advice. Or, in other words, 
change a course of action  from being unsuitable to being suitable.  In this instance,  the value 
of the guarantees and the security provided  by the OPS were not diminished by Mr As 
experience.
So, I think that Sense fulfilled  its obligations  in line with its agreement with Mr A and I dont
think that the advice provided was unsuitable.
I can see that Mr A was frustrated by the process  and, under  the circumstances, I can
understand his position. I dont doubt  that he had concerns about there being errors in the
reports provided. That said, I agree with our investigator that if Sense had recommended the
transfer (either initially or once the corrections had taken place) or if his preferred receiving
scheme had agreed  to accept the transfer  without a positive recommendation having been
made this complaint would not have been  raised.
Sense did not inform  Mr A of the possibility that even with the certificate confirming he had
received advice he may not be able to proceed  with the transfer  without positive advice. I
would not expect Sense to highlight this in advance or start the advice process  assuming
that Mr A would go against its advice.
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Mr A but I am not persuaded that his
complaint should  be upheld.  Based on the above I dont think that Mr A has suffered a
financial loss and I dont  think  it would be fair to require  Sense to refund the fee paid to it or
pay for additional advice elsewhere  in light of the service it provided.
Ref: DRN8159098