K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller  to keep 
things simple. 
Mrs C opened a store card account in a shop in March 2001.  At the same  time, she took out 
a PPI policy. Mrs C says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs C disagreed 
with the adjudicators view. So the complaints been  passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
In 2001 when Mrs C applied for her store card she completed an application form in a store.  
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional  and gain Mrs Cs consent before 
adding it to her card.  
Mrs C says she doesnt remember  being  told much about the PPI. I cant  be certain  what  
was said at the time, but I have seen  a copy of Mrs Cs store  card application. I can see 
there was a separate section on the application for PPI and Mrs C has signed  to request the 
cover be added to her account. If Mrs C didnt  want the cover she could have left this section 
blank. Mrs C also signed the application form in agreement  with the selections that had been 
made on it. So, taking  all this into consideration, I think Mrs C knew the policy was optional 
and chose to take it. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt need to check that it was suitable for her 
given her circumstances at the time.  But it did need  to ensure that she was given enough  
information to decide whether she wanted to take it. 
Although I dont know what was said to her then, I think  its likely  that the information she 
received about  the PPI could have  been  better than it was. But I dont think  better 
information would have changed her mind about taking the cover  and Ill explain why. 
Mrs C appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Mrs C hasnt specified  what employee benefits  she may have had. 
However, the PPI wouldve paid out up to 15% of Mrs Cs outstanding monthly balance, until 
she returned to work  or the outstanding  balance had been paid off. And she wouldve 
received the same benefit if she was made redundant. The policy  wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay. So I think  she would have valued the extra 
security which  the policy  gave her if things  went wrong. 
Ref: DRN85344492I appreciate what Mrs C has said about not being able to afford the extra  payments. But as I 
have set out above, I think  Mrs C chose to take the policy out and the policys  premiums 
were paid monthly, so she could  have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs  which  I 
understand she did. 
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs C has lost out as a result  
of anything AXA may have done  wrong.  Which  means AXA doesnt have to pay back to Mrs 
C the cost of the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8534449