K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with what happened  after they contacted Ageas Retail  Limited 
(trading as RIAS) to cancel their policy renewal. 
background
On 15 April Mr S called RIAS to tell them he didnt want to renew  his car insurance policy,  on 
which Mrs S is a named  driver. RIASs systems were down but the call-handler  said theyd 
action his request  once  things were up and running again. A little later the call-handler  
checked the account, saw the auto-renewal had already started and asked for the premium 
payment to be refunded.
Mrs S called RIAS on 18 April because although  the original payment had been refunded 
another transaction for the same  amount was showing  on their internet  banking. They spoke  
with their bank and RIAS  to try to get this cancelled. But RIAS  said it couldnt  do anything 
immediately and the Easter  bank  holiday weekend might delay things.
The pending  transaction was still showing on 23 April so Mrs S got in touch with RIAS again  
and ended up raising a complaint because they said they couldnt  do anything  to remove it at 
that time.  The transaction vanished the following day.
RIAS said it didnt request  the payment a second  time and couldnt  do anything  more than it 
had about the refund. But it offered £50 compensation in recognition  that the call-handler 
Mrs S spoke with on 18 April could have delta better with the situation.
Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy so complained to us. But our investigator didnt think  RIAS  
had requested the payment a second time and had done enough with regards to the poor 
customer service.  Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, so the case has come  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think this complaint  should be upheld and I say that because:
RIAS gave fair warning, in the policy renewal letter, that the premium would be taken by 
debit card up to five working days before  the renewal date of 19 April. It was requested  
within that timeframe, on the morning of 15 April 2019.
RIASs records show its systems were down when Mr S first called. So the call-handler 
couldnt see the payment had already been requested  in order  to, perhaps, warn him 
what might  happen if the refund  was put through before the payment had actually 
debited his bank  account. 
RIAS takes payments  for policy premiums  through  a particular merchant services 
provider. The records Ive seen show  the authorisation number Mrs S was given  by her 
bank (015205) related to the original card payment processed that was processed on 
15 April, rather than a subsequent/second payment. The records also shows  the refund 
request being  made within two hours of Mr Ss call and completed early the following 
morning. Mr and Mrs Ss bank statement shows the refund credited  their account on 
Ref: DRN8635852216 April which was, in fact, before the original request for payment debited  their account 
the following  day. 
After Mrs S called  on 18 April, the call-handler checked with the accounts team who 
emailed a query to the merchant services provider within 30 mins of the call in which 
Mrs S confirmed  the authorisation code her bank had given her. The merchant services  
provider still hadnt replied by 23 April, when  Mrs S got in touch again. I dont think  
theres anything more RIAS could have done and cant fairly hold them responsible for 
the merchant  services providers delayed response (which  might have been longer than 
usual due to the Easter  bank holiday weekend).
RIASs notes show Mr and Mrs Ss complaint was escalated on 18 April. Mrs S spoke 
with a manager who, it seems, explained what could be done, apologised for the way her 
concerns had been handled and offered £50 compensation by way of an apology.  An 
update call was attempted, as promised, on 20 April but Mr and Mrs S missed this 
because their phone had been  left at home. RIAS checked up on things and called Mrs S 
again on 23 April,  after the bank holiday weekend  but the merchant services provider still 
hadnt replied  by then.
Mrs S emailed  RIAS, it seems, after the phone call on 23 April.  The email  was 
acknowledged and a response promised  within 48 hours.  Two emails were sent to Mrs S 
on 25 April, one saying the refund should  show within  five days  and a later one saying 
the refund  had been processed and the bank  account should settle correctly in two-
working days. With that in mind, Mrs S says the pending transaction had already 
disappeared at that point.
Theres no evidence to show  RIAS  put the payment through  a second time. But, even if they 
had, Mr and Mrs S say they dealt  with the resulting financial  difficulties by moving  some  
money into the current account  from their savings. That seems  a relatively simple step which 
was necessary for just a few days.  I can also see they seem to have an agreed overdraft 
which far exceeds the amount of the pending  payment. And quite a number of debits show 
on the account on the first working  day after the bank holiday weekend, at least some  of 
which are likely to have  been made over the weekend. So I have difficulty accepting the 
pending transaction inconvenienced Mr and Mrs S to a great extent. And, in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  theres anything more RIAS couldve done to help once Mrs S 
notified them  about the pending transaction.
But I do accept there  was a delay in RIAS sending the £50 compensation cheque. This was 
offered on 18 April but wasnt sent until 13 May, two working days after the final response 
was issued. RIAS  says this was due to some confusion between departments about who 
would send the cheque.  Sometimes mistakes  like this do happen and while  it wasnt ideal to 
keep Mr and Mrs S waiting for their compensation, I dont think the delay was intentional or 
warrants a further  award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2019.
Ref: DRN86358523Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8635852