K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why.
 
The sale of Mr and Mrs Cs policy was well over fifteen years ago. Lloyds hasnt been able to 
give us any paperwork from the sale. But given how long ago the sale was, the fact Lloyds 
hasnt any paperwork from the time isnt surprising. And so this doesnt on its own make  me 
think Lloyds most likely did something  wrong or mis-sold the policy.
The PPI covered Mr C for accident, sickness and unemployment. Mr and Mrs C have said 
the PPI wasnt explained  and they thought they had to take it. But given the time that has 
passed, I wouldnt expect  Mr and Mrs C to remember or vividly  recall everything that was 
discussed. 
In view of this, Mr and Mrs Cs recollections  arent  enough on their own to make me think 
Lloyds misled them. And, bearing  in mind what Ive said above about the lack of paperwork, 
there isnt anything else to make  me think Lloyds misled Mr and Mrs C - or to make me think 
Lloyds didnt make  clear to them that the PPI was optional. Also I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest to me that Lloyds added PPI without Mr and Mrs Cs agreement. Taking everything 
into account  and theres very little to go on - what I have isnt enough to persuade me that 
Mr and Mrs C werent  given  a choice about  the PPI before  they agreed to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI so it had to make sure it was right for Mr and Mrs C. And from 
what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example Mr C  who 
had the cover - wasnt affected by any of the limits on or exclusions to the cover. The cover  
helped protect a mortgage   a significant liability  secured  on Mr and Mrs Cs home. It would 
have paid out on top of Mr Cs work benefits and left Mr and Mrs Cs savings available for 
other expenses at what could be a difficult time if Mr C had suffered redundancy or was too 
sick to work. And although Mr and Mrs C have said their family couldve helped  pay their 
mortgage instead, other peoples circumstances and ability to help can change.  So, with all 
this in mind,  I think Mr and Mrs C had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I havent seen enough to say that they didnt want  the cover  when they 
took it. And if something went wrong, it seems  like the cover would have been useful, for the 
reasons Ive given  above. I also havent  seen anything to make me think  the cover wasnt  
affordable at the time.  Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs C off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN82843452Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs C have said about Mr C having a lump sum injury  plan 
and an income protection plan to cover  lost pay in case of sickness. But the details theyve 
been able to remember dont persuade me that the plans wouldve made up in full for any 
loss of income Mr C might  suffer due unemployment  or sickness.  And if benefits from the 
existing plans did overlap with the PPI cover, what I have doesnt make me think that Mr C 
couldnt have  benefited fully from the PPI as well as any existing benefit. 
So, bearing in mind what Ive already said above, having  thought  about all Mr and Mrs Cs 
points, including  what theyve about their existing  arrangements, these points dont  change  
my decision.  I appreciate  this may disappoint Mr and Mrs C. I thank them for their patience 
and the prompt  assistance theyve given  us throughout our investigation of their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8284345