K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) did not inform  her of 
potential cancellation  charges when  she called to cancel her Home  Care policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 November 2019  which sets out the 
background to Mrs Rs dispute and forms part of this final decision. 
I said I wasnt intending on upholding Mrs Rs complaint because I thought she ought 
reasonably to have  known  that a cancellation  charge would apply, given  that she had work 
carried out under the policy soon after it had renewed. I also thought  the amount of the 
charge that would apply was made clear in the policy terms and conditions. So I didnt 
consider it was unreasonable for British Gas to now charge Mrs R for the services  they had 
provided.
I invited both parties to submit further comments in response to my provisional decision.  
However, Mrs R did not respond, and British Gas said they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that neither  of the parties had anything further to add, I see no reason to depart from 
the reasoning  set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019. 
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs R complains that British  Gas Insurance Limited  (British Gas) did not inform  her of potential  
cancellation charges when she called  to cancel her Home Care  policy.
background
Mrs R held a Home Care policy  with British Gas for several years, which covered her boiler against 
breakdown and also included  an annual  service. It most recently renewed  on 22 July 2018. Mrs R 
contacted British Gas on 25 July 2018  and arranged  for her annual service  to be completed the next 
day. This was carried out successfully, but Mrs R subsequently contacted British Gas a few days  later 
on 1 August 2018 to cancel the policy  as she thought it was too expensive.
Ref: DRN81809572Mrs R was told the policy  had been cancelled  with immediate effect, and was even informed  that she 
would be due a refund  of £27.35. However, British  Gas got in contact six months later informing her 
that she owed them £65 in cancellation charges as a result  of the service  carried out on 26 July 2018.  
Mrs R refused to pay this as British Gas did not tell her she would  be charged when she called to 
cancel the policy. She says that if they had told her, she may not have cancelled  the policy in the first 
place.
British Gas apologised as they said the invoice for the cancellation charge  was late. But they said that 
their policy documentation  clearly sets out the relevant  cancellation charges if work is completed after 
the policy  renewal, which was also explained on the renewal documents sent to Mrs R before she 
called to cancel. As a result,  they considered the charge was justified. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think it was reasonable to expect Mrs R to have read 
the entire policy document, and thinks  they ought to have made it clear to her on the phone that she 
would be charged. The investigator  recommended that British Gas withdraw their request for 
payment, and also said they should pay £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused.  
British Gas disagreed,  so the complaint has been passed to me to determine. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not intending to uphold it.
Mrs Rs policy renewed on 22 July 2018.  British Gas sent her a renewal notice on 17 June 2018, 
which set out the renewal price and also said that a cancellation charge may apply if the policyholder  
has had any work carried out:
How do I cancel the contract?
You can cancel your product at any timeWell give you a full refund if you cancel within 14 
days. If you cancel after 14 days, a pro rata refund will be provided. If weve carried out any 
work for you, you may have  to pay cancellation charges.
British Gas say that the policy terms and conditions  would  have been sent to Mrs R upon renewal,  
and I havent seen anything  that would  suggest the policy  booklet would  not have been sent. In the 
terms and conditions,  it states: 
Cancellation charges
If you or we cancel your agreement or any products and weve already completed work for 
you since you bought or renewed them,  you may have to pay cancellation  charges.
It then sets out a table  of the type of work  completed, and the charge that will be levied if it has been 
carried out within the contractual period:
Annual  service or first service - £65.
So, given that its likely Mrs R would have received  both the renewal  notice and policy documentation 
 and given that she had an annual service carried out after the policy had renewed  I think  she 
ought reasonably to have known that a cancellation  charge would apply. I appreciate  British Gas 
could have done more  to explain this to her when she called to cancel the policy. But it was her 
responsibility to check the terms  and conditions  of the policy. And given that the work had only very 
recently been carried out and the invoice was late, it wouldnt be surprising if the information had not 
been available to the agent at the point Mrs R called  to cancel.
Ref: DRN81809573But even if British Gas ought to have known  about the recent service, I do not think it would  be fair 
and reasonable to expect them to provide their services  for free as a result of an administrative  error  
particularly when Mrs R had already received a partial  refund. And given that the policy terms and 
conditions state the amount  that will be charged, I do not consider it unreasonable for them  to now 
charge Mrs R for the services theyve  provided.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN8180957