K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car supplied  to him through a Conditional Sale Agreement  with Close  
Brothers Motor Finance  trading  as Close Brothers Limited (CBL) isnt of satisfactory quality. 
He would like the car serviced, the timing  belt changed and the rear indicators  repaired.
background
Mr C says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement  with CBL on 25 January 2019 for a 10 
year old car with mileage  of 87,517.
Mr C says when he took out the Conditional Sale Agreement  it was agreed the car would be 
serviced and the timing  belt would be changed  but again this wasnt done.
He says there are numerous other problems with the car  there is a bald tyre, a rear 
indicator doesnt  work, the front near side wheel is worn and makes  a noise, the drivers  seat 
belt doesnt retract,  the gearbox keeps jumping, the packing in the drivers seat is coming 
out, there  is mould  on the back seat,  both remote key fobs are falling apart and the service 
book doesnt have the last service stamp.
Mr C said he had a report from the manufacturer stating the wheel bearings and timing  belt 
need to be replaced.
CBL said as Mr C complained about  faults  within 30 days of having  the car it was up to it to 
show faults werent present at the point of sale. It found there was no evidence that replacing 
the timing belt or a full service were  offered  at the point of sale. It confirmed there were no 
faults with the timing  belt due to the mileage.  And that the dealer offered to take back the car 
to look at the lamp; and wheel bearing  faults with a view to repair but Mr H declined  this and 
chose to take the car to a third party garage  himself instead.
my provisional  findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I found:-
-Mr C took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with CBL and complained about 
problems with the car six days after getting  it. He complained  about  issues with rear 
tyre, wheel  bearings, lamp, seat belt and the fact the timing belt hadnt  been changed 
prior to him getting the car.
-CBL acknowledged  that as Mr C raised problems within the firs 30 days  of the 
agreement the onus was on it to show that there were  no problems at the point of 
sale.
-There was no evidence of a problem with, or an agreement to, replace the timing belt 
or to fully service  the car before  Mr C got it. 
-There was evidence  that the dealership offered to look at the car and repair any 
faults that might have  been present at the point of sale.  I found this to be a 
reasonable solution.
-Mr C chose not to have the dealership  repair the car but instead had some  repairs 
carried out at a third party garage. 
Ref: DRN88960282-Mr C lives a considerable distance  from the dealer so I found it might not have been 
that convenient for him to return  the car for inspection. I felt that without an inspection 
of the car by the dealer it was hard to know if any of the issues Mr C raised were 
present at the point of sale or not.
-I was unclear why CBL didnt arrange  an independent inspection of the car at a 
garage convenient to Mr C given Mr C raised issues  within  30 days of having the car 
-On clarification CBL told us that it proposed  an inspection but this was withdrawn as 
the Mr C had already  completed repairs without its involvement. It felt this removed 
its right to inspect as the car was no longer  faulty. 
-There was no benefit in requesting an inspection of Mr Cs car now since  he had had 
it for over a year therefore it would be hard to identify any point of sale issues.
-Mr C gave us some information from the manufacturer which  stated the timing belt 
should be changed every ten years or after 150,000  miles whichever is the sooner. 
-As Mr Cs car was 10 years  old when he got it. I understood why Mr C felt the belt 
shouldve been replaced. But I found  no evidence  of an actual problem with the 
timing belt. And I noted the car had only 87,517 miles on the clock.  It had also 
passed its two previous  MOTS  on 6 April 2018 and 15 January 2019  and no issues 
were identified  with the timing  belt. 
-Mr C provided  evidence  in the form of photographs and videos of   problems with the 
front nearside wheel,  the drivers seat,  damage  to the paint work, bare cables with 
tape around them  and damaged key fobs. I concluded these showed wear,  tear and 
repairs that should be expected with a used car. I didnt feel they evidenced  
substantive issues,  present  at the point  of sale that Mr C could reasonably expect 
CBL to cover the costs of.
-Had there been any issues with the tyres  or seat belts I would have expected these 
to have been noted in the MOT but they werent.  So I couldnt conclude  any issues  
with those were present  at the point  of sale.
-Mr C provided  no evidence  of the rear indicator not working or the car jumping. He 
thought the jumping  was a problem with the auto box but didnt evidence this.
-The video evidence  of the car making a noise didnt appear evidence  a particular 
issue to me.
-A used  car with significant mileage could  be expected to have a reasonable amount 
of wear, tear and previous  repairs  carried  out. 
-In the customer notes there was a reference to Mr C being offered  £200 as a gesture 
of goodwill. And to the fact that Mr C had evidenced problems  with the car although 
there was no further detail about  this.
-It would  be reasonable for CBL to pay the £200 previously offered. It seemed to me 
that CBL could have  made more effort to offer an independent inspection since the 
onus was on it to prove any faults werent present at the point of sale. However  I 
Ref: DRN88960283thought Mr C didnt  help by going  ahead and engaging directly with a third party  
garage
At this point I asked  both parties to consider  the offer of £200 CBL had previously made. 
This was to try to avoid further  delay in dealing with Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C wasnt happy with this suggested offer. He said he had to recently pay £930  for the car 
to pass its MOT. This covered work on the discs, break  pads and cambelt. He said other 
repairs were also needed including  work  on the rear under tray and the damaged nearside 
which rattled on the underneath bodywork when pulling away.  He said he had paid £45 for a 
valet but still had problems with mould on the seats and had been quoted £55 for each 
second hand front seat and £140 for a rear second hand seat. He said there was noise from 
the semi  auto box which jumped into first gear and that he has been quoted  £700-£1500  to 
resolve this on a car such as his. Finally  he said he had to pay for a re-wire of the near rear 
side light unit.
Mr C also said he agreed to buy the car for the amount he did on the basis it came with a full 
service and the cambelt would be changed. He said the CBL changed its mind about this 
work. 
Mr C wanted CBL to either  pay the cost of the bills for repair or take this amount off his 
outstanding account. He also suggested CBL could exchange the car for another one.
CBL didnt feel it needed to pay £200.  It didnt feel it had done anything  wrong  as Mr C went  
ahead with repairs before  an inspection could  be done. It asked for a further explanation as 
to why I was considering awarding £200.
Given Mr Cs lengthy response, and CBLs request for clarity  on my proposed  redress I 
decided it was sensible to do a provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and CBL have responded with further  comments to my provisional decision.
In addition to the points  Mr C already raised, which I have listed  above, he provided me with 
evidence of the service  costs incurred for his car to pass its MOT. And provided evidence  of 
the broken key fob along with other  information  I had already  seen.
I accept Mr C has had a range of problems with his car which  has cost him some time and 
money to resolve.  Unfortunately  as Mr C bought a ten year old car with over 87,000  miles on 
the clock I think he could expect some  wear, tear and repairs  to be necessary. However I 
dont feel he has given  any proof to show that any of the problems he has had were present 
or developing at the point of sale for which CBL would be liable. 
Mr C has also not given  me any new evidence to show he had an agreement for certain 
work to be done  to the car before he got it. So on that basis  I cant reasonably  conclude  
there was such an agreement that I could now expect  CBL to honour.
Ref: DRN88960284Mr C has also told us he was involved in an accident  recently  and as a result hurt his back 
and shoulders  for which he would  like compensation. He says that he feels  he was pinned in 
by the seatbelt  which  pushed him into the faulty  seat with the metal  frame digging into him. 
Ive no reason to disbelieve what Mr C has told us but I note he hasnt given us any 
evidence. I dont think I can reasonably ask CBL to compensate Mr C for any injury he 
sustained during an accident.  CBL did offer to inspect and make good any repairs it was 
liable for but Mr C chose  not to do this and to arrange his own repairs. So I have no 
evidence to show that CBL was directly or indirectly responsible for any injuries Mr C 
suffered.
I think its unfortunate that when Mr C first had problems with the car he didnt let the 
dealership inspect it. I think its offer to do so and to make good  any faults that were identified 
as present or developing at the point of sale was reasonable and what  I would have 
expected it to offer. 
Although Mr C has evidenced repairs to his car he hasnt given any evidence to show 
problems present or developing at the point of sale.  So on that basis I dont feel I can 
reasonably expect CBL to cover the cost of the repairs Mr C has incurred,  to  reduce his 
outstanding bill by this amount or to exchange  his car.
CBL didnt accept it should  pay the £200 I recommended when we contacted  it informally 
prior to a provisional  decision being  issued. It said it didnt feel it had done anything  wrong.  It 
asked for more clarification of the reasoning for potentially  awarding £200.
In response to my provisional decision CBL said it always  approaches dealerships first when 
issues arise particularly when issues arise very early on in an agreement. It said it doesnt 
want to waste time on an independent  inspection  if the dealership is willing to repair  and /or 
assist without any point  of sale evidence. That doesnt seem unreasonable  to me.
It said in this case after discussion  with the dealership it went back to the customer  but found  
he had already carried out repairs to the car. It felt there was then no point in having an 
inspection as it would be hard to prove if faults  were present or developing at the point of 
sale.
However it said it had offered £200  compensation as a gesture of goodwill during the 
complaint process  as part of its final decision. So it seems it is still happy to pay this sum. I 
cant see any evidence CBL offered this in its final response letter.  And whilst several 
references to the potential  offer of £200 are made in the customer notes  it seems  this was 
never followed through to a mutual  conclusion.
I have looked  again at CBLs customer notes. I can see that CBL spoke  to the dealer on 31 
January 2019  and went back  to Mr C on the same day to tell him to take the car back to the 
dealer and that any repairs linked to the point of sale would  be repaired. CBL then called 
Mr C for an update on 4 February 2019 but was unable to contact him. It called again on 6 
February 2019 by which time it seems Mr C had already had repairs  done  on his car. So I 
can see there was limited opportunity for CBL to offer an independent inspection. And I dont 
feel asking the dealer  to look at the car in the first instance was unreasonable.
However the customer notes do show that £200 was considered as a suitable payment to 
make on the basis Mr C evidenced some problems.  I accept at the time Mr C changed  his 
mind and chose not to accept that payment. It wasnt clear  to me, as now seems the case, 
that CBL had left that offer open. Looking at all the information I think that is a reasonable 
Ref: DRN88960285payment as a gesture of goodwill. Whilst I dont  think  that Mr C helped the situation by 
arranging his own repairs I think its clear  that he did have some  issues with his car soon 
after getting it for which some compensation would  be appropriate
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  Close  Brothers  Limited should pay Mr C £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8896028