K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1995 
alongside a credit card. Mrs P says Barclays Bank  UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs P says it wasnt made clear  the policy was optional. But based  on the evidence Ive 
seen I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this. I say this having  
seen a copy of the credit  card application  form Mrs P saw and signed.  In this there is a 
section for PPI where there is a tick in the box to agree to the cover, but there  is nothing  
here to suggest  the PPI had to be taken out. Mrs P signed this document  so I think this 
reflected what she wanted at the time. 
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs P says the PPI was unsuitable for her because she was entitled to generous  sick pay 
from her employer and she wouldve had no difficulty maintaining  her repayments. Mrs P 
initially told us she had 6 months full sick pay followed by half pay. We contacted her 
representative to ask how long her half pay entitlement wouldve continued for. However  it 
responded to say Mrs P was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay  so Ive relied  on this 
information to make my decision. The PPI wouldve covered 10% of Mrs Ps outstanding 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months   which  wouldve  been  in addition to her sick pay and, 
based on what her representative  has said, for longer than her sick pay entitlement  wouldve 
lasted. And so she couldve used these funds  for other expenses. Mrs P also told us she 
didnt have any savings  or other means to make the repayments. So overall I think  the PPI 
wouldve been useful  and I dont think her sick pay entitlement meant  the policy wasnt 
suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because:  
Ref: DRN88644892Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Mrs P, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8864489