K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2005 with 
a loan. The loan included  an amount to pay for the PPI policy.  Mr R says Northern Bank 
Limited (trading as Danske Bank) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree that a phone call took place when this policy was sold.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of a sales  script that Northern  Bank has said their adviser would 
have followed during this sale. In my opinion, based on what  we know more widely, 
if the sales script was followed, the adviser  would have made it clear that PPI was 
optional before getting Mr Rs consent  to add the policy.
But due to the time thats passed  since the sale, no call recording is available.           
So I dont  know if the script was indeed followed.
But Ive also seen a copy of an example loan agreement that Northern Bank have 
said is representative of what Mr R wouldve been sent after the phone  call. I think  its 
more likely than not that this agreement is representative of what Mr R would have 
seen as its dated around the time he took out his PPI policy.  This document, in my 
opinion makes it clear that PPI is optional as there are Yes and No options  for PPI 
and it requires Mr R to sign separately  to confirm that he wants  PPI.
On balance, based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think that its more  likely 
than not that Northern  Bank made Mr R aware that PPI was optional   before he 
agreed to take it out.
Northern Bank recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.   
I cant safely say if the PPI costs were  made  clear during the telephone call. But 
when Ive considered the example loan agreement, the cost of the policy was shown 
on the example  loan agreement  including the amount of the premium,  the interest 
payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I think Mr R would have understood 
how much  the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr R made a successful claim 
he couldve  got back quite  a bit more than he paid for it. 
Ref: DRN81413022Mr R wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  I dont  know if Northern Bank  thought about this when it recommended 
the policy, or if it explained the situation clearly to Mr R. But I havent seen anything  
to suggest he thought  hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant  the policy 
wasnt right for him  or that better information  about  this wouldve stopped him 
buying it.
Its possible the other information  Northern Bank  gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to     
Mr R.
But Northern Bank will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
When the policy was sold, Northern Bank  expected to get a high level of commission  
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr R 
about that. Because Northern Bank didnt tell Mr R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Northern Bank has basically offered to pay back the amount of 
commission and profit share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium  - and I think 
that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said, but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) has to pay back  to Mr R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Northern Bank  should  
also pay back to Mr R any extra interest  he paid because of that.
Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) should pay back  to Mr R the extra he paid 
each month  on the loan because the commission and profit share was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium - including any extra Mr R paid if the loan was paid off early. Northern Bank 
Limited (trading as Danske Bank) should  also pay Mr R 8%* simple interest on the extra paid 
each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited (trading as Danske Bank)  does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank)  does  have to pay back  to Mr R any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN81413023Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8141302