K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about ReAssure Limiteds  administration of his income  protection  claim.
background
Mr R held an income protection policy, the aim of which was to pay benefit after a waiting 
period of six months if he couldnt work because of accident or illness.  The policy included 
indexation, which meant the benefit and premium  increased each year in line with inflation. 
After being injured in an accident,  Mr R stopped work. He notified  ReAssure of his injuries, 
but his claim didnt proceed for some  time.  Once  his claim had been accepted, his benefit 
payment was less than he was expecting. That was because  ReAssure  hadnt  applied 
indexation to his policy between November 2009  and November  2012  in error. Also, the 
copy policy terms and conditions ReAssure  had previously sent him made him think  he was 
entitled to a higher benefit amount. He therefore made a complaint. 
ReAssure upheld Mr Rs complaint in part. It accepted it had sent him the wrong policy  
terms. It offered him £200 compensation for this. Mr R didnt accept  this offer and brought 
his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. She thought  ReAssure ought  to 
recalculate the benefit taking into account the indexation that should have taken place (less 
the additional cost of it), and pay interest on that. She also noted ReAssure hadnt paid 
interest on the original  backdated benefit payment made to Mr R, so she also recommended 
it pay interest on that. Finally, after discussions with ReAssure  about its poor customer  
service, she thought it should  pay an additional  £300 compensation, taking this up to £500.
ReAssure agreed  with the adjudicators  recommendations, but Mr R didnt. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me to consider.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold this 
complaint and for the same  reasons  as the adjudicator.
indexation
When Mr R took out the policy, he opted  for indexation. That meant both the benefit  and 
premium would increase  each year in line with inflation.
In December 2011, ReAssure advised  Mr R that it hadnt applied  indexation to his policy 
since 2009 in error.  It said the indexation  would restart from his next policy  anniversary 
(November 2012). The letter said if he had any questions about this, he should contact it. 
Mr R thought the letter meant the backdated indexation  would  apply from November 2012. 
When this didnt happen, he contacted ReAssure about the matter in 2013.  ReAssures  
response was that a business decision had been made not to apply any backdated 
increases for customers who hadnt  contacted it at the time of receiving the 2011  letter.  
Ref: DRN82365602I agree  with the adjudicator that ReAssures response here was unfair.  ReAssures 
December 2011  letter didnt make it clear that Mr R needed to contact it to have the 
indexation backdated. I think it should  have  therefore arranged  this when he contacted  it in 
2013. 
The adjudicator recommended ReAssure  recalculate Mr Rs benefit payments taking into 
account the indexation that should have  taken place between  2009 and 2012. She thought it 
should then pay the backdated amount  due (less  the additional cost of the indexation), plus 
interest. I think  thats reasonable. I see that ReAssure has accepted  the adjudicators 
recommendations, and Im satisfied this places Mr R back in the financial position he would 
have been in, had ReAssure not made  the error. 
policy terms
Mr R took out the policy in 1991. 
In 2009, ReAssure sent Mr R a copy  of the policy terms. It also sent him a further copy  in 
2015, after hed stopped  work. The copy policy terms included  an NHS Cover  Benefit clause 
under the heading Monthly  Limitations  that says:
Whilst the Insured  is in receipt  of half-pay Benefits under the NHS Sick Pay Scheme then 
one half of the NHS Cover Benefits calculated by reference to this Condition will be 
payable.
ReAssure has confirmed  the above  clause  was added into the policy terms and conditions in 
1993 and applied to policies taken  out after that date.  Unfortunately,  Mr R interpreted the 
clause to mean he would receive one half of his half sick pay from the NHS.  
As I understand it, this policy allows a doctor to choose an NHS Cover Benefit amount in 
order to cover their earnings from the NHS. It also allows a doctor to choose a Personal 
Cover Benefit in order to cover their earnings  from private practice. 
I accept the NHS Cover  Benefit  clause would have been confusing  for Mr R. But I dont think  
he could have had an expectation from the clause alone what may be paid to him whilst he 
was receiving half sick pay from the NHS. For that, hed need to know what the NHS Cover  
Benefits were under the policy.  I assume  that information would be on the policy schedule of 
an insured person who held this later policy.  
I see that when  Mr R was sent the policy terms in 2009, he was also sent a copy of the Plan 
Certificate. I understand  this is simply a copy of the policy  schedule.  Mr Rs policy  schedule 
makes no mention of NHS Cover Benefits. Instead, it confirms the monthly benefit and also 
includes the monthly limitations that applied to his policy.
ReAssure has provided Mr Rs correct  policy terms from 1991 and they dont include the 
NHS Cover clause. Im therefore satisfied ReAssure was correct not to apply this clause to 
the claim,  as Mr R didnt  have NHS  Cover  Benefit.  
However, by sending Mr R the wrong  policy terms on two occasions, I accept this would 
have been confusing for him. Ive addressed this later.
Ref: DRN82365603Mr R says that when he was sent the wrong  policy document  in 2009, he decided to 
continue with his policy because of the NHS  Cover  Benefit clause. He explains that when he 
took out the policy in 1991,  it protected around 50% of his salary.  But by 2009, his salary  had 
increased and so even taking into account indexation, the policy  then only protected  around 
21% of his salary.  He says that after reviewing  the policy terms sent to him in 2009, the NHS 
Cover clause meant he felt protected  to a reasonable extent as it would give him an 
additional £12,247. And that if hed seen his correct policy document,  he would have either  
asked ReAssure to increase  the benefit amount  (though ReAssure has since confirmed that 
wouldnt have been possible), or taken out cover elsewhere. 
These policies typically  aim to protect  around  50% of someones income. I appreciate  Mr R 
was apparently quite  significantly under-insured in 2009 because of the increases to his 
salary. But as Ive said,  I dont think the NHS  Cover Benefit clause on its own would have 
given Mr R an expectation of a particular amount he might receive in the event of a claim, 
without knowing what the NHS Cover  Benefit  amount was under the policy (which as Ive 
said, Mr R didnt have). 
Even if I were to accept  that the clause led Mr R to believe in 2009 that he would be entitled  
to half of his half sick pay from the NHS, I see that would still leave Mr R under-insured 
(based on the figures hes given us), as this would still only protect  around  34% of his salary 
at the time. 
Its also the case that the NHS sick pay scheme  is to pay full pay for the first six months of 
absence, followed  by half pay for the following six months. Theres no further sick pay after 
that. Therefore,  even  if Mr R did think he would  be entitled  to an additional £12,247 whilst in 
receipt of NHS half sick pay, this would only be payable for that six month period. After that 
time, he would  be back to only having 21% of his salary  protected  and would therefore still 
be significantly under-insured.
I appreciate Mr Rs point that the NHS  ill health retirement pension would provide two-thirds 
of his pension  benefit to normal  pension  age, but to have  this paid he would need  to be 
permanently unable to work, which is a stricter test of incapacity than he would need to meet 
under his ReAssure  policy. So I dont think this could be relied  upon  as a definite  source  of 
income in the event  of long-term incapacity. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that if Mr R had been  sent a copy of the correct policy terms in 
2009, he would have sought to top up his benefit cover elsewhere.  
customer service
I agree  with the adjudicator that ReAssure has given Mr R poor customer service on a 
number of occasions. It made the error with the indexation, though as above, Im satisfied its 
now agreed to put that right. It also sent Mr R the wrong policy documents  on two occasions  
which Ive agreed  was confusing. 
Also, I see that Mr R emailed ReAssure  in November 2015  to notify it of his injuries.  
ReAssure called him the following day, but the call discontinued because  of a poor 
connection. Mr R emailed  ReAssure again  a few weeks later to say he hadnt  had a 
response. Nothing further happened on the claim. Whilst I appreciate Mr R could have done 
more to chase  the claim, its also the case that he had a brain injury and has since  explained 
to ReAssure he was having cognitive  problems at the time. ReAssure had been told about  
Ref: DRN82365604Mr Rs injuries  and I think it should have done more to get back  in contact  with him about his 
claim.  
ReAssure didnt start looking into Mr Rs claim until he contacted it again in October 2016. 
The claim was accepted in April 2017  and benefit  was backdated to the date it became 
payable after the end of the six month  waiting period.  However, our adjudicator noticed that 
ReAssure hadnt  paid interest on the backdated benefit. She thought  it should  have done,  
which ReAssure has now accepted. For completeness,  I agree. 
ReAssure offered Mr R £200 compensation for its poor customer  service.  After discussions 
with ReAssure, our adjudicator thought  total compensation  of £500 would be more suitable. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr R doesnt feel its an appropriate amount, I think  this is reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr R has raised  concerns about ReAssures wider treatment of its customers.  However, we 
arent the financial regulator and our role is to consider individual disputes between  
consumers and financial businesses. I therefore  cant comment  on this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require ReAssure Limited  to do the 
following:
recalculate the benefit owed to Mr R taking into account the indexation that should 
have been applied between 2009  and 2012.  A deduction can be made for the 
additional premium  that should have also been charged. Interest at the rate of 8% 
simple per annum  should then be added from the date the benefit should  have been 
paid, to the date of settlement*. 
add interest to the benefit payments already made to Mr R. This should be at the rate 
of 8% simple per annum from the date each payment should have been paid to the 
date it paid the backdated settlement. Interest on this sum of interest  should  then be 
paid at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of payment of the backdated 
settlement to the date of settlement*.
pay an additional £300 compensation.
*If ReAssure  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should also give Mr R a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8236560