K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc hasnt dealt with a claim under his 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Mr B says he was approached in a supermarket car park by someone who said hed hit their 
car. Mr B says there was no accident. 
Following this incident, Mr B contacted his insurer, RSA, because  he was concerned that the 
person whod approached him was trying to make  a fraudulent insurance claim against him. 
He wanted RSA to investigate  the incident. 
RSA noted what  Mr B had told them, made some enquiries with the supermarket in question,  
asked for the CCTV and took photographs of Mr Bs car. But said, as they never received a 
claim from the third party, there  wasnt anything  else they could do. And that Mr B should  
pursue the matter with the police.  
RSA did accept that some of their correspondence with Mr B hadnt been  as clear as it could
have been, so they offered him £50 in recognition of any inconvenience  the confusion  had 
caused. 
Our adjudicator investigated Mr Bs complaint. He said, in summary, that there  wasnt 
anything more RSA could have done to assist Mr B as the third party had never  gone  on to 
make a claim. He thought the £50 that had been  offered  in recognition  of the service Mr B 
had received was fair. 
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators findings. He thought the adjudicator had misinterpreted  
his complaint. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaints been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  RSA have 
treated Mr B unfairly by not investigating  what happened further. Ill explain why. 
In his response to our adjudicator, Mr B said he was unhappy that the adjudicator  had used 
the term he says in relation to what happened in the supermarket carpark.  Ive used the 
same term.  This isnt because  I doubt  what Mr B has said,  but because its a fact that Mr B 
has told us that he was approached by someone  who claimed that he had hit a car 
belonging to them. Im sure that was very worrying for him as he says it wasnt  true and also 
because of what hes told us about his health  and the circumstances of the incident in the 
car park, which involved a number of people including members of staff from the 
supermarket. 
But what  Im considering here is Mr Bs complaint about RSA  hes unhappy  that they 
havent fully investigated the incident.  Hes also unhappy that hes no longer allowed to go to 
that branch of the supermarket. 
The supermarkets  decision  to ask Mr B not to use that branch of their stores and anything 
the police  have, or havent, done isnt something we have the power to consider. So Ive 
Ref: DRN88184182noted what Mr B has told us about these things but I cant make  any findings about  the 
actions of those  organisations. And I dont  think RSA are responsible for investigating  those 
things either.  
Ive looked at Mr Bs policy and it provides  cover  for specified events, for example if he 
damages someone else property. However  in this case, while I recognise how upsetting it 
must have  been  for him to have been accused  of being in an accident, there wasnt  a claim 
made against his policy. The third party  hasnt  tried to benefit from what  she alleged  
happened through RSA so there wasnt a claim for RSA to look into. So Ive thought about 
what RSA did in relation  to Mr Bs concerns  and whether  or not they should have done  
anything more. 
When Mr B first contacted  RSA, they noted what hed told them and contacted the 
supermarket to try and get the CCTV. I dont think there was any obligation  to do this since 
they hadnt received a claim but, in order to help strengthen their (and Mr Bs) position if a 
claim was made, RSA took these steps anyway.  Which I think  was reasonable. And Im 
pleased to see RSA said they would investigate  if a claim  was made. 
There was a delay  in RSA arranging for photographs to be taken of Mr Bs car. And I can 
understand - since Mr B had responded to RSA saying  hed be happy for someone  to come 
and photograph the car so promptly - why hed be concerned that it had taken about a month 
to arrange. But, as the adjudicator said, there wasnt an ongoing claim so I dont think the 
delay caused  any disadvantage to Mr B. RSA also didnt answer a question Mr B had asked 
them in his email  of 26 September 2018. RSA offered Mr B £50 in recognition  of this. And I 
think this is a fair reflection of the inconvenience caused by them  not answering Mr Bs 
question. 
I understand Mr Bs concern that the person who approached him the car park that day was 
trying to make a fraudulent claim. But, unless that person  made a claim to RSA (or tried to), 
theres nothing more RSA should have done.  If Mr Bs concerned that a criminal offence was 
committed, then that would  be something for the police to consider. If the police have 
decided not to investigate,  thats not something I think  RSA should do instead.  
my final decision
I understand Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc has offered Mr B £50 for his distress and 
inconvenience. I conclude  thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So my final decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc should pay Mr B £50 if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.  
Eleanor Rippengale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8818418