K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading  as Audi Financial  
Services) acted unfairly by terminating  his contract.
background
Mr M had a Hire Purchase Agreement with Audi Financial services  for a car he purchased  in 
September 2016. He says he made the payments every month for over two years, but 
suffered from a short-term  cash flow issue in 2018 when a debtor who owed him a 
substantial amount of money went bankrupt. He says both he, and his lawyer, contacted 
Audi Financial Services to ask for more time to make a payment as he was due to receive 
further income in September  2018.  As it was, the incoming funds were delayed until October 
2018, but Mr M says Audi Financial Services had terminated his contract by then. 
Mr M says Audi Financial Services terminated the agreement without taking into account a 
letter from his lawyer  which asked  for a 28-day  extension on the payment date. He says he 
needs his car for work and that Audi Financial Services has negatively  impacted his credit  
file.
Audi Financial Services says it issued a default notice on 6 August 2018 for payments that 
were due in May, July and August. It says that, although Mr M initially  said he would make a 
payment by the end of August, he later advised  he couldnt make  a payment then but would 
clear the balance by 14 September 2018. When no payment was received, Audi Financial 
Services says it terminated the agreement on 18 September 2018.
Audi Financial Services acknowledged  it received an email from Mr Ms solicitor on 
14 September 2018 which requested a 28-day  extension.  It says this was responded  to on 
19 September with a request for a duplicate  as the signature didnt match the one on the 
agreement. It adds that even if the email  had been  worked before the termination date, the 
termination would still have gone  ahead as the extension request would not have been 
granted due to three previous failed promises to pay.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged that 
a court  order  means that Mr M is now making  payments on the agreement,  but did not 
consider it was unreasonable for Audi Financial  Services to have  terminated  the agreement  
due to the ongoing arrears on the account.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that the court had ruled  in his favour and that Audi 
Financial Services were  clearly in breach of the contract by terminating it without responding 
to key communication. He adds that this has destroyed  his credit rating even though  he is 
now making regular  payments  of more than the contracted amounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to decide whether Audi Financial  Services has acted unfairly by terminating Mr Ms 
contract in the way that it did, Ive considered whether  the default notice was correctly issued 
and, subsequently, whether it was wrong to take the actions it did afterwards.
Ref: DRN89397262Issue of the default notice
Mr M took out the finance agreement in September 2016 and I acknowledge he says hed 
paid every month for the two years prior to the termination of the contract. But Ive looked at 
the statement  of account and I dont  find that to be the case. Mr M made his payments on 
time for the first year of the agreement, with the exception of May 2017, but he had a poor 
repayment record beyond  that. I say that because:
Mr Ms direct debit  was returned  every  month  between 1 September 2017 and 1 Sep 
2018;
Although Mr M made payments during that time,  the payments were consistently late 
and irregular;
Mr Ms account remained in arrears throughout the period, sometimes by as much  as 
three months;
In addition to the above, Mr M had also had default notices issued on another  Audi 
Financial Services agreement in August 2017  and February 2018.
Mr M was first issued with a default  notice on the account in March  2018, following non-
payment of January, February and March instalments, various  arrears  notices  and promises 
to pay that didnt materialise. But Mr M called Audi Financial Services  in April 2018, made 
payments on both his agreements  and agreed  a payment arrangement  for the remaining 
arrears. Although Mr M failed  to make the agreed additional payments, he called again at the 
beginning of May 2018 to make further payments  and explained that one of his debtors had 
gone bankrupt and owed him a significant  amount of money.
On 8 May 2018  Mr M then agreed  a further payment arrangement  for the arrears  to be paid 
over three months from June 2018. Although Mr M made the first payment, in July 2018 he 
failed to pay the second instalment of the payment arrangement and also missed the 
monthly contractual payment.  He then agreed  to make a part payment on 3 August 2018  
and said he would then also confirm when he could clear the arrears.
As neither the part payment nor the August  instalment was paid, Audi Financial Services  
issued a default notice on 6 August 2018.  It said Mr Ms agreement had arrears of £855.75  
and it requested this to be paid by 25 August 2018 to avoid termination of the contract.
I accept Mr M says he was in financial difficulties due to the bankruptcy  of one of his debtors 
and I have sympathy with the situation in which he found  himself, but I cant  say Audi 
Financial Services was wrong to issue the default  notice when it did. Mr Ms account had 
been in arrears for a year, Audi Financial  Services had already agreed repayment  plans with 
him to which  hed failed to adhere  and Mr M continued to miss payments hed promised to 
make.
Termination of the contract
I now need to consider  what  happened after the default notice  was issued and whether the 
decision to terminate the agreement was a fair one.
Mr M made further contact  with Audi Financial  Services on 20 August 2018  and explained 
that expected  funds  from a deal had not come through. He said he would make  a payment 
by the end of the week (24 August) but could not confirm  the amount. Audi Financial 
Services responded that it had noted  his intentions but it could not agree to an extension  
and could not hold off any actions  unless the default notice was satisfied.
Ref: DRN89397263No payment was received, but Mr M called again  on 28 August 2018  to say he would be 
receiving funds on 14 September 2018.  Audi Financial Services agreed to hold off any 
further action  until then. Mr Ms solicitor emailed  Audi Financial Services the same  day to 
confirm that Mr M intended  to clear the arrears  by 14 September, although it was explained  
to the firm that Mr M needed  to give his authorisation to discuss  the account.
On 14 September  Mr Ms solicitor wrote to request a further 28-day extension for the 
payment and also enclosed Mr Ms authority.
Audi Financial Services did not see the solicitors email until 19 September,  and had 
terminated the agreement a day earlier having already agreed to extend the payment date 
and having received no payment on 14 September 2018. It says that, even if it had seen the 
solicitors extension request email  earlier, the agreement would still have been terminated
and no extension granted due to multiple failed promises  to pay.
Given the default notice expired on 25 August 2018 and no payment had been received  by 
14 September 2018, despite having been granted an extension, I cant conclude  Audi 
Financial Services acted  unfairly by terminating  the agreement. Im also persuaded that 
Mr M would not have been granted a further extension had Audi Financial Services  seen his 
solicitors email prior to 18 September 2018.  I say that because originally Mr M was told an 
extension wasnt possible even though additional  time was subsequently granted.
So, for all the above  reasons, I dont find Audi Financial Services  was wrong to issue  the 
default notice  or to subsequently terminate  the agreement. I acknowledge that this had a 
negative impact on Mr Ms credit file, but the business is obliged  to provide an accurate 
reflection of the account status to credit reference agencies.  I accept  the court has now 
agreed to Mr M continuing with monthly payments on the account, but it does not follow  that 
Audi Financial Services acted unfairly  or unreasonably by doing  what  it did.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939726