K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained that MCE  Insurance Company Limited unreasonably increased his 
premium and consequently refused to pay him the correct market value of his motorbike 
following a theft under his motorbike policy.
background
Mr A told MCE that his motorbike had been  stolen on 22 February 2016 and that he wished 
to make a claim. MCE instructed another company to validate Mr As claim.
During this interview,  Mr A confirmed he didnt keep his bike in a garage. And that he had a 
motoring conviction  from 2014, which he hadnt  declared on buying  the policy.
MCE decided that had it known about these two issues, it would have charged him a higher 
premium by another £1,748.81 including  an administration fee.
Following this, MCE said it had become aware  that Mr A also had a previous theft claim in 
September 2014, which it said he hadnt  told them about. It said this increased his premium  
by £15,072.73, including  an administration fee.
In order to obtain the market value of Mr As motorbike,  MCE asked  for Mr As service  book. 
It then said because there was no service  history,  it would impose a 25% deduction from the 
value of Mr As motorbike. This amounted to the sum of £4,749.50  being deducted from the 
valuation.
Then MCE said that after deducting  the additional premium it was now charging Mr A and 
the policy excess, that exceeded the valuation of Mr As motorbike meaning it had nothing to 
pay Mr A for his claim. It said Mr A should  have paid a premium of £16,821.54.
Mr A complained. MCE reviewed its calculations  and said it had incorrectly  charged Mr A an 
administration fee for each issue. So it reduced  the premium  it thought  Mr A should pay by 
£421.50. That meant it was charging  Mr A £16.400.04 in premium  instead. It then decided to 
review its 25% deduction for the lack of a service  history  and decided  to waive that amount  
additionally. 
That meant MCE could  pay Mr A a total of £1,597.96 for the market value of his motorbike 
following the theft. It also said in view of its miscalculations, it would pay Mr A £150 
compensation.
Mr A remained unhappy  and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  thought it should 
be upheld and that MCE should pay Mr A the market value of his motorbike without any 
increase in premium,  plus interest of 8% per year from the date his claim should  have  been  
paid. She also thought  MCE  should pay Mr A a further £250  compensation. 
MCE didnt accept the adjudicators view so Mr As complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im now upholding this 
complaint and Ill now explain why.
Ref: DRN81580292In order to say that Mr A failed to disclose his motoring  conviction, a previous theft claim and 
that his motorbike wasnt kept in a garage, MCE needs to show what questions  it asked  Mr A 
when he was buying the policy.
Whilst it has produced a copy of Mr As application, it hasnt produced  the questions  it asked  
so like the adjudicator  Im not in a position  to assess whether or not Mr A took reasonably  
care in answering those  questions. Therefore since MCE hasnt been to show  it what  it 
would have asked  Mr A, its only right, that I hold this in Mr As favour.  Therefore, as theres 
no evidence to show he didnt take reasonable care, I consider  that Mr A did take reasonable 
care in answering the questions asked of him when he was buying  this policy. Consequently  
that means I dont consider Mr A misrepresented  any facts  when applying for this policy.
This all comes under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA). In this Act, consumers have a duty to take reasonable care not to make any 
misrepresentation to an insurer.  But thats  only in response to any questions the insurers  
asks. So without knowing what  questions MCE asked Mr A, none  of what  MCE is now 
relying on can be called a qualifying misrepresentation. Under the Act, this means MCE 
cant take any actions  against Mr A even if the information it was provided with was incorrect 
because it hasnt shown  any of this comes under a qualifying  misrepresentation.
Leaving that aside, the increases to Mr As premium that MCE decided  to impose on Mr A 
arent remedies available to it in any event  under the Act. The Act simply doesnt permit 
MCE to increase the premium amount in this way. Its remedies if there  had been any 
qualifying misrepresentations (which I consider there arent) are to void the policy if it can 
show it wouldnt have offered Mr A any policy, returning the premium  paid back to Mr A. If it 
can show a higher premium would  have payable, then its only entitled  to reduce the amount 
of the claim in the same proportion between the amount of the premium  that was paid and 
the amount of the premium that should  have been  charged.
Additionally, MCE must be able to show precisely how any premium increase was justified in 
relation to its underwriting criteria. It hasnt been  able to do that, as it said it hasnt retained 
that underwriting criteria  for 2015. Therefore,  I consider it hasnt proved to me that what it 
said Mr A should have paid in premium  is either  correct based on its underwriting  criteria  at 
the time,  or consequently  reasonable. On that basis I consider those intended premium 
increases arent fair or reasonable. And in any event,  its not permitted under CIDRA for 
MCE to charge Mr A these increases and reduce his claim amount subsequently. Further,  
the premium increases  do in any event appear  to be grossly excessive in my view.
In conclusion, MCE hasnt  applied the provisions  of CIDRA correctly  and so consequently I 
consider it must pay Mr As claim in full paying  him the reasonable market  value of his 
motorbike. Given this has gone for on for such a considerable time, interest of 8% simple per 
year should  be added from the date his claim should have been paid to the date it now pays  
him.
I can see that MCE did offer to pay Mr A £150  compensation  given it applied several 
administration charges when it should  have only charged him one. However I consider its 
handling of Mr As claim has caused  Mr A a considerable amount of further inconvenience, 
trouble and upset,  so I consider it should  pay him a further £250  compensation, making  the 
total compensation it should pay Mr A to be £400.   
Ref: DRN81580293my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require MCE Insurance Company Limited  to do the following:
Pay Mr A the reasonable market value of his motorbike with no deductions.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date his claim ought to have been paid to 
the date its pays  him.*
Pay him a total of £400 compensation inclusive of the £150  it previously paid or 
offered him.
*If MCE Insurance Company Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should  
also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8158029