K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited wrongly sold him 
two endowment savings  plans  in 1994  and while it paid redress for one of these it should 
also do so on the other.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 18 January 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Neither party commented on that decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I am satisfied that this complaint should 
be upheld with compensation  as outlined in that decision.
Royal London should compare the return Mr B received when this plan matured in 2009 with 
what he would have  achieved via a suitable, flexible, low risk investment product.
To do this it should use the formula recommended by this service.  That is, it should  use an 
equal combination of the Bank of Englands returns on bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity  
and the returns  shown by the FTSE Private Investors Total Income Return  Index. If this 
comparison shows a loss it should  pay this and add 8% simple interest per annum to this 
loss figure  from the date of maturity to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to 
pay compensation as outlined  above.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr B to accept or reject  my decision before 12 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited wrongly sold him two 
endowment savings  plans in 1994  and while it paid redress for one of these it should also do so on 
the other.
background
In 1994 Mr B was 17, single,  with no dependents and living at home with his parents.
Ref: DRN87992482He was advised to take out two savings plans, one for 10 years and the other for 15 years, both with a 
premium of £10.66. His premiums were invested in with-profits savings funds, generally considered 
fairly low risk.
Mr B complained that the illustrated returns were  completely misleading  as he received a fraction of 
these when both policies matured.
Royal London  said it felt it might not have been appropriate to recommend both savings  plans given 
his situation at the time, and offered redress in relation to the 10 year plan. It felt, however, that it 
would not have been inappropriate to recommend just one plan, the 15 year one.
An investigator at this service agreed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In order  to assess this complaint I have  taken account of the fact that Royal  London has paid redress 
for the 10 year policy  so I have solely considered whether  it would  have been reasonable advice to 
recommend taking out the single  15 year plan, particularly given the regulatory requirements  at the 
time.
I say this because the regulations were less detailed  than they are today. For example,  advisors did 
not necessarily  have  to consider the full range of alternatives when making a recommendation.  But 
they were required to provide "best advice" - meaning  they had to find out the consumer's 
circumstances and needs  before making a recommendation, and recommend only suitable 
investments for the consumer.
In this context I do not think it could  reasonably be described as best advice to recommend that a 17 
year old commits  to an inflexible 15 year savings plan when so many of his of her circumstances were  
likely to change during this period however  modest  the amount  involved.
Whether it be changing job, going  to college or travelling, getting married,  having  children, buying a 
property or simply a car, Mr B could not possibly  have predicted  that he would either  want or be able 
to afford to retain a regular savings commitment for the next 15 years at that point in his life.
Although, from what Ive read,  there  appears  to be no surviving literature setting out the charges  and 
costs from stopping  or cashing-in the plan early, in my experience there would have been significant 
penalties to doing so. So this plan was only suitable if the advisor could be fairly  sure that Mr B would  
definitely retain it for the full 15 years.  I do not see how he could  have been.  The fact that he did retain  
it for this time does not justify the original advice.
As Mr B appeared happy, at that point in time,  to put aside £10.66 a month for savings purposes,  
rather than keep  it in his current  account,  Royal London should  pay compensation on the basis that 
he would still have been willing to commit this sum if better  advised.
Royal London  should therefore compare the return Mr B received when  this plan matured in 2009 with 
what he would have achieved via a suitable, flexible,  low risk investment  product.
To do this it should use the formula recommended by this service.  That is, it should  use an equal 
combination of the Bank of Englands returns on bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity and the returns 
shown by the FTSE  Private Investors  Total Income Return Index. I will set this out in greater detail  in 
my final decision. If this comparison shows a loss it should pay this and add 8% simple interest per 
annum to this loss figure from the date of maturity  to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87992483my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Royal London  to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8799248