K821x#15complaint
Mr L is complaining about  the way that SSE Home  Services Limited (SSE) has maintained  
his boiler under his boiler care agreement.
background
Mr L took out a boiler care agreement with his new boiler in 2012. SSE carried  out annual 
services to the boiler each year and attended and repaired the boiler  when Mr L called to say 
it wasnt working or had leaks. In November 2017,  Mr L cancelled  the agreement.
In April 2018, Mr L complained to SSE that it hadnt  maintained the boiler  correctly.  He said 
hed got an independent  engineers report which said that the boiler had extensive rust and 
build-up of lime scale due to poor maintenance. He also said that there was a leak around 
pump housing  and AAV valve. He said that the AAV valve on the pump  housing  had been 
closed off to stop water  leaking  from the top of the pump housing. Due to the level of rust 
and damage to the boiler, Mr L has had to replace  the boiler. Mr L holds SSE responsible  for 
this. 
SSE didnt think it had caused these issues. It thinks it maintained the boiler to a satisfactory  
standard and didnt  cause  the rust and lime scale. It said that Mr L lived in an area of hard 
water, which  is what would have caused  the build-up of lime scale.  It said that the CO/CO2  
levels of the boiler  at each service were within a satisfactory level,  so the engineer wasnt  
required to strip the boiler down. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She said the independent engineer had said that the 
rust had built up due to a long period of poor maintenance. And, given SSE had serviced  
and maintained the boiler throughout its life, she thought  it was responsible  for what  
happened. She didnt  think SSE should  have to pay to replace the entire boiler because it 
was six years old. But she thought it should pay £450 towards the replacement  cost.
SSE didnt agree with the investigator. It maintained that it had serviced the boiler  in line with 
its responsibilities.  So the complaints been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why.
Mr L is complaining that hes had to replace his boiler due to extensive rust and lime scale 
build-up. SSE doesnt think its responsible for this and maintains that it has serviced the 
boiler correctly.
Mr Ls boiler was only six years old when he had to replace it. And ordinarily he shouldnt  
have had to do so at this stage. Ive reviewed the independent engineers report and he says 
that the rust and lime scale build-up  is due to a leak coming from the AAV valve (air 
admittance valve).  He also said that the pump  housing had been closed off to stop water  
leaking from the top of the pump  housing.
Ref: DRN89912832Ive taken SSEs comments  about  the service  history into account.  But I think the service 
history is immaterial to this complaint. I think the key issue is that SSEs engineer attended a 
leak in February 2017. The notes from this say that the engineer replaced the leaking AAV 
and diverter valve. So it did work to the precise area that the independent engineer  said had 
caused the issue. I think its also most likely  that only SSEs engineer  could have closed off 
the pump housing.
It seems  to me that all the work did was temporarily  minimise  the leak. But water  had 
continued to leak out of this area and this is ultimately what has caused the boiler to fail. So I 
agree with the investigator that SSE is responsible  for whats  happened here.
The investigator recommended  that SSE pay £450  towards a new boiler. But since then Mr L 
has paid to replace  the boiler  and this cost him £2,400. I agree with the investigator that it 
would be unfair  to require SSE to have  to pay for the full cost of the new boiler as Mr L is 
now better off with having a new boiler rather than a six year old boiler. But I think  it should 
pay 25% of the replacement cost  i.e. £600.
I also think this matter  will have caused  Mr L some distress and inconvenience.  So I think  
SSE should  also pay him £150  in compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require SSE Home  Services  Limited to do the following to put things right:
1.Refund £600 of what Mr L paid to replace the boiler. It should also pay 8% simple 
interest per year on this from when he paid it until he gets it back. If it thinks its required  
to deduct tax from this settlement  it should  give Mr L a certificate  showing how much tax 
its taken off; and
2.pay him £150 in compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  this matter  has caused 
him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8991283