K820x#14complaint
The executor of Mrs S estate is complaining  about  a home reversion plan she and Mr S 
(who pre-deceased her) took out in 2000. The executor believes the plan was mis-sold 
because of the amount Mr and Mrs S received from the plan in comparison to the 
percentage of the property (and its value)  that was released for it. The executor also doesnt 
consider Phoenixs  staff dealt with the complaint  professionally  and believes Phoenix  has 
something to hide.
Phoenix is now responsible for the sale of the plan, although it was created and sold by 
another life assurance company.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out the home reversion plan in 2000. In return for 48.06% of their home, 
they received  a lump sum of £20,000 and a monthly income of £80 for life. The property at 
that time was valued at £142.500. 
The reasons  why letter produced at the time of the sale said that Mr and Mrs S already had 
money invested to produce an income, but wanted additional income.  They also wanted  a 
lump sum of cash for a car, holidays and to have some savings. They  wanted their estate to 
still share in the property  value and any increase in that and so the value of the property was 
to be shared  base  on the amounts Mr and Mrs S wanted, they gave up 48.04%  of their 
property value in payment  for the plan.
Details of the offer Phoenix was willing to make to Mr and Mrs S were sent to them in 
September 2000 and, as part of the process,  they had to go through the offer with a solicitor.  
Phoenix has provided evidence that this happened before Mr and Mrs S signed the 
acceptance forms. 
Mrs S died in the spring of 2019; Mr S having pre-deceased her.  A few weeks  after Mrs S 
death, the executor asked Phoenix for a copy of all the paperwork  available  for the plan, 
including the valuation and the calculations. He requested it be sent in time for it to be 
discussed in a meeting he had with his solicitor the following  day. Phoenix said it would send 
what it could, but not all of the information  requested would be available  immediately as 
some was held by its solicitors. In addition, Mr S was told that he wouldnt be provided with a 
copy of the calculations. Mr S raised  a complaint about the policy having been mis-sold. 
Phoenix said it thought  the plan was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S when it was arranged.  It also 
confirmed that the amount offered for the value of the amount of the property  given over to 
the plan, was determined by many  factors. It was calculated by a computer programme and 
the calculation  included actuarial assessments. 
It was subsequently confirmed that the programme that had been  used to produce the 
figures in 2000  was no longer available. Whilst  Phoenix could conduct similar calculations 
using current systems, it didnt have the factual information that was used in 2000; things like 
life expectancy and predicted interest rates. 
The executor wasnt  happy with the response from Phoenix and referred the complaint to 
this service. He explained  that he needed to understand  how the figures involved in the plan 
were arrived  at. He believed the valuation  completed in 2000 was broadly  right. However, 
Mr and Mrs S only received £37,680  from the plan, but gave up a share of the property worth 
Ref: DRN89888332£68,485.50. It was acknowledged that interest  had to be taken into consideration on 
Phoenixs investment  and it needed to make  a profit, but he thought  the amount of profit  it 
had made  wasnt reasonable. The property was at the time of the complaint worth  in the 
region of £325,000 and this meant Phoenix was earning a profit  of £415% before expenses.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He didnt consider the evidence  indicated 
Phoenix had done  anything wrong  and, therefore,  didnt  recommend the complaint be 
upheld. 
Mrs S executor didnt  accept our investigators conclusions.  He said he was aware of all the 
documents the investigator had mentioned, but nowhere in any of them was there mention of 
the percentage profit being charged. He said he doesnt accept that Phoenix cant prove its 
calculations and believes it must have its processes documented,  which can be checked 
manually. The executor  also highlighted that his concerns  about  the conduct  of the staff at 
Phoenix hadnt been commented on. 
Our investigator reiterated that it was not unreasonable for Phoenix not to be able to 
evidence the calculations given the circumstances and the time that had elapsed. In 
addition, he pointed out that there was no obligation for a business to include details of the 
profit it was anticipating  from a product being  sold. In relation to the executors  comment  
about the conduct of the staff at Phoenix, as he wasnt party  to the conversations  that had 
taken place, he couldnt comment.   
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The executor of Mrs S estate believes the home reversion plan sold to Mr and Mrs S was 
mis-sold because he thinks they were  charged too much for the benefits they received from 
the plan.  I can understand why he is concerned because Mr and Mrs S received around  
£38,000 in exchange for just under £68,500  of the value of their home. He also believes that 
Phoenixs staff were hiding information from him and behaved unprofessionally.
Firstly, I would say that Phoenix was correct when it initially said to the executor that the 
calculations were not something  it would give out. The detail of such calculations  is not 
something I would  expect a life assurance company to provide to a consumer or their 
representative as they would include commercially sensitive information. So I dont think it 
was unreasonable for the executor to be told the calculations wouldnt be provided when he 
initially contacted  Phoenix.  I dont think this indicates  that Phoenix  had something  to hide in 
the way the executor believes.
In addition, the policy sold to Mr and Mrs S was transferred from a different life assurance  
company to Phoenix. Whilst at the time of the transfer the computer system involved may 
have still been  available, given Phoenix  stopped  selling new products over 15 years ago, I 
am not surprised that it hasnt maintained new business  computer systems that would now 
be rather antiquated  and possibly incompatible with modern computer systems. I dont think 
Phoenix has done anything wrong in not maintaining  the computer  system  in question. 
Phoenix has said that it cant reproduce the calculations using current systems  because it 
doesnt have the core information on which the calculations were based. Again, I dont find 
this surprising or implausible.  The amount required to produce the sums and income  a 
Ref: DRN89888333consumer wanted  was dependent on many factors including ages, genders and projected 
life expectancy for the consumers. In relation  to the property value, there would also be 
predictions used  about  future changes in the property market  and fluctuations  in interest  
rates and annuity rates over the anticipated term of the plan. These assumptions would have 
been set and determined by the original life assurance companys actuaries and would  
change from time to time. The assumptions would have been built directly  into the computer 
systems. I am not surprised Phoenix doesnt  have access to those assumptions now when 
the computer  system  isnt available, and its been at least 20 years since  the actuaries 
created them.
I know this will disappoint the executor,  but I am not persuaded that Phoenix did anything  
wrong in this case or that it behaved  inappropriately or has tried to hide anything. The simple 
fact is that sometimes information from so long ago isnt still available.  Whilst the executor 
doesnt think the amount received from the plan, in relation to the value Mr and Mrs S gave 
up for their home was sufficient, they were clearly satisfied with it at the time and they were 
entitled to make that exchange for the ability to improve their retirement lifestyle.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask the executors of the estate of Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2021.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8988833