K821x#15complaint
Ms G complained that J D Williams & Company Limited, trading as Fashion World, failed to 
help her when  she told them  she was in financial difficulty.  
background
Ms G had an account with J D Williams and her balance was about  £500 when she 
contacted them in November 2018.  She says she first used their online chat service and 
asked them if it was possible to reduce  the interest  on her account for a while as she no 
longer worked  and couldnt afford to pay more each month.  She then completed an online 
form. She asked them  to help her pay what she owes. She said shed been trying to pay off 
her account  but could  only afford  the minimum payment each month and had noticed how 
much was being added in interest. She asked if J D Williams would consider reducing or 
freezing the interest on her account  so she could pay it off more  quickly.
J D Williams dealt with Ms Gs enquiry  as a complaint but didnt uphold  it. They  referred to 
the terms and conditions of the account  and said they were unable to amend the interest 
rate. They advised Ms G to pay more than the minimum amount she owed  wherever 
possible. They also referred Ms G to their customer recovery team  if she was finding it hard 
to maintain payments so they could discuss her financial  situation  and the options  available. 
Ms G wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service.
Our investigator thought J D Williams should have been aware from the information  Ms G 
had given them in November 2018 that she was in financial difficulties. He thought they 
should have taken steps to help her at that point. He thought  J D Williams should refund the 
interest shed been charged since November 2018 and take that off the current balance. He 
also thought they should freeze interest  for six months to allow  her to pay off the remaining 
balance. In addition,  he thought they should  pay Ms G £100 for not considering  her financial 
difficulties and not setting up a repayment  plan. And a further £50 for the upset shed 
experienced. He said they should take these amounts off her outstanding balance  to help 
Ms G pay off her debt.
Ms G agreed with our investigators view but J D Williams  didnt agree. They said Ms Gs 
complaint was about the amount of interest  applied to her account rather  than not helping  
her when she brought the matter to their attention. They said theyve corresponded with 
Ms G advising her to contact them, but she hasnt done so. They  also said Ms G made, and 
continues to make, regular payments  above  her minimum payment, which  suggests  shes 
willing and able to pay the balance and is simply unhappy with the amount of interest  shes  
paying.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In light of the comments made by J D Williams, Ive looked very carefully at the information 
Ms G provided when she contacted them in November 2018. Theyre  correct in saying she 
focuses on the interest  that was being applied to her account  and asks them  if it can be 
reduced. But, I also think its sufficiently clear  from the information she gave that she was in 
financial difficulty and was looking for assistance.  I havent seen  the online chat she had with 
them but she says she asked them if it was possible to reduce the interest  on her account  for 
Ref: DRN80895812a while  as she no longer worked and couldnt  afford to pay more each month. I have no 
reason to doubt thats what she said.
The form she then completes sets out her current situation. She says shes  unable to use 
the phone  due to her health issues. She says shes lost her job due to ill health. She says 
she can only afford to pay the minimum amount each month  and is concerned that it will take 
about 13 years to pay off her balance at that rate. She says shes begging them to consider 
reducing or freezing interest on her account  so she can get it paid off much quicker, and 
adds while Im still alive. She concludes by saying  the worry and stress this is causing  her is 
indescribable. 
I can see from their contact notes that J D Williams recorded Ms G as being in financial  
difficulties when she contacted them in November 2018 and when they then considered her 
complaint they noted that shed expressed possible financial difficulties. So theres no doubt 
to me that J D Williams recognised that Ms G was in financial difficulty when she contacted  
them in November 2018. The question for me is whether  or not they should have done  more 
at that time to help her. And, on balance,  I think they should.
When a business  knows a consumer has financial difficulties, it must  act positively and 
sympathetically. It doesnt have to take specific action but there  are several  things it can do, 
like suspending, reducing and/or writing off interest and charges. The first thing wed expect 
a credit provider to do is listen to the consumer about their situation and discuss  what help is 
appropriate. 
J D Williams responded to Ms Gs request  for help by saying they were unable  to amend the 
interest rate and by advising her to pay more  than the minimum payment wherever she 
could. I dont think that was a fair or reasonable response to the situation  Ms G described.  
As J D Williams have  said, they also invited her to contact them  to discuss  her financial 
situation. I havent seen any evidence that she did that and I agree that there is some  
responsibility on a consumer to tell the lender about their circumstances. But, on balance,  I 
think the information Ms G provided  about her situation in the online chat and in the form she 
completed in November 2018 should have prompted J D Williams to take more action than it 
did. They  should  have  identified from that information not only that she was in financial 
difficulty but also that she was vulnerable and needed support. 
So, in the particular circumstances of this case, and taking into account Ms Gs individual 
situation, I think J D Williams should  have taken more proactive action to explore what  it 
could do to help her. In recognition of the fact that it didnt, which contributed  to Ms Gs upset  
at her situation, I agree that compensation of £150  is fair and should  be used to reduce  the 
balance on her account.
Our investigator thought J D Williams should also reimburse the interest Ms G has paid 
since she contacted  them in November 2018 and take that off her balance. And freeze 
interest for six months to give her more  time to pay off her balance. I agree that this would 
be a fair and reasonable resolution to this situation in light of the particular circumstances of 
this case.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
J D Williams & Company  Limited to: 
Ref: DRN80895813remove any interest applied to Ms Gs account  since she contacted  them in 
November 2018 and use that amount to reduce  the balance  on the account;
cancel interest on her account  for six months  from the date of this decision;
pay Ms G £150 for failing to provide options  and support and use that amount  to 
reduce the balance  on the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8089581