K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Quidie Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Quidie provided to Miss B in August 2018. A 
summary of Miss Bs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 21/08/2018 22/08/2018 3 £300.00 £119.46
2 27/08/2018 Outstanding 5 £500.00 £150.77
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Bs complaint and thought Quidiess checks  for the loans 
went far enough. Miss B disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Quidie needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quidie should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN83979322Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators  view because she thought Quidies checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been  aware that she was struggling financially and had other  
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to her.
Quidie has told this service about the checks it carried  out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Miss B about her employment status and she confirmed she 
was employed and had a monthly income of £1,832. Quidie also checked Miss Bs normal 
monthly living costs. Miss B declared these  as £996  per month.  Quidie says it also searched 
Miss Bs credit file and it has provided  the results of its search.  There  werent any recent 
adverse entries  like defaults or county court judgements  (CCJs) recorded on it at the time 
the loan was taken out. 
Miss B has also provided a copy of her credit  report and this shows a lot of borrowing which  
she was settling quickly  which  can sometimes be an indication  that someone  is juggling  
their finances due to trying to make ends meet.  But a lot of this borrowing doesnt  show on 
the credit  report Quidie has provided. I can also see that Miss B took out several short-term 
loans around the time she took out loan 2 from Quidie  but these wouldnt yet have  shown 
up on any checks Quidie would have  done before it lent to Miss B. 
Miss B borrowed two loans within six days,  and she had no history  of borrowing previously 
from this lender. So, she was very early on in her lending relationship with Quidie. Even 
though she had to make monthly repayments,  the highest repayment would have appeared 
affordable based  on the information  she declared to Quidie. And there wasnt anything  in the 
information Miss B provided at the time which would  have given Quidie cause for concern, 
so I think it was reasonable of Quidie to have  relied  on what  Miss B gave it. 
I think these factors had an impact  of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Quidie to carry out. Given these, I think the checks Quidie did before lending the loan went 
far enough and I wouldnt  have expected it at this stage to undertake any more  in-depth 
checks. 
The information Miss B declared to Quidie at the time of the loans may not have been  an 
accurate reflection of her financial circumstances, but I think Quidie was entitled  to rely on 
that information. At this stage of the lending relationship, and what  Quidie knew  about      
Miss B, I wouldnt have expected Quidie to verify the information Miss B gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Quidie done  something wrong in lending Miss B these 
loans.
I appreciate that my findings  are likely  to disappoint Miss B, but I hope my explanation will 
help her understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
Ref: DRN83979323my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Bs complaint  and make no award against Quidie Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8397932