K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  repossessed a van unfairly. 
Background
In June 2017 Mr A acquired a vehicle at a cost of £6,954, of which £6,245  was funded  by a 
hire purchase agreement with FirstRand. The vehicle was used by Mr As son who later 
became estranged. The son was making the monthly payments but these stopped and 
FirstRand took action  to obtain payment of the arrears. In the meantime Mr A reported the 
vehicle stolen to the police but they decided  that it was domestic  matter.
Mr A didnt know where either van or his son was and FirstRand  engaged a third party  to 
locate the vehicle and repossess it. The third party says that the son refused to hand over 
the keys and it couldnt contact Mr A so it had to take it away on a low loader. The vehicle 
was sold at auction and Mr A was asked to pay the balance  including the repossession  
costs. He says that he offered to supply  his spare set of keys,  but FirstRand refused. He also 
says he wasnt allowed the chance  to sell it to help repay the sum due of £2,785.04.
Mr A complained to FirstRand  and it said that he had signed the agreement and was 
responsible for maintaining payments. As the account fell into arrears it had to act to protect 
its position and this ended up with the vehicle being  repossessed. As such it rejected his 
complaint so he brought the matter to this service. It was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He noted 11 monthly  payments had been made  which  amounted to less than a third of the 
sum due. The agreement set out FirstRands rights to repossession and the relevant 
sections says: If you miss any payment, the vehicle may be repossessed and sold at 
auction, after which you may still have a financial liability to Motonovo Finance. Our 
adjudicator said he believed FirstRand was within its rights  to repossess the vehicle. 
He didnt think the fact Mr A and his son share the same name had caused any confusion 
and he noted  it was open to Mr A to have  paid the arrears and so allow  him time to locate 
the vehicle and repossess it himself. Mr A didnt agree and said the vehicle had a Yale lock 
fitted and this must have been  removed  reducing  its resale value. He also disputed that the 
third party had tried to contact him. He added that the police had told him they had 
recovered the van.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr A who has been  facing a difficult time, but I cannot see that 
FirstRand has done anything wrong.
It may help if I set out where the various  parties fit into the agreement. Mr A entered into an 
agreement with FirstRand under which it provided him with finance and he agreed  to make 
the monthly repayments. The vehicle remained the property of FirstRand and any 
arrangement Mr A had with his son had no bearing on the agreement  with FirstRand.  The 
fact the son was the registered keeper and was making payments to FirstRand does not 
Ref: DRN81161452make him party to the hire purchase  agreement.  Therefore  it was right that FirstRand looked  
to Mr A to pay the money due.
Mr A and his son fell out and the son stopped making the payments. This didnt mean these 
werent due. FirstRand had lent money in good faith and it expected that Mr A would 
maintain the agreed payments whether or not he outsourced this to his son. As a party  to the 
agreement Mr A remained liable  for the payments and any costs associated with it.
I appreciate Mr A was put in a difficult  situation by his son, but that doesnt mean FirstRand  
was wrong to act as it did. I have looked at its internal records and I am satisfied that it took 
reasonable steps to obtain  payment. It wasnt obliged to tell Mr A where the vehicle was 
when its agent  located it. He didnt  own it and he wasnt the registered keeper. By the time it 
had found the van it had already begun repossession proceedings and unless Mr A was able 
to pay the debt I dont  believe  it was unreasonable for FirstRand to proceed.
I am not aware of any evidence showing the vehicle was recovered by the police, but I 
understand that FirstRand did receive  the vehicle and it was sold at auction. It was entitled to 
take reasonable action to repossess the vehicle  and if that meant it had to remove the Yale 
lock then I consider  that to fall within the agreed  terms  and conditions.  
I recognise Mr A has been placed in a difficult position by his son, but as I dont believe 
FirstRand has done anything wrong  in its handling  of the matter I cant  uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
30 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8116145