K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited have handled her claim 
on her car insurance following an accident.
background
Ms P had a car insurance policy  with Advantage. She was involved in a car accident in 
September 2018 and made  a claim.
The claim was initially passed  to a credit hire company, however Ms P was unhappy  with the 
repair work they did. So Advantage took over the claim again  in November 2018.
Advantage agreed to deliver  the vehicle to Ms Ps chosen garage and provided her with a 
courtesy car. It arranged  for her vehicle  to be inspected by its engineer who confirmed that 
some additional  damage  had been  caused by the first garage. Further repairs were  then 
arranged. 
In January 2019 the engineer decided that the car was a total loss. Ms P was advised  that 
she could either have it written off and receive  a settlement for the value of the car, or they 
could proceed  with repairs. At the start of March she confirmed she would like the vehicle  to 
be repaired. 
By April, Advantages engineer was satisfied that the repairs  were  complete. However on 
inspection, Ms P wasnt satisfied that all work  had been completed as agreed.  Advantage 
reviewed the repairs  again and agreed  that more work was needed. Further repair  work was 
done, and the car was signed  off again  in July 2019.  However Ms P still wasnt happy that all 
damage had been  repaired.
During the claim Ms P raised a number of complaints. These included that the engineer had 
caused additional damage  to her car while it had been in its care. She also complained 
about the service  she had received  from Advantage and its engineers.  And she didnt think 
the courtesy car she had been  provided  with was suitable because it was a lower 
specification than her vehicle. Further she said her car had been returned to her in an 
unsuitable state and her courtesy car had been taken off her. This meant  she felt she didnt 
have a safe vehicle to drive. 
Advantage responded to all her complaints across  a number  of different responses. It 
accepted that the service it and its agents  had provided hadnt always been  up to the 
standard it would  expect.  And it offered a total of £720 compensation across all of Ms Ps 
complaints. However  it said the courtesy car was a similar standard to her car and the policy 
didnt guarantee  it would be like for like. Further it said its engineer had signed the car off 
and it was satisfied  that all required work  had been  carried out. It also said that some  delays 
in dealing with the claim had been due to Ms P. 
Ms P wasnt satisfied with Advantages  responses to her complaints. She said there were 
still repairs that hadnt been resolved such as a badly fitted windscreen and a scratch on the 
bumper. Further, she said she had ongoing  problems  with her mental health that had been 
made worse by the stress  caused  by Advantages handling of her claim,  so she thought the 
compensation wasnt enough  to reflect the impact it had had on her. She brought her 
complaints to this service.  
Ref: DRN83420602Our investigator agreed the service  provided by Advantage  and its agents had been  poor at 
times. But felt £720 was sufficient to compensate for the distress  and inconvenience this had 
caused. He also said, as Advantage had provided a report from its engineer that said the 
repairs on the car were  complete, and it had subsequently passed  its MOT,  he didnt agree it 
was unsafe to drive.
Ms P was unhappy  with this assessment. She said that the car still had problems that had 
been caused by Advantage and its agents and hadnt been rectified and she didnt  think  the 
compensation was sufficient. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Since the complaint came to me I have spoken  to both Advantage and Ms P about my 
proposed resolution,  as it differs  from what our investigator recommended. Advantage dont 
agree that any additional  compensation should  be offered, as it says it thinks the £720 
offered across all Ms Ps complaints is enough  to make up for the distress it has caused  her.
Ms P doesnt think £500 additional compensation is enough to make up for the impact the 
claim has had on her mental health. She also thinks that Advantage should write off the car 
and pay her the value  as she still isnt satisfied that its been  fully repaired. 
I have considered these  responses when reaching  my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P has raised a number of different complaint points. As this is an informal  service  I
havent responded to every one. I have  only addressed what I consider to be the key issues.  
However I want to reassure Ms P that I have considered all the points  she raised when
reaching my decision.
Its clear that the circumstances  have caused Ms P considerable distress. And the time the 
claim has taken  to resolve, is much longer than I would  expect.  While  I can see that some  
delays were out of Advantages  control, I can see there were times when it caused avoidable 
delays and where it has delivered poor service. I have considered where  it has got things 
wrong, the impact  this had on Ms P and whether it has done enough to put things right.
Credit Hire company
When Ms P made the claim, Advantage initially handed the matter  to a credit  hire company. 
Ms P says this wasnt made clear to her at the time. Having reviewed the information 
provided by Advantage, I dont think the available options were  made  clear  to her. From  
what Ms P has said, I dont think she would have  agreed to a third party dealing with the 
claim if she had properly  understood the options. So I have considered  the impact this has 
had on the claim and Ms P.
If Ms P had decided that she didnt want her claim handled by a credit hire company, its 
likely the claim  would have been resolved much more quickly. This is because  it was three 
months between when the accident happened  and when Advantages engineer declared the 
car a total loss after retrieving it form the credit  hire company. Further,  some of the repairs  
needed, that led to the car being  a total loss, were caused by poor work carried out by the 
Ref: DRN83420603credit hire company. So these wouldnt have occurred if Ms P had chosen to have the claim 
dealt with by Advantage.  
So while it isnt possible to know exactly how much of a delay this caused, I agree things 
would have moved forward more quickly if this hadnt happened. Further,  it seems likely that 
less repair  work would have been needed, so its likely  the whole claim could have been 
resolved more quickly had the claim not been  handed to a credit hire company to begin with.
Repair work from  January 2019
Once the car was declared  a total loss in January Ms P took until 3 March 2019 to make a 
decision about whether she wanted it to be repaired.  And in this time, no further progress 
could be made. I think this delay was outside  of Advantages control.
However after this, it took four more months for the repairs  to be completed  to a standard 
Advantages engineer was satisfied with. Some of this delay was due to parts not being  
available straight  away and there were a couple of occasions when Ms P rearranged  
inspections. So these  seem unavoidable delays.
However there were  a number of avoidable delays caused by Advantage. In May 
Advantages engineer signed off the repairs as complete. Ms P wasnt satisfied that this was 
correct, she provided a full list of the originally agreed repairs and pointed  out a number of 
things that hadnt been completed that were on that list. She also said there was some  new 
damage she had identified. On receipt of this, Advantages engineer  agreed  that more  work 
was needed in order to fulfil what was originally agreed. This was then completed  and 
signed off in July. 
It is clear from this that when Advantages engineer carried  out the checks  in May, he didnt 
check that all repairs that had been agreed had been carried out. This meant  Ms P had to do 
that work  herself  and prove to Advantage that all the required work hadnt  been done. This 
would have been very time consuming  for Ms P which  would have been inconvenient.  It was 
also the second occasion throughout the claim where repair work hadnt been done  
satisfactorily, so this would have  been  distressing for Ms P. Further this oversight by 
Advantages engineer led to an additional two month  delay while  the extra repairs  were 
completed. 
Repairs that remained outstanding
When the car was signed off in July Ms P still wasnt happy that all the damage had been 
repaired. She said she started  to drive it away but there was a rattling noise so she returned 
it to the garage. Advantage didnt agree that any further repairs should be covered. However 
in the months  that followed the garage  worked  with Ms P to fix most of the problems she 
raised. 
Ive looked at the damage that Ms P has said she thinks  was caused by the garage.  The 
individual problems  are all quite  small,  but there  were a number of them. I agree that it is 
difficult to know whether the damage  was pre-existing or if it happened while the car was in 
the garage, as they are minor  aesthetic issues that may not have been noted  on the check in 
sheet. 
However some items  such as dots of paint on the windows,  appear highly likely to have 
been caused while the car was being  repaired. Advantages engineer  didnt appear  to do a 
Ref: DRN83420604thorough investigation of these issues before concluding they were pre-existing. This meant  
Ms P had to put a lot of time and effort into proving  otherwise.  After  an already long claim, 
where repair work had been signed when it wasnt  complete,  I can see this was very 
distressing for Ms P. 
While I accept that a report was completed in July 2019 that stated the car had been 
restored to its pre-accident condition, the same  engineer also completed a report in May 
2019 concluding the same thing and this was later proved to be incorrect. And there seems 
to have been very little consideration of the issues Ms P raised  that she felt were caused  
while the car was at the garage. 
 
These issues were largely resolved after July; however  this was only because the director  of 
Ms Ps garage stepped  in to try and get the matter rectified. And not because  of Advantages 
assistance with the matter.  I understand Advantage did pay for a number of these repairs.  
But this has happened  in the months  after the car was signed  off in July and I think this 
should have been done much earlier. And if it had, this would have reduced the distress  and 
inconvenience that has been caused to Ms P.
Service from  Advantages  agents
From reviewing the correspondence  throughout the claim, I can see that the service Ms P 
received from the claim handling staff at Advantage was largely  good.  Ms P sent a high 
volume of correspondence and this was picked up and responded to in a timely  manner.
However the service  from Advantages agents has been poor.  As I mentioned,  they appear 
to dismiss her claims that additional damage  was caused to the vehicle at the garage, 
without sufficient consideration.
Further, there have  also been two occasions  when Ms P has felt threatened by staff 
members from Advantages  agents.  Once  when  an email was mistakenly sent to her and 
another time in person. This would  have been  even  more  distressing in the context of this 
long running claim. Ms P has explained  that she suffers  with her mental health and these 
occurrences would have had a greater  impact because of this.
Putting things  right
So when I consider the claim overall, I think Advantage has caused Ms P considerable 
distress and inconvenience. Ms P has had to spend  a lot of time proving that repairs  to her 
car havent been completed to a satisfactory  standard. This has meant she has had to send 
a lot of emails with additional evidence which would have been  very inconvenient. Further,  
throughout the claim Advantages  agents have completed poor repairs on a number of 
occasions, and have been dismissive  when she has raised her concerns. And each time she 
has raised a concern, it has taken a long time for these  problems  to be rectified. This would 
have been distressing for Ms P.
Ms P says she is still not satisfied that her car has been  returned to its pre-accident  condition 
and she now wants the car to be written off. While I understand why she feels  this way, I can 
see that Advantage have now spent a considerable amount of money on repairs to the 
vehicle. Further Ms P was given  the option  to have the car written off at the start of the claim 
and didnt choose to do so. So while I understand why Ms P has lost faith in the repairs  over 
the claim,  I dont think it would be fair to ask Advantage to write the car off at this stage. 
Ref: DRN83420605However, due to the avoidable delays and poor service, and the impact this has had on 
Ms P, I dont think the compensation paid is enough to make up for this. I therefore  think  
Advantage should pay Ms P an additional £500  compensation to make up for the distress  
and inconvenience  it has caused throughout the claim.
Finally, I note that Ms P still has a couple of minor aesthetic issues outstanding  that she 
feels are related to the repair work at the garage. Due to the time since  the accident  and 
repairs, I dont think its possible to know whether these repairs are claim related. However  
as they are minor and aesthetic,  Im satisfied the car is safe to drive  and it is now in a good 
condition, close to how it was before  the accident. Ms P may choose  to use the additional 
compensation to fix the problems she believes are outstanding. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8342060