K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Zurich Assurance  Ltd declined his claim for critical illness benefit and 
subsequently cancelled his policy. 
background
On 9 March 2017,  Mr M applied for a Decreasing Mortgage Cover  Plan,  with life assurance 
and critical illness benefit. The sum assured was £106,000 over a 40 year term. As part of 
the application, Mr M was asked the following question:
In the last 5 years, unless you have already told us earlier in this application, have  
you had:
any disease or disorder of the eyes or ears such as double vision or visual 
impairment in one or both eyes? (You dont need  to tell us about sight problems 
corrected by glasses  or contact lenses.)
Mr M answered no to these questions. Zurich sent Mr M a letter on 11 March 2017, which 
included the information hed given.  Zurich asked Mr M to check if anything was incorrect, or 
had changed,  before the cover on his plan started  on 13 March  2017. 
In July 2018, Mr M made a critical illness claim as hed been  diagnosed  with Multiple 
Sclerosis (MS).  To assess Mr Ms claim, Zurich asked Mr Ms doctor for his medical records.  
Zurich said these showed Mr M visited his optician  in April 2015, complaining hed 
experienced diplopia (double  vision) for the last two to three weeks.  Mr M was subsequently 
referred to the ophthalmology department for further  investigations, but he didnt  attend.  
Zurich said Mr M should have answered  yes when asked the above  questions and if he 
had, it would only have  offered him life cover  without critical illness cover.  Zurich offered  to 
refund all premiums paid towards his policy. Alternatively it could remove  the critical illness 
benefit from Mr Ms plan, refund all premiums  paid for this part of the policy, and apply an 
additional rating to reduce his life cover to £71,588.
Mr M complained about Zurichs decision,  saying he went  to the optician only because he 
was experiencing double  vision when  he was wearing contact lenses, not his glasses. The 
note from his opticians appointment  on 14 April 2015 says noticed diplopia  on right gaze 
with CLs for past 2-3 weeks.  Another  note said Mr M Noticed vision  when looks to the 
right things possibly  seem  double most of the time for past 2-3 weeks. With CLs not noticed 
with specs. 
Mr Ms optician then wrote a note which said GP Action Required to: Refer  to Eye 
Department  Routine.  The letter said Mr M complained  of diplopia on right gaze for past 2-
3 weeks Please could  you refer [him]  for further investigation.  Below this was a statement 
which said the reason  for this referral has been  explained to the patient  or guardian  who 
agrees to it. But Mr M says he wasnt made aware of the referral  by the optician. He said if 
the eye department wrote to him about an appointment, he wouldnt have received it as the 
hospital didnt  have his new address  it only had his old one where  he no longer lived.
Mr M told Zurich  the next time he experienced problems with his sight was in July 2017, and 
his sight got worse from October  2017. He said he hadnt worked  for ten months and was no 
longer receiving sick pay from his employer  or statutory sick pay.
Ref: DRN84187102Zurich asked the consultant neurologist who diagnosed Mr Ms MS when he first sought 
medical advice for its symptoms. The neurologist  said Mr M reported  an episode of optic 
neuritis (October 2017).  The neurologist didnt give any factors  in Mr Ms medical history 
that occurred  before  March 2017,  which suggested  Mr M was at an increased  risk of 
developing MS. But Zurich didnt change its decision to decline Mr Ms claim; it said that 
whilst Mr M said he wasnt told about the opticians referral in 2015,  Zurich thought Mr M had 
been made aware of it and should have disclosed it on his policy application.  
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr M referred  his complaint to our service to review.  Zurich 
provided us with a copy of its underwriting guidance,  which said if it had been  made  aware of 
the diplopia, and no underlying cause had been found, it would have treated this as optic 
neuritis. If the optic neuritis had not been  fully investigated,  Zurich  would have declined to 
offer critical illness insurance  and would have rated his life cover.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ms complaint be upheld. He didnt think  the question 
quoted above was clear enough  to capture Mr Ms circumstances. The investigator said 
Mr M experienced symptoms only when  wearing contact lenses and as there was no 
evidence to suggest the issue  continued, it was reasonable  for him to answer no when 
asked whether he had any sight problems (not corrected by contact lenses or glasses). The 
investigator didnt  think  it was likely Mr M was made aware of the referral  as there were no 
letters addressed  to him but  even  if he had been  made aware  the symptoms had 
stopped after the opticians appointment in 2015,  with Mr M thinking  the problem had been 
rectified by his contact  lenses or glasses.
Our investigator recommended Zurich reconsider Mr Ms claim as per the terms of his policy 
and if his claim is accepted, interest  should be added at 8%. The investigator also 
recommended Zurich pay Mr M £500 compensation to recognise the trouble  and upset 
caused. 
Zurich said it was unlikely  the problem had been caused and rectified by contact lenses or 
glasses. Zurich also said the address the optician wrote to was occupied  by Mr Ms family  at 
the time of the opticians appointment, so Zurich thought  it was likely Mr M received the 
referral. So this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and 
insurer when entering into an insurance contract.
CIDRA placed Mr M under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
(i.e. to say something  untrue  or misleading), provided Zurich asked him a clear  question.  If 
Mr M didnt  take reasonable care to answer  questions accurately, CIDRA sets out the 
remedies available  to Zurich. 
Ref: DRN84187103was there  a misrepresentation?
I first need to decide whether Mr M met his obligation  to take reasonable care when 
completing his application  for insurance. If he didnt  do so, this amounts  to a 
misrepresentation. 
As part of his application, Zurich asked Mr M if hed ever had:
any disease or disorder of the eyes or ears such as double vision or visual 
impairment in one or both eyes..? (You dont need  to tell us about sight problems 
corrected by glasses  or contact lenses.)
Zurich has, in its final response to Mr Ms complaint and in communication with our service, 
focused on the first half of the statement above, which is whether Mr M had, in the last five 
years, experienced double vision or visual impairment in one or both eyes. And its not in 
dispute Mr M went to the optician experiencing some form of double  vision  or visual 
impairment in April 2015. Zurich has placed  great  emphasis  on Mr M not disclosing his 
double vision, and possible knowledge  of a referral  to an eye department.
However, I think Zurich has overlooked its qualification  of the question in the second half of 
the statement  when  assessing this claim. The above  statement doesnt  require Mr M to 
disclose whether he had experienced double vision or a visual  impairment in the last five 
years  he has only to disclose any double vision or visual impairment  that wasnt corrected 
by glasses or contact  lenses. This means that if Mr M had such  a problem that was fixed  by 
wearing glasses or contact lenses,  he didnt have to disclose it.
Mr Ms testimony is that he experienced double vision  whilst wearing contact lenses over a 
two to three  week period. But he said he experienced this problem only when wearing 
contact lenses, and not glasses. I think this is supported by the contemporaneous evidence 
provided by the optician, which says Mr M experienced this problem with contact  lenses but 
not with glasses. This suggests the problem was corrected simply by Mr M wearing glasses 
instead of contact lenses. So I think its reasonable that Mr M answered no, given he felt the 
problem was not present when he wasnt wearing contact lenses and his symptoms had 
resolved soon after he experienced them.
There is no further evidence to be found  that Mr Ms double vision  continued after this 
episode  either in Mr Ms testimony or in his medical notes  until it is noted  to have 
returned in July 2017. 
I think its unlikely an optician would refer a patient to a hospitals eye department without 
telling them during the appointment. So Mr M may well have  been  made  aware hed been 
referred to the eye department by his optician, but chose  not to attend the appointment. I 
dont think Mr M needed to answer  yes to the question above  so I dont think Zurich  has 
shown Mr M didnt take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation when asked about 
sight problems not corrected by glasses or contact lenses.
Ive considered whether the referral  on its own could reasonably have been disclosed in 
response to any other question in the application form. Ive not seen any question that I think 
should have prompted Mr M to disclose the referral   he wasnt,  for example, waiting for any 
investigations, appointments with a doctor or test results. 
Ref: DRN84187104Overall, I dont  think there was a misrepresentation here, so I dont think  Zurich was entitled  
to cancel Mr Ms critical illness  benefit  or amend his life assurance.  I think  Zurich  should 
reconsider Mr Ms critical illness claim subject to the terms of his policy.  If his claim is 
accepted, interest  at 8% simple should  be added to any payment from the date the claim 
was originally declined  until the date of settlement.
This complaint was made  against the background of Mr M being diagnosed  with MS, during 
an already difficult time for him. Mr M said he wasnt working  or receiving  sick pay for several 
months. Because of this, I think £500  compensation fairly reflects  the trouble and upset 
caused by Zurichs incorrect  decision to decline  Mr Ms claim and amend his policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint. Zurich Assurance Ltd should put 
things right by doing what  Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Vicki Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418710