K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about the advice she received from Bradford & Bingley Plc to transfer her 
occupational pension scheme  (OPS) to a personal pension.  
background
Bradford & Bingley  advised Mrs L to transfer  her OPS to a personal pension  in 1993.
It wrote to Mrs L in 1999. It said that it was conducting a review of pensions advice in 
accordance with the guidance issued by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA). And it 
subsequently said that the review of Mrs Ls pension policy had been completed and that it 
was in a position to make her an offer of redress. 
Mrs L accepted  Bradford  & Bingleys  offer.  As a result,  Bradford & Bingley added a further 
£4,346.55 to her pension.
Mrs L complained in 2019. But Bradford & Bingley didnt uphold her complaint, and so Mrs L 
brought it to this service. She said, in summary,  that shed been badly advised and should 
not have been advised to transfer.  And she felt that she should have been offered  more 
redress. 
Our adjudicator felt that Bradford & Bingley had dealt with her complaint fairly. She said that 
it had reviewed Mrs Ls pension in 1999 in accordance with the pension review  guidance.  So 
it was not required  to revisit the calculations again even if it now transpired that there  was a 
further loss.
Mrs L doesnt agree with our adjudicators view, and has asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicator that Mrs Ls complaint should  not be upheld. I realise that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs L, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
As our adjudicator has explained,  the advice Mrs L was given to transfer  from her OPS was 
reviewed as part of the regulators industry  wide pension  review. This was initiated  because 
the regulator feared that consumers had been given advice which  didnt meet the required 
standards at the time.
Where it was determined that unsuitable  advice had been given, firms  had to calculate  
whether this had caused a financial loss. Bradford & Bingley accepted  that Mrs L had 
received unsuitable advice, so it carried out one of these  calculations and found that Mrs L 
had lost out financially as a result. 
While the preferred form of redress was reinstatement of rights  into the former OPS, this 
wasnt always possible. In these cases the aim of the calculation  and compensation was to 
make a payment  that was thought to be enough to increase the value of Mrs Ls personal 
pension to provide  about  the same  level of benefits  as the OPS  would have done.
Ref: DRN89895412The problem was that for many people there was a long period left until their retirement date. 
So the calculations  were based  on a number of assumptions that were  necessary because 
of this. The then regulator set down  how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms  had to use to assess the potential  loss.
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent  mirrored reality  and annuity  rates  have also 
fallen significantly.  Both of these factors have had a big impact,  meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal  pensions  are lower than might  reasonably have been anticipated. So 
although Mrs Ls personal pension was increased with the intention  for it to match the 
benefits she would have received from her OPS at retirement, circumstances have meant 
that this hasnt been the case.
The aim of the pension  review was effectively to draw  a line under  any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at the time. It was a one off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
Bradford & Bingley  carried out the review  as it was required  to do. And Mrs L accepted 
Bradford & Bingleys offer of redress in full and final settlement when she signed the 
acceptance form.
I do understand why Mrs L feels that the compensation she received was insufficient. But it 
was the then regulators decision on how to deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is 
not something this service  can now challenge  or ignore. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8989541