K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that BMW  Financial  Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial 
Services (Alphera) have terminated his finance agreement and wont  reinstate it.
background
Mr D took receipt of a used car in February 2017. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with Alphera.  He made  all his payments on time until June 2018 when 
he called  Alphera  and told them hed be off work ill for a few weeks.  They agreed a 
repayment plan with him but by August he told them that hed been dismissed from work and 
could not meet the repayments. Alphera  referred him to debt counselling  services  and when 
no payments were received again  in September they delayed defaulting Mr Ds account until 
November 2018  when the account was significantly in arrears. In December  when the 
account was six months  in arrears they terminated his finance  agreement.
But Mr D told them he could now afford  the car and the repayments.  He asked them  to 
reverse the termination but they said this was no longer possible. Mr D says that hes been  
suffering from mental illness since June  2018 and that Alphera havent been sympathetic 
towards him.
He referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  provided  an opinion.  She 
thought Alphera had tried to help Mr D. She noted theyd been prepared  to agree repayment 
plans and had delayed issuing a default  notice until November when it was clear  they could 
have done so in November. She didnt think there was evidence theyd done  anything wrong 
and she didnt support Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D was disappointed  with the adjudicators findings so he asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr D so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
Ref: DRN84427122When Mr D told Alphera about his mental  health  issues, and when they became aware  of his 
financial difficulties, I would have  expected  them to be supportive and sympathetic to his 
situation.
I think they have  been  as I can see that they:
agreed repayment plans;
delayed issuing a default for several months;
directed Mr D to debt counselling.
The agreement wasnt terminated until Mr D was six months in arrears  but the terms of the 
finance agreement  allowed  Alphera to default  it if you fail to make a repayment   within  
30 days of it becoming due.  I think the delay in issuing the default  and terminating the 
contract was reasonable of Alphera  and I dont think theres evidence here theyve done 
anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8442712