K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Zenith Insurance plcs handling of his car insurance policy.
Reference to Zenith includes  their agents.
background
Mr M took out car insurance  with Zenith  through an insurance broker.  His policy started  in 
January 2018.
Mr M said that sometime at the end of July/early  August  2018,  there  was very heavy rainfall.  
The day following the rain he found that the front passenger side floor mat in his car was 
soaked. The cars fuse box is located  in that area.  A few days  later Mr M experienced 
problems with the car while  driving  it. It broke down and had to be recovered to the main 
dealers garage.  The garage found  that the fuse box had suffered water damage  which  was 
the cause of the car breaking down. The garage told Mr M it appeared that water  had 
somehow got into the car through  the windscreen.  
Mr M claimed on his policy. Zeniths  engineer looked at some photos Mr M had sent them 
and concluded  the problem with the fuse box was due to wear  and tear. Zenith then asked 
an independent engineer  to examine  the car. That engineer said the water damage didnt 
appear to be from a one-off incident or from an impact. He said it could have been as a 
result of a blocked roof drain, but that wasnt investigated. The main dealer garage  told 
Zenith the water damage wasnt as a result of wear and tear. But Zenith didnt pay the claim 
because it said the water damage was a result of wear and tear, which wasn't covered by  
Mr Ms policy.
Mr M complained. In addition to his claim not being  paid, he was also unhappy with Zeniths 
service, in particular poor communication  and delays.  Zenith  upheld  Mr Ms complaint in 
relation to the poor service  and paid him £150  compensation to address that. But they said 
they were right in rejecting his claim because wear and tear was excluded under the policy 
terms. 
As Mr M didnt think that was fair, he brought his complaint to our service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He felt that the compensation  Zenith  paid Mr M for the poor 
service was fair. But he felt Zenith hadnt  dealt  with the claim fairly. He said given the main 
dealer garage  didnt  agree with the engineer instructed by Zenith as to the cause of the 
damage, Zenith should have investigated further. And as Mr M had sold the car on after he 
paid to get it repaired himself, our adjudicator  recommended that Zenith  should  pay Mr M 
50% of the cost of repair once he provided  them copies of the relevant invoices. He also said 
Zenith should pay 8% interest on the amount they pay Mr M.
As Zenith didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 24 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN89350952I think it would be helpful to look at what Mr Ms policy says. It says that Zenith will 
pay for any accidental damage caused to Mr Ms car. Under a section called 
exclusions the policy says Zenith will not cover  the following: losses that are not 
directly associated with the incident that caused you to claim, unless expressly stated 
in this policy; this includes but is not limited to loss of value;  wear  and tear; 
mechanical, electrical or electronic  breakdown  or failure; equipment  or computer  
malfunction, breakdown or failure.
It is this section of the policy Zenith relied  on in refusing to pay Mr Ms claim. Mr M 
said the incident that caused him to make a claim  was the heavy rainfall  that entered  
his car causing damage to the fuse box, which in turn caused engine  failure.  He said 
the damage wasnt caused by wear and tear. I think the following supports Mr Ms 
position:
The main dealer garage that examined the car supported Mr Ms claim. They said 
the damage wasnt a result of wear and tear but water damage.  They  told Mr M 
that it was likely rain water got in through the corner of the windscreen nearest to 
the passenger  side.
The fuse box was near the front passenger  side footwell that was soaked  as a 
result of the rain entering the car.
Mr M didnt complain  of any problems with the car until shortly after the heavy 
rainfall and discovery of the soaked  mat in the front passenger side of his car. His 
garage later found water in the fuse box. The proximity  in time of the rainfall and 
the damage to the car suggests  the two may be connected.
The engineer  Zenith  instructed to examine the car said it was in good condition 
and didnt say there  was anything wrong  with it.
Despite Zenith refusing  the claim on the grounds that there  was wear and tear, in 
response to our adjudicators view they said they would not refer to the loss as wear  
and tear but as a matter  of water / fluid ingress into the vehicle. The ingress could  
have occurred at any point and over a matter of time caused the connection to 
oxidise and subsequent corrosion.  Zenith  also said if the cars pollen filter wasnt  
fitted correctly water  could  bypass  it. They  went onto say water leaks are also 
reported into other areas of the vehicle  including the rear. It is my opinion  that the 
likely cause is moisture from the pollen filter has caused the failure, this is based on 
the volume of fluid and limited damage to the vehicles systems.
But despite  Zenith saying, water leaks are also reported into other areas  of the 
vehicle including  the rear,  the engineer they instructed  said that water ingress was 
noted near the front passenger side area and no other areas of water were  noted 
inside. I note that neither Mr M nor the main  dealer  garage said there was water 
ingress to any other part of the car. 
The engineer Zenith  instructed to examine the car said the water ingress into the car 
could be [as a result of] a blocked  roof drain. But that was only speculation,  as was 
Zeniths belief that the likely cause was the pollen  filter.  No engineering evidence was 
provided to evidence either theory.  Zenith had the opportunity to examine the car 
further to establish the cause of the water ingress but decided not to because  of the 
cost involved.  I therefore  dont  think Zenith provided any convincing evidence  to 
explain how the water  entered the car or to counter the evidence  of Mr M and the 
main dealer  garage.
Ref: DRN89350953The car was sold on so theres no longer  the possibility of it being examined. On the 
available evidence, I think its more  likely  than not that the damage to the fuse box 
was caused by water entering the car as a result of the heavy rainfall  Mr M 
described. That in turn caused damage to the cars engine. Zenith had the 
opportunity to examine the car further  but they decided  not to. I therefore think they 
didnt investigate the claim reasonably. So, I intend  to uphold this complaint. 
I understand that Mr M paid over £1,000 to have  his car repaired. To put things right,  
I intend to require Zenith to pay Mr M all the reasonable  costs  he incurred in having 
his car repaired as a result of the water  damage  to the fuse box. Mr M should  first 
send Zenith  copies of all the relevant  invoices  he paid. Zenith should deduct the 
policy excess, which I understand is £100, from the total to be paid to Mr M. I also 
intend to require Zenith to pay Mr M simple interest  on the amount they pay him, at a 
rate of 8% a year, from the date(s) he paid the repair costs until the date Zenith  pay 
him.
Mr M should be aware that if my decision remains unchanged once I issue  my final 
decision and he accepts  it, Zenith will record the incident against  Mr Ms driving 
record as a fault claim. Whilst the incident giving rise to the claim wasnt  Mr Ms fault, 
within the insurance industry where an insurer pays a claim but isnt able to recover 
their outlay (the amount  they paid out on the claim) from another party,  that claim 
gets recorded as a fault claim. I know the terminology is somewhat misleading, but 
that is normal insurance industry practice. Mr M will have to disclose the claim when 
taking out car insurance in the future  and its likely  that his future premiums will be 
higher as insurers consider drivers with recent  fault claims as a higher risk than 
drivers without such claims. I should also say that Mr Ms no claims bonus (NCB) will 
be affected. He wont  be awarded a NCB year for the 2018 policy year because  of 
this claim and his NCB years are likely to be stepped back. If my findings remain  
unchanged in my final decision,  and if Mr M accepts it, his NCB position may also 
impact his premiums when taking out car insurance in the future.
Further, given this matter  has been a source of distress and inconvenience to Mr M, I 
intend to require Zenith to pay him £150  compensation.  This is in addition  to the £150 
Zenith have already paid Mr M as compensation for the poor service he complained  
about. 
Finally, Ive already  mentioned that Zenith  upheld  Mr Ms complaint in relation to the 
poor service. I think the £150 compensation they paid him was fair as its in line with 
the kind of compensation our service awards for complaints of this seriousness. Im 
therefore not intending to ask Zenith to do anything further in relation to that aspect of 
the complaint.  
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr M accepted my provisional findings 
but Zenith didnt comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. 
Ref: DRN89350954my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Zenith Insurance  plc to:
Pay Mr M all the reasonable costs  he incurred in having his car repaired as a result 
of the water damage to the fuse box. Mr M should first send Zenith  copies of all the 
relevant invoices he paid. Zenith should  deduct  the policy  excess, which  I understand 
is £100, from the total to be paid to Mr M. Zenith should also pay Mr M simple 
interest, at a rate of 8% a year, on the amount they pay him from the date(s) he paid 
the repair costs  until the date Zenith pay him.1
Pay Mr M £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr M has accepted my final 
decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Zenith consider  that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr M how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8935095