K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading as Uncle Buck) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr M took three instalment loans from Uncle Buck. These are:
Loan Date taken Date repaid amount Monthly instalment
1 19/06/2017 30/08/2017 200 90.79
2 05/09/2017 02/11/2017 250 118.35
3 02/11/2017 17/01/2018 500 233.47
All three loans were  arranged to be repaid over three monthly  instalments. 
Mr Ms complaint has been  assessed  by one of our adjudicators. He sent a letter  to both 
parties where he didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint.  He concluded that Uncle  Buck didnt need 
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the loan to Mr M and didnt do anything  
wrong. 
Mr M didnt  agree with our adjudicator. He said that at the time the 3 loans were granted, he 
was in a debt management plan and would have had numerous  defaults but he was still 
allowed to borrow the money by Uncle Buck. He says it was irresponsible for it to do so.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN88683432the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  did a number  of checks before  it lent to Mr M. It asked him for details of his 
income and his normal expenditure. It gathered data from credit reference  agencies. And it 
then used this information to calculate how much disposable income  Mr M had left over each 
month. Uncle Buck also used the credit  reference  agency checks to gather some more 
information about Mr Ms financial situation  at that time.
The repayments that Mr M had agreed to make on his three  loans were  relatively  modest 
compared to the income that hed declared to Uncle Buck.  And based on what  he had told 
Uncle Buck  and the credit checks it carried out, the repayments appeared to be easily  
affordable. I dont think there was any reason for Uncle  Buck to doubt  the information  Mr M 
had provided about  his income and expenditure. So given these repayment amounts, what 
Mr M had declared and his lack of borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate for Uncle Buck to ask him for the amount of information that would be 
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  So I dont think Uncle Buck was wrong to 
give the three loans  to Mr M.
Mr M has told our service  that he was in a debt management plan at the time the loans were 
given to him and that he would have had several defaults on his credit file. He says Uncle  
Buck should  have picked up on this within its checks and not given him the loans.
I have seen results from the credit  checks that Uncle Buck  carried out at the time. These 
checks failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mr M was having problems 
managing his money. The checks  didnt show any concerning information  such  as 
bankruptcy or court judgements. And as our adjudicator has already mentioned, it shows  
one default and this on its own I dont think would  be enough for Uncle Buck  to have been 
alerted to carry out further checks.  
I do acknowledge what Mr M has said about  his circumstances at the time the loans were 
granted. But I think it is important to note that, generally, the information  a consumer might 
see, when they request a copy  of their credit file, might be very different to that seen by a 
lender. A lender  might  only see a small portion of the credit  file, or some data might  be 
missing or anonymised,  or the data might not be up to date. So, this may explain why Mr M 
says that he most likely had several  defaults at the time the loans were granted but this was 
not reflected in the credit search information collated  by Uncle  Buck. And it wasnt  a 
requirement for Uncle Buck to carry out thorough credit  checks  when it agreed to lend, rather  
it needed to carry  out proportionate checks and as I have already concluded, I think it did on 
the three occasions  that it did so. 
So in conclusion, I dont  think  Uncle  Buck was wrong to give these three  loans to Mr M.
Ref: DRN88683433my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8868343