K820x#14complaint
Ms G and Mr W have  complained about  the way Legal & General Insurance Limited  (L&G) 
handled their claim following damage  caused  to their home by a fire next door.  
Background
For ease of reading, I will refer to Ms G throughout  my decision, but this includes all 
submissions made by Mr W.
When I refer to L&G, this includes any agents appointed by it.
Ms Gs property  was damaged by firefighters as a result of a fire at the property next door.  
Firefighters broke in to tackle  the fire from Ms Gs property and as a result,  she made a claim 
on her home insurance for the cost of a replacement  door, replacement of an intruder alarm 
and cleaning  of the property. 
Ms G was unhappy with the way L&G handled her claim and complained. She said L&G had 
failed to recover costs  from the person responsible, hadnt dealt with the claim promptly  and 
had failed to renew  her policy  despite receiving payment from her. L&G offered Ms G £80 
compensation for making  a mistake in relation to her policy  renewal and paid £30 for service 
issues. Ms G didnt  think this was enough and referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought L&G had done  enough  but Ms G disagreed. In summary, she said:
Her complaint  has been misunderstood and the investigator has sided with L&G
L&G didnt make an effort to recover costs from the neighbouring propertys 
landlords insurance policy
L&G failed to share details of its investigation  with Ms G and so she believes  no 
investigation had taken place 
Had L&G carried out an investigation,  it would have found  that the landlord had been  
negligent 
L&G didnt deal with the claim quickly enough  and she had to wait two months for a 
replacement door
L&G failed to renew the policy  despite taking an increased premium and so Ms G 
was left uninsured  for several months
Ms G paid for a premium policy but didnt receive  the service  she was expecting
As Ms G has disagreed with the investigator, the case has been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  L&G need  to 
do any more and largely for the same reasons  as explained  by the investigator.  In my 
decision, I wont detail  every comment made by the parties, but I will summarise and 
address those points  which I consider to be key. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that L&G has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  And this is the test I have kept in mind whilst considering this case  
Failed to recover costs from  the third  party
Ref: DRN88213742Ms G says the investigator has missed a fundamental  point of her complaint which is that 
L&G has failed to recover costs from a third party (the neighbouring propertys landlord). 
However, L&G emailed  Ms G in January 2018  and explained it wasnt going to pursue  
recovery from the third party as it wasnt cost effective to do so and the tenant had run away 
- there was therefore  insufficient evidence of what caused the fire. The policy says: 
IV)We may pursue in your name,  but for our benefit and at our cost,  any claims for 
damages or other  costs.
In this case, although L&Gs policy confirms  it may pursue a claim against a third party,  it 
decided not to do so, and I dont  think its reasons were unfair. As the tenant had run away 
and there  was insufficient evidence of what caused the fire, it is unlikely L&Gs  costs  would  
be recoverable - and so the cost would not be justifiable.  Insurers  have a duty to consider 
the cost benefit  for all their customers as any claims could affect premiums for other  
customers. 
Ms G says she is unhappy that L&G failed to disclose its investigation report to her but I 
havent seen anything to suggest that L&G carried out a formal investigation (due to costs  as 
explained above) other  than what it explained in its email dated  January 2018. Ms G has 
provided email correspondence in which L&G said:
Following an investigation into the circumstances we took the decision
not to pursue a recovery as it was deemed that there  was insufficient
evidence to support  recovery  action. When  we establish that there is a
possibility that third party negligence has resulted in damage to our
customers property we endeavour to pursue recovery  of costs,
unfortunately this is not always possible.
I can see why Ms G wanted a copy of any investigation report following  this email. But L&G 
was referring to a consideration of the information it had at the time rather  than any formal  
investigation. As L&G explained  why it wouldnt claim costs from the third party in its email 
dated January  2018, I dont think it needs to do anything  more here.  
 
Failed to deal with the claim quickly  
Ms G says L&G didnt deal with the repair and replacement of the door quickly enough which  
left her in a vulnerable position  without  a secure  front door. When  it comes to delays in 
relation to repairs and replacements,  I have  to consider whether the delay was avoidable  or 
due to a mistake by L&G. In this case,  L&G arranged for the door to be replaced but on one 
occasion, the fitter was sick and then following this, a faulty door was delivered which meant  
the delivery and installation  had to be delayed until a replacement door had been ordered. 
This is unfortunate  for Ms G who had to wait longer  than expected but the delays were  
unforeseeable and L&G did try to get the door fitted  at the earliest  opportunity. 
I can see that Ms G asked whether they could appoint  their own fitter and L&G confirmed 
they could but that it would only pay the cost it would have paid to its supplier. The policy  
also confirms this under the general  conditions:
10. Our rights following a claim
I) We will at our option  repair  or replace the property claimed for using a repair 
or replacement supplier nominated by us. Where you prefer  to use your own 
Ref: DRN88213743tradesmen, we will need to agree this with you beforehand and the amount 
we pay you will not exceed what we would have paid our supplier.
Although it might have  been quicker for Ms G to appoint  her own fitter,  the policy is clear on 
what L&G will pay in this situation  and so I dont think L&Gs response to this question was 
unfair. The delays  werent  due to a mistake by L&G and were beyond their control  - so I 
dont think L&G has done anything wrong here. 
Failed to renew the policy leaving Ms G uninsured for several  months
L&G accept  that an error  was made  on its system and the policy didnt renew  when Ms G 
made payment. L&G offered £80 compensation  for any phone calls and inconvenience  as a 
result of this error and confirmed Ms G was covered  throughout  the whole period despite the 
error, which I consider  to be reasonable. If Ms G had made a claim,  she would have been 
covered from the date she made  payment for the renewal of the policy.  Ms G feels the policy 
start date should be the date she notified L&G of the error, a few months  later, which 
effectively would give her cover for a longer time.  But I dont think  this would be fair or 
reasonable as L&G confirmed the cover would have  been in place from the date of payment. 
Ms G is disappointed with L&Gs overall service  and I agree that there  were  occasions 
where the service  could  have been better. However,  it has offered a total of £120  
compensation, £30 of which it has paid and so it should now pay the remainder to Ms G. 
Ms G feels she paid for a premium service but didnt  receive  this. As Ms Gs policy  sets out 
what is covered under  the policy, I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect to be treated 
differently to other  customers  who may have  chosen  a product with different features and 
benefits for a different  cost. 
Overall, I consider there  were elements of L&Gs service which  could have been better but I 
can see that it has already offered £80 compensation  and has paid £30 compensation. And 
as I think this is reasonable, I dont think L&G need  to do anything  more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8821374