K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about Revolut Limiteds  decision to review and subsequently suspend  his 
account.
background
Mr A held a Revolut account. In March 2018, Revolut carried out a review on Mr As account.  
While they reviewed the account,  they suspended it.
A couple of weeks later,  Revolut informed  Mr A his account would be suspended indefinitely. 
They said he was in breach of the terms and conditions. And they said the money which was 
left in the account would be returned  to the sources of payment.
Mr A wasnt  happy. Hed also spoken to the person where the money  had come from, and 
they said they hadnt received the funds back.
Mr A complained to Revolut  but they didnt uphold his complaint. They referred him to 
sections 7.1, 7.2 and 19.1 of their terms and conditions. Mr A remained unhappy so brought 
the complaint  to our service.
Mr A told our investigator  hed made some transactions  involving cryptocurrencies  and hed 
sent a list of transactions to Revolut  to show them he was entitled  to the money. The 
investigator reviewed what had happened but didnt think Revolut had done anything wrong. 
She explained they were entitled to review Mr As account, and in suspending it she was 
satisfied theyd followed their procedures correctly.
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He wanted  to know why Revolut 
could suspend his account with no reason and said the money is still missing.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. I know  this will disappoint Mr A so 
Ive explained  my reasons further below.
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr A to realise he couldnt use his account. 
But a bank cant always guarantee that funds in an account are readily available.
Ive considered Revoluts actions when  reviewing and subsequently  suspending Mr As 
account. And, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied  they acted in line with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. I do recognise how Mr A feels about this  especially because he 
hasnt been given a proper explanation why. But having looked at the evidence, I cant  fairly 
say Revolut acted  outside of their procedures when it blocked  Mr As account.
I appreciate Mr A would  like a detailed  explanation  as to why Revolut decided  to close his 
account. But Revolut  is under no obligation to do this. Revolut can choose who they provide 
banking services to, just like Mr A gets to choose who he wants to bank with. However, Im 
pleased to see Revolut  pointed Mr A to the relevant terms and conditions  they relied  on 
Ref: DRN80792892when reviewing and suspending his account.  Ive also reviewed these terms and Im 
satisfied Revolut have  acted appropriately.
I do recognise that Mr A wouldve found  this matter frustrating. Hes left without an 
explanation and without his money. But Revolut have explained theyve returned the money 
which was left in the account  to the original source.  I appreciate Mr A says hes spoken to 
the source of money and they say they havent  received it. But Im satisfied Revolut did send 
it  so Mr A will need to pursue things with the third party.
I appreciate Mr A will be left disappointed.  But I want to reassure him that Ive made sure 
that Revolut did everything they were meant to do and followed the terms and conditions 
correctly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint against  Revolut  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8079289