K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that her claim was declined when she tried to claim a for a stolen 
mobile phone on the travel  insurance and mobile  phone insurance that were benefits  of the 
packaged bank  account she held with Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds). Miss S is also unhappy 
with the service she received when she attempted to make  her claim. She says that Lloyds 
should be held responsible for this and it means  that her packaged bank account was mis-
sold.
background
Our adjudicators looked into this complaint already they did not think  that Lloyds responsible 
for the service or the claim and they did not think that the account had been mis-sold.
Miss S did not agree with this and therefore her complaint has been passed  to me to issue  a 
final decision.
While I note that Miss Ss account is now with TSB, Lloyds has taken responsibility  for the 
sale of this account and for the sake of avoiding confusion I will be referring to Lloyds during 
the decision even  though  I am aware that Miss S initially  wrote  to TSB.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
And Ive used this approach to help me decide  Miss Ss complaint. Having done so I dont 
think the packaged account  was mis-sold  or that Lloyds  is responsible  for the service  of the 
travel insurance provider or mobile  phone insurance provided. Let me explain why.
I note Miss Ss comments  in relation to why she feels  that Lloyds should  be held responsible 
for the issues surrounding her mobile  phone  insurance claim. But I should clarify that the 
documentation for both policies set out that the cover is provided by other providers. Lloyds 
is not the provider of either of these  insurance policies. I am satisfied it would not be fair in 
the circumstances to hold Lloyds responsible for the actions of either  provider and I am 
satisfied it should  be for the provider  an entirely separate  legal  entity  to consider Miss Ss 
complaint about  the service they have provided  and that her claim was declined.
I appreciate that as far as Miss S is concerned,  her contract is with Lloyds. However, by 
agreeing to have  a packaged bank account which includes  various  insurance  and 
non-insurance benefits, Miss S also has relationships with the underwriters of the insurance 
policies and providers  of the non-insurance benefits.
I have carefully considered Miss Ss comments that her packaged bank  account  was mis-
sold to her because the benefits have not been  reliable and that she was assured that she 
would be able claim on them when  the need arose.  Miss S says the shortcoming of the 
packaged bank  account is that the benefits  turned out to not be reliable. However, I am 
satisfied this is an alleged  shortcoming  in the benefits themselves and how the claims have 
been assessed by the underwriters,  rather than in their sale. 
Ref: DRN84884492I have thought about Miss Ss comments that she was assured by Lloyds that she could 
claim on the benefits of the account. But I think most people would be aware that this would 
be subject to the terms and conditions of the insurance policies themselves, rather  than a 
blanket assurance that all claims  would  be paid regardless  of their circumstances. I 
understand that Miss S submitted details  of her claims to both underwriters, who considered 
the evidence before declining  them. So it wasnt  a question of a blanket exclusion, and Im 
not faced with a situation  of Lloyds having perhaps  failed to highlight a significant  term of 
either policy at the time of the sale. Had Lloyds explicitly highlighted to Miss S that not all 
claims could be guaranteed  to be successful, I dont think this out wouldve altered her 
decision to take out the account. So I dont think that Lloyds  mis-sold  the PBA due to this.
I note that there were  some delays in Lloyds issuing its assessment for this complaint and I 
can understand that this would be frustrating for Miss S but overall I do not think  that these 
delays merit an award of compensation.
my final decision
my decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8488449