K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc affected  his credit score  when it reported that his 
account was overdrawn for more  than six months.
background
Mr J says Santander notified the credit  reference  agencies (CRA) that his account had been 
overdrawn for six months and he says this is causing him problems.  He told us:
his bank account doesnt have  an agreed  overdraft limit, but he has the benefit of a 
£12 buffer and he says he was within  his buffer  for a year.
he set up a new direct debit in September 2018  to pay his council tax, but then he 
changed his mind and decided to make his payment online. He says he cancelled  the 
new direct  debit  mandate, but he didnt tell the bank  and it then charged him £10 
when the direct  debit  failed.
Santander started to apply daily overdraft fees which  he was unaware  of until it wrote  
to him in December 2018.
he contacted  the bank  and it agreed to waive  the overdraft charges as long as he 
made a payment to bring his account up to date. And he says that although the bank 
told him it wouldnt report the situation  to the CRA,  it then reported  that his account 
had been overdrawn  for six months.
he didnt know his account balance had exceeded his agreed buffer until December 
2018 when Santander  wrote to him and its not fair that the bank reported this to the 
CRA.
Santander rejected  this complaint. It said that Mr Js account was overdrawn from January 
2018 and Mr J wouldve  been aware of this from his monthly account statements. It says 
there was a failed  direct  debit in September 2018  - and it wrote  to Mr J to notify him of this  
and fees were charged to his account in accordance with the account  terms and conditions;  
an unpaid item fee and unarranged overdraft fees.  The bank says when Mr J contacted  it in 
December 2018,  it agreed to refund  most of the fees and charges as a gesture of goodwill 
and Mr J then cleared the remaining overdue  balance. But it says it is obliged to report true 
and accurate data to the CRA. And as Mr Js account had an unauthorised  overdraft  for six 
months it is unable to amend or remove  this reporting.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained how the balance on Mr Js account had accrued and that based  on the call 
recordings hed been able to listen to, he didnt think  Santander had done anything  wrong.  
The bank said it would  refund some of the charges - and it had done so, but he couldnt find 
any evidence that the bank had told Mr J if he made a payment to bring his account  up to 
date, it would make an amendment to his credit  file.
Our investigator explained that the bank must report true and accurate information to CRA  
about how customers manage their finances. And although Mr J said he wasnt  aware  of his 
account balance,  his regular account statements  had been generated in the usual way and 
he couldnt hold the bank  responsible for Mr J not viewing his statements and managing  his 
account.
Mr J disagrees  so the complaint comes to me to decide. Mr J says he set up and then 
cancelled the direct debit in the same month.  He says he didnt exceed his £12 overdraft 
Ref: DRN85245542buffer until September 2018 and he says the bank didnt notify him he had exceeded  his 
account limit until December 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have to tell Mr J that 
I think the investigator reached  the right outcome  here. And I think he set out the position 
very clearly in both his views, so theres  very little I can usefully add to whats already been  
said.
In reaching my decision Ive had the benefit  of the Mr Js bank account  records; Santanders 
account notes  and system  data; and several  call recordings of telephone conversations 
between Mr J and bank  representatives from December 2018.  Disappointingly, a recording 
of a conversation  that Mr J says took place  in January 2019 is no longer available.
I have, however, seen  copies of Mr Js online  monthly  account  statements and these show  
that:
following two small retail  transactions in mid-February 2018,  the account  statement 
balance was -£8.21.
theres no account activity over the next few months, but monthly online statements 
continue to be generated. And each one shows the account balance  is -£8.21.
on 3 September  2018, theres  a failed direct debit payment  this is the mandate  Mr J 
set up to pay his council tax. And although Mr J says he cancelled  the direct debit 
later in the month, he didnt do this before the beneficiary tried to collect  the payment. 
And the statement notifies Mr J that hell be charged a £10 fee which will be debited 
in mid-October.
the fee was charged to Mr Js account,  taking  the account balance  to -£18.21  which  
takes the overdraft  beyond  the £12 buffer on the account. This statement notified 
Mr J that hell now incur unarranged overdraft usage fees which  will be charged to his 
account the following month.
the statements  for November and December  are similar  they confirm the additional 
fees that will be charged in the following period.
Mr J says this bank  account wasnt his primary account and he didnt view the online 
statements  he wasnt aware of his account balance  until Santander wrote to him in 
December 2018.  But Santander has provided me with information from its computer systems 
that shows it sent Mr J regular email alerts. These alerts notified  him that he had exceeded 
his authorised overdraft.  And the email  address it says it used is the same one that Mr J 
provided to this Service  so Im satisfied that, on balance,  he received them.
Taking all this into account, Im satisfied  that Mr J knew,  or ought reasonably to have known, 
that hed exceeded his authorised overdraft limit; the alerts should have prompted  him to log 
in and review his account. And I cant hold Santander responsible for the fact that he chose 
not to look at his account. Santander  generated the online monthly statements for Mr J to 
view. It was Mr Js responsibility to view his account statements,  at least  periodically, and 
then manage his account accordingly.
In any event, Santander agreed to waive the fees and charges as a gesture of goodwill when 
Mr J contacted it in December 2018. And it asked him to make a payment to bring the 
account up to date. Although only part of the call recording from 28 December 2018  is 
Ref: DRN85245543available, Ive seen  the account  statement for January 2019 and I can see the account fees 
were refunded and a £20 payment was received from Mr J, leaving the account with a small 
credit balance of just under £2.
Finally, Ive looked at the matter of CRA reporting.  Ive seen no evidence that Santander 
gave any commitment about the reporting it would or wouldnt make to the CRA. At the point 
that the bank needed  to notify the CRA about  Mr Js overdraft, his account  had been  
overdrawn for a period  of six months  or more. Our investigator explained  that Santander is 
obliged to provide true and accurate reporting  to the CRA, and I cant  see that it hasnt  done  
this  its reporting represents  an accurate picture  of the state  of the overdraft at the time it 
updated the CRA. So I cant ask Santander to amend the credit file because I dont think it 
has done anything  wrong.
Ive noted Mr Js concerns  that his credit rating has been affected and presumably he 
worries about the effect it may have on his ability to take out new credit.  Mr J might be 
interested to know that he can place a Notice of Correction on his credit records.  The 
purpose of such a notice  is to allow  someone  the opportunity to add any explanatory  
circumstances that they would  like prospective  lenders to take into consideration when 
making lending  decisions. And if he wishes to do this, he should contact the credit reference 
agencies directly.
I know that Mr J will be disappointed by this decision  and I appreciate the reasons  why he
brought his complaint to our service. But Im satisfied that Santander didnt do anything 
wrong. I know this isnt the decision that Mr J was hoping for, but I hope he understands the 
reason Ive reached this conclusion.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8524554