K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a credit card. Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited, Egg at the time, mis-
sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 3 May 2019, which is attached  and forms part of
this decision, setting out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party  responded 
with any evidence or comments for me to consider.  So based  on my previous findings, and
in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Canada Square Operations  Limited  has to pay back  
to Mr B any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the premium.  I 
understand it has already done this so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2001 alongside  a 
credit card. Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited,  Egg at the time,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83402592Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
I currently dont think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr B says it wasnt made clear the PPI was optional and he wasnt given the chance to opt out of 
taking it. However  the PPI was taken out over the internet. And Canada Square has sent me copies of 
the screen shots Mr B wouldve seen at the time.  These include equally  prominent  yes and no 
options for PPI  so I think Mr B wouldve known  he had the option to opt out. Canada Square has 
told us that Mr B wouldnt have been able to continue onto the next screens  without making a decision  
on whether or not to take out the cover. 
Ive also seen  a copy of the applications report which recorded the answers Mr B gave online and this 
shows a Y in the box for PPI - this box wouldve had an N in it if Mr B had ticked  no to the PPI - so I 
think this reflected what he wanted at the time. So I think Canada Square made  it clear that Mr B 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant 
remember this.
As this was an internet  sale and theres no evidence  Mr B spoke to anyone  from Canada  Square 
while completing his application, I think this was a non-advised sale. This means Canada  Square 
didnt have to check if it was right for him but it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
Our adjudicator upheld this case  on the basis that he felt Canada Square didnt make  the exclusion  
about claiming on the policy for an existing medical  condition clear to Mr B at the point of sale. And, 
as Mr B said he was suffering from a medical  condition, he didnt think  Mr B wouldve  taken out the 
policy if this exclusion had been brought to his attention at the time. Canada Square disputed this and 
asked for evidence that Mr B had this condition  at the time.
While I agree that its possible the information Canada  Square gave Mr B about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been, I dont think better or clearer information  wouldve changed  Mr Bs decision 
about taking out the policy because Im not persuaded Mr B had a medical condition  at the time he 
took out the policy which wouldve effected his decision to take out the cover.  I say this because  on 
Mr Bs PPI questionnaire  he ticked  no to say he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition at the 
point of sale.  But in his complaint form he said he did. After contacting Mr B for more  information  and 
some evidence of his condition
Mr B told us that he was taking daily medication. But Mr B hasnt provided  evidence of this condition, 
nor has he provided any evidence to persuade me that his condition  is something which  he wouldve  
thought hed need time off work for. So Ive not seen any evidence of Mr Bs medical  condition from 
2001 when he took out the policy nor am I persuaded  that any condition he did have was severe  
enough for him to have  decided  not to take out the PPI had he known about its exclusions.
Ive also considered that Mr B chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the other exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. And Mr B didnt have any other means  of making 
his repayments had he suddenly been unable  to work  - so it would  have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.
This means  Canada  Square  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But Canada  
Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should  have told Mr B about that. Because Canada Square didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN83402593To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Canada Square Operations 
Limited to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B. But I do intend to tell Canada  Square Operations 
Limited to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand  it has already  done this, so  dont intend to award  any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr B to accept  or
reject my decision before 3 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8340259