K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2009. Mr and Mrs M says Bank  of Scotland Plc (BoS)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2009 Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy in connection with their mortgage during  a 
branch meeting.
The policy provided  protection for Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage payments in the event Mr M  
the policy was in his sole name - couldnt  work  because of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. The policy would pay a benefit of around  £560  a month and it would do so 
for up to 12 months per claim.  It cost around  £33 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr M was employed.  Its not clear what  his sick pay entitlement was, 
but at the very least I think he wouldve been entitled to statutory sick pay. Its recorded in 
the paperwork at the time that Mr and Mrs M had some savings at the time. And Mr M told 
us he was in good health.
BoS records show that because of the date of the sale,  this was a regulated mortgage. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mr and Mrs M chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate  for Mr M.
Because Mr and Mrs M, through their representative disagree, the complaint comes to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out.
Ive listened to what Mr and Mrs M have said about being told they had to have PPI. But 
Ive not seen enough evidence to support this. While BoS hasnt got Mr and Mrs Ms 
paperwork from the time of the sale, it has given us examples  it says were in use around 
the time.  And these show that a customer wouldve had to indicate they wanted PPI  
they were given a choice.  Ive not been  given sufficient reason to think  Mr and Mrs M 
saw something very different when they were sold PPI.
Ref: DRN89951692Im mindful too that BoS has provided  a record of the advisers notes from the meeting 
they had with Mr and Mrs M. And one note says the adviser had recommended  PPI to 
Mr M for peace of mind and that he and Mrs M would go away  and think  about  it. In my 
view this doesnt support  being told Mr and Mrs M had to have PPI.
So, for the reasons above I think its likely Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI and they 
did so without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, Mr M was eligible for the cover; he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions 
to or limits  on the PPI cover such as those for unusual  employment circumstances or 
existing medical conditions; and he and Mrs M seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr and Mrs M had some  savings at the time as recorded by the adviser. And Ive thought  
about this. But given Mr M was the main wage earner, they were  taking on a debt 
secured on their home and they had a young family, I think  Mr and Mrs M wouldve found  
the policy useful  had the insured risks become  a reality. So, I dont think  in the 
circumstances it was wrong for BoS to have recommended  PPI.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But I found above  that I think they chose  to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Because of this, I dont think Mr and Mrs M have lost out as a result  of having PPI, so BoS 
doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 June 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8995169