K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, is holding him liable for a loan 
of £40,000 which he didnt take out.
background
On 4 September 2017 Mr B got a message from a close  friend (who Ill call Mr D) through 
Facebook. In essence it said something like Hello, do you have online banking  and have  
five minutes to spare to help me out with something? Mr B said hed be happy to help and 
gave his sort code  and account number to his friend  (over a WhatsApp exchange)  so that 
£12,000 could  be paid into his account. Mr B would then help his friend out by making some 
payments on his behalf.
£40,000 was paid into Mr Bs account.  During  a four hour period, Mr B made more than nine 
payments or withdrew cash mostly within the same branch.  These transactions  included  one 
where he transferred  £14,000 to someones  account to pay for bitcoins. By the end of this 
process Mr B had transferred (or taken out in cash) nearly £48,000. He was out of pocket 
and funds had been transferred from his savings account to cover some  of the payments. An 
increase to Mr Bs overdraft limit had also been  applied for.
By about 3pm that day Mr B tried to log onto his account but couldnt.  He had to reset his 
passwords. He also very quickly  discovered a loan for £40,000 had been paid into his 
account that morning. Mr B reported this as fraud  and also  following further WhatsApp 
messages  reported this to the police. 
Halifax could show thered been  a loan application  for £40,000  made at 10:20  that morning. 
They believed Mr B had made that application and were holding  him liable for that amount. 
Mr B brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service.
He was able to show Mr Ds Facebook account had been hacked and hed been a victim of a 
scam too. None of the WhatsApp messages had come from Mr D but a fraudster.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the considerable evidence. This clearly showed  at the same time 
Mr B was using his mobile to access his banking, a third party  was using online banking  to 
apply for the £40,000 loan. However because of the notes  completed by branch staff whod 
helped Mr B make quite a few of the payments, she felt Mr B had always  known about  the 
loan. In that case she didnt think she could ask Halifax  to stop pursuing him for the loan.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome  and has asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. His representative shared the trail of WhatsApp messages showing Mr Bs 
conversation with the fraudster.
Before Mr Bs case was allocated to an ombudsman, the service considered and rejected 
another complaint from the person who was involved in Mr Bs fraud (who  it appeared 
pretended to be Mr D). Another bank had sent back £7,730 to Halifax.
In the interim, Mr B was taken to court by the person whose bitcoins  he was paying  for. 
Halifax had recalled these  funds as fraudulent and this customer was £14,000 out of pocket. 
A County  Court judge dismissed this claim  as he found Mr B was a fraud victim. A copy of 
the judgement  was made available in January  2019.  Mr Bs solicitors  shared this with Halifax  
but they said this didnt  change their mind.
Ref: DRN89206112An investigator with the service  reviewed this case a few months  ago and highlighted what  
he thought were discrepancies. He felt the evidence showed the loan application was being 
made online from a different IP address to the one Mr B was using  at the same time. It was 
from that IP address that Mr Bs passwords and email address were changed, and then later 
the overdraft limit was increased. All the evidence pointed to Mr B actually being in a Halifax 
branch at that time so he didnt think Mr B had applied for the loan. A full set of the 
WhatsApp messages between Mr B and the fake Mr D were  also shared with Halifax.
I completed a provisional decision on 14 November 2019. I believed the evidence  showed 
Mr B had not taken  out the loan.  Therefore Halifax  couldnt ask him to repay it.
Mr B was relieved by most of what had been  stated. However his solicitors on his behalf 
pointed out:
As Halifax  froze Mr Bs account,  he opened  another account in September 2017 with 
another bank.
Mr B confirmed  the £500  and £2,500 (mentioned later) were initially  paid into this 
other account. To manage  fees he had to pay on his Halifax account, Mr B then 
transferred those amounts into his Halifax account. £3,169.20  was transferred to Mr 
Bs Halifax account on 20 November 2017. This was the cost to Mr B to be able to 
close his Halifax account in 2017.  
Mr B had felt hed had no choice  but to engage solicitors to deal with the complexities 
of this case, including the court  case that arose. He wondered whether Halifax  could 
pay the £1,200 (plus  VAT) hed paid to his solicitors for correspondence  with Halifax.
To help me consider  what was fair I asked Mr Bs solicitors for a full rundown  of his costs.  
Mr B had paid a total of £5,730 (plus VAT) for the costs of his defence in a court case  
brought by the person  who didnt get payment for his bitcoins. This included  £1,125 for his 
counsels fee. This was on top of the £1,200  relating to the Halifax correspondence. Mr B 
also paid £500  for the initial advice hed been given. 
After Halifax had accepted the provisional  decision I shared the more  recent  correspondence  
with Mr Bs solicitors and the information  about  his costs. I asked them what they believed  a 
fair payment to reimburse Mr B would be. Halifax offered  to pay Mr B £1,200.
Although this was the figure  Mr B originally wanted  to be repaid, Mr B has since  confirmed  
he wanted me to consider this as part of my final decision.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties accepted the main aspects of 
my provisional decision, therefore what follows remains similar. My reasoning hasnt  
changed.
I wont be going through a detailed examination of all the facts  of the case. Some of the facts  
are laid out in our view dated  13 February 2018 and the supplementary email from our 
investigator on 24 September  2019. Ive also reviewed Halifaxs  detailed  banking records  
including how the payments were  made  and the evidence of the various logons to apply for 
Ref: DRN89206113the £40,000 loan. In addition I have reviewed the pages of WhatsApp messages between  
Mr B and what he thought  was Mr D. I also must take into consideration the judgement by a 
District Judge at the County Court dated  25 January 2019.   
In fact some of the facts arent in dispute. So for example:
During the day of 4 September Mr B logged on to his account using his mobile 
phone. Theres  no dispute Mr B was using his own mobile  and Halifaxs log backs 
this up.
The application for a £40,000  loan made  in Mr Bs name was carried  out online. This 
wasnt done using  Mr Bs mobile. This happened  only minutes after Mr B had logged  
on with his mobile to check whether hed got funds  from Mr D. At the same time  
using the same  IP address   Mr Bs passwords and email were changed.
When this was happening  at 10:20  on 4 September 2017  the WhatsApp 
messages show Mr B was in or around  the Halifax branch that he spent quite a few 
hours in that day.
Mr B sent Mr D a photo as had been  requested. It looks  to me as if Mr B was in the 
branch at the time.
The WhatsApp messages show Mr B was told what  to say if he was questioned 
about the money in his account.
Someone logging  into Mr Bs account  also applied for an increase to his overdraft 
limit which  allowed some of the payments to be made.  Along  with transferring £2,000 
from Mr Bs other account into his current account.
The payments  out of Mr Bs account were  authorised by him. In fact three members 
of staff within Halifaxs branch helped Mr B to make these payments throughout the 
morning.
Halifax has also got a copy of the judgement from the County  Court. I appreciate this case  
was different to the one Im considering  but some of the same legal principles apply. So Ive 
picked out some quotations  from the judgement:
it had struck  me on reading the papers that in essence the key to this dispute was whether  
or not Mr [B] was a victim of fraud.  If he was then he was not a contracting party 
accepts that the WhatsApp  messages,  if genuine, represent Mr [B] being taken for a ride by 
a fraudster
it has all the hallmarks of being  a genuine  conversation into which  Mr [B] was sucked into, 
and I have to say that, if this was a fabricated document, both Mr [B] and Mr D in reality 
would have to be in on it and. having  heard  from Mr [B] and Mr D today  I have to say that 
neither of them struck me remotely as the type of person who would be involved in a scam of 
this sort.
I had already decided that if these WhatsApp messages werent genuine, then this involved 
a considerable  amount of organisation on the part of Mr B, which  didnt at all match  the tone 
of the messages themselves. And its these messages that confirm to me Mr B was 
comprehensively scammed.
These affirm my own conclusion that Mr B was the subject of a detailed and considerably 
financially-lucrative scam. The District  Judge  described Mr B as nave and gullible. In an 
email to Halifax I suggested that hed definitely done some things which were daft but none 
of this is a crime. Everything  points to Mr B being  the victim of a crime.
Ref: DRN89206114Overall I dont think theres enough evidence to show  Mr B applied  for the loan of £40,000 or 
applied for the increase to his overdraft facility. As he didnt apply for the loan, then he cant 
be held contractually  liable for the debt. And of course, if Halifax  had not given the loan to 
Mr B or not increased his overdraft limit, then he wouldnt  have been  able to make the seven 
transfers and two cash withdrawals. 
The WhatsApp  messages  imply Mr D was going to pay Mr B £150 for helping him out. I can 
see there were cash withdrawals on 4 September of £500 and £2,500.  I do now know that 
Mr B initially  paid these  amounts into a new account. It was then transferred back to his 
Halifax account to enable fees and charges  to be repaid prior to closure.  Mr B accepts he 
cant benefit from those  funds.
In considering what Halifax need  to do to put things right, Ive also considered  whether 
Halifax was in breach  of its Quincecare duty of care? Under  Quincecare , a bank must refrain  
from executing an order for a customer if it has reasonable grounds for believing that the 
order is an attempt to misappropriate the customers funds. Obviously what happened  here 
seems odd.
Halifaxs own notes from one member  of staff states:
When I asked  for a reference to put, he said just put [Mr D] for every transaction even 
though it went  to multiple accounts 
And Halifax admits this was regarded  as suspicious and one member of staff actually 
reported his suspicions  as customer story  wasnt  making complete sense. But there doesnt 
seem to be any attempt  to find out what  was really going on or stop Mr B. 
In cases like this, its clear  the bank is going  to know more  about the different types of scams 
they see than their customer. It seems to me that this is a classic scam so its certainly 
unfortunate this wasnt picked up by Halifax. 
At the time Mr B brought  his complaint  to us, he was already  concerned about how hed 
been immediately  treated  when he raised  this as fraud with Halifax. Halifaxs  internal notes 
state: I understand why the customer is unhappy with the way X spoke  to him so I think  
they too accept  they may have been  overly harsh.
This has been a massively upsetting  time for Mr B. He was taken to court by a third party for 
payment of bitcoins which he didnt buy for himself or, as decided by the court, enter into a 
contract to buy. Hes been disbelieved for over two years and had to put up with being 
pursued for debts which he never took out. Halifax had an opportunity more than once to 
realise what the right outcome of this complaint was. Mr Bs solicitors  raised  this with them, 
as did we.
putting things  right
As I dont believe Mr B applied for the loan or the increase in overdraft  limits, then Halifax  
cant expect Mr B to pay for either  of those.  Theyll need to re-work his account  as hes had 
fees and charges added  to the account.  Basically Mr B shouldnt be out of pocket although 
any refund  must take account of the £3,000. This cash wasnt Mr Bs but he used it (with 
other money) to repay charges and fees in November 2017.
Ref: DRN89206115Overall I think  Halifax needs to pay Mr B £750  for the distress  caused and the impact this 
has had on him.
Ive also considered the fees that Mr B has had to pay to his solicitors. Halifax  offered £1,200 
which amounted  to the costs of dealing with his Halifax complaint. We dont normally think  
people need  to involve solicitors when  bringing  a complaint to this service but I can see that 
the complexities of this case made him feel otherwise. Plus it is clear that Halifax  were  
intransigent from the start.
Ive also considered whether any of the other  costs  were  down  to Halifax.  Im in no doubt 
that if Halifax hadnt granted the loan, none of this would have happened. But Ive not 
reviewed the basis  for Halifax granting Mr B a loan of £40,000 (or certainly who they thought 
at the time was Mr B). My decision has been based on the evidence  it wasnt  Mr B who 
made the application. 
I have considered whether Halifax could have done much to stop what happened.  I touch  on 
this point when  I say there was no real attempt to stop Mr B or find out what  was going on. 
But I cant fully fault Halifax.  So for example its not their fault the bitcoin seller took Mr B to 
court. Any decision  I make must reflect what I consider is fair and reasonable. Having 
considered this Im going to ask Halifax to pay half of Mr Bs fees related to his court case, 
as well as the £1,200  for the cost of fees relating to correspondence with them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Stop pursuing  Mr B for this loan which he didnt take out;
Stop pursuing  Mr B for the increased overdraft limit which  he didnt apply for;
Make sure all references  to this loan and overdraft limit are removed from his credit 
record; 
Refund any current account fees and charges that relate to this period of fraudulent 
transactions (taking into account the £3,000  which was not Mr Bs); 
Pay for Mr Bs solicitors fees being £1,200 and half of £5,730; and
Pay £750 compensation to Mr B for the trouble caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8920611