K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC did not tell her about  changes to her accounts and 
has provided her with poor service.
background
In April 2019 Lloyds  wrote to Miss P to explain  that itd realised it hadnt sent out letters 
about changes  to her savings  accounts  since 2013.  It said that to put this right and ensure 
she hadnt lost out it had credited her accounts  with additional interest  payments of £34.76  
and £240.65.
On 8 April 2019  Miss P went  into a branch and asked to see a manager. There  wasnt  one 
available so she was given an appointment to see an advisor on the 29 April 2019. Shes 
explained she was very annoyed that she couldnt see someone sooner, and visited  the 
branch again a number of times before this date to try and speak  to a manager. On one 
occasion she was invited to sit and wait for the manager before being told they werent 
available.
When she attended her appointment on the 29 April 2019 Miss P let the advisor know that 
she wasnt happy with the amount of compensation Lloyds had offered in its letter, and 
asked to make a complaint. But the advisor told her they didnt  have the authority to do that. 
So Miss P left and telephoned Lloyds Head Office.
A member of its complaints department tried to call Miss P to discuss her complaint, but she 
didnt pass its security  checks. Lloyds then sent her a letter  telling her it was making a 
payment of £125  to her account  by way of compensation for the inconvenience shed 
experienced. Its also since offered her an additional  £24 for expenses.  
Miss P wasnt happy with this response so she brought her complaint to our service.  Our 
investigator looked at what  had happened  and felt the offer Lloyds had made was fair. He 
thought that by crediting  her accounts  with £275.41  Lloyds had put Mrs P back in the 
position she would have been in if it had acted correctly. And he also said that the £125 
compensation it had offered her, plus £24 expenses, was along the lines he would have 
recommended.
Mrs P would like Lloyds  to pay her an additional  £50 compensation. But Lloyds hasnt  
agreed to do so. So the matter has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask 
Lloyds to pay Miss P any further compensation.
I appreciate Miss P is disappointed with the service shes received from Lloyds. But like our 
investigator, Im satisfied  that the interest  payments it credited to her  which  include an 
additional 8% compensatory  interest - are fair to put things  right following its mistake not 
notifying her about  changes  to her accounts.
Ref: DRN88319472I can see that Miss P found it difficult to discuss this matter with Lloyds. And I understand 
she made numerous trips to branch before being  able to speak with a member  of staff about  
it. I agree Lloyds could  have provided better service to Miss P at times. Particularly when  
she was invited to wait for a manager  before being  told they werent available. And when she 
was told that she couldnt raise  a complaint in branch. 
But I note Miss P has told us that Lloyds did schedule an in-branch appointment for her 
when she first visited on 8 April 2019. And I think this was a reasonable thing for it do. I can 
understand why Miss P was keen to discuss the matter  sooner. But I dont think Lloyds  had 
guaranteed that this would be possible if she attended the branch again before 29 April 
2019. And its not my role to scrutinise its waiting times or operational processes. 
Im sorry  to hear about  the distress  this has caused  Miss P, and I understand shes  going 
through a difficult  time. But overall, considering everything thats  happened, I think Lloyds 
offer of £125 compensation, and £24 in expenses, is fair and reasonable to resolve this 
complaint. So whilst  I know  Miss P be disappointed, Im not going to ask it to do anything 
more here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above. I 
think the action  already  taken by Lloyds is sufficient to resolve  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 November  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8831947