K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  card in 2000.
The policy cost was £1.00 per £100  Mrs B owed on her store  card. The policy would have 
paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each  month  if Mrs B couldnt work because  
she had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain my reasoning below.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs B that the policy was optional and get her consent before  
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs B says the policy was just added to her account. 
The policy was taken  out in store. I dont know what happened during the sale so Ive looked  
at the paperwork  available  to help me decide  whats likely to have happened.  
Ive been given a copy of the application  form that Mrs B completed when she took out the 
card and this includes  a section for PPI. Mrs B has signed to say she wanted  the policy. If 
she hadnt wanted the policy she couldve left this section blank. 
On balance I think its likely that FICL  would  have asked Mrs B for her agreement  to add the 
policy to her account and she chose to take it knowing she didnt have to. Although  its 
understandable that she no longer remembers this. 
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mrs B and I think  thats likely to be right. So it 
didnt have to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need  to make sure it gave 
Mrs B clear enough information about the policy to enable her to decide for herself if she 
should take the policy.
Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs B 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or an existing  medical condition.
Ref: DRN88412042Mrs B has told us that she wouldve received some sick pay from her employer. She also 
says she had some savings she couldve relied  on. Theres been some discrepancies 
between what shes told our service  and what she told the business about her sick pay 
entitlements, and about her savings at the time. Because of the discrepancies  here we 
asked for evidence to support what shes told us. But she hasnt been able to provide any  
considering the length of time since the sale I dont think  this is surprising. 
Given the discrepancies here, and in the absence of persuasive  evidence to support what  
shes told us, I dont  think I can fairly say that the PPI wouldnt have provided Mrs B with a 
useful benefit.  After all the PPI would have paid out on top of any employee  benefits she 
wouldve received  and until she was able to return to work, or until the outstanding balance  
was cleared  whichever  came first. And the policy  would cover the same term if she was to 
lose her job. So I still think the policy couldve been useful to her if she found herself out of 
work.  
And overall,  when taking  into account everything Ive seen  and been  told, I dont think  Mrs B 
has lost out as a result  of anything FICL did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.  
Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8841204