K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Mrs P bought the monthly premium  MPPI  at the same time as taking out a mortgage  in 
1996. The initial monthly premiums were  about £24 and, following a successful claim, the 
policy would have paid out about £400  a month.  The payments would have continued for up 
to 12 months had Mrs P been off work because of unemployment, accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mrs P disagreed 
the matter has come  to me to decide.
Because the sale was so long ago HSBC has been  unable to send us copies of the 
paperwork signed by Mrs P. Nor has either  party been able to give us much detail about how 
the MPPI  was sold. So Ive made  my decision  on the information that I do have.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website. Ive followed this in Mrs Ps case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, (as some of it is here), I
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to
have happened, in the light of the available evidence and wider circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint because:
Mrs P says that she was young and took HSBCs advice. But I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest that HSBC  didnt make it clear to her that the policy was optional or that she 
didnt choose  to take it. 
Mrs P says that HSBC  advised  her to take out the MPPI.  This means  that it needed to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that it was suitable for her needs. I dont know  what 
steps HSBC took, but, knowing what I do about Mrs Ps circumstances at the time, I find 
that the MPPI was suitable  for her because:
oMrs P was eligible  for the policy;
oMrs P wasnt caught by any of the policys main limitations and restrictions   such  as 
those affecting  someone  with a pre-existing medical condition;
oThe policy was competitively priced  by reference to other policies available  in the 
market at the time. And I havent  seen anything to suggest  that Mrs P couldnt afford 
the premiums. In any event, had Mrs P later felt that the policy  was unaffordable for 
her or that she no longer  wanted  it, she could have cancelled it at any time without 
further cost;
Ref: DRN82603252oMrs P says that she was in full-time  employment  at the time of the sale. And that she 
was entitled to sick pay from her employer  and had some  savings. So she says she 
had no need for the policy. Understandably, because  the sale was so long ago, she 
doesnt remember the exact  amount of the sick pay or how much her savings were.  
But the MPPI would  have paid out in addition to these and to any redundancy 
payments to which she may have been entitled, leaving them available  to help with 
her other expenses while she wasnt working.  And the policy would have  paid out for 
a longer period than the maximum sick pay entitlement she says she would have 
had. So I find that the policy could have  been of use to Mrs P.
Its possible that HSBC didnt tell Mrs P everything that it ought to have so that she could 
make an informed decision whether to take it or not. But, from what  Ive concluded 
above, I dont  think that clearer  information would have changed Mrs Ps mind and 
stopped her buying it. I say this particularly bearing in mind  the serious  consequences  
that could have arisen had Mrs P not been able to make  her monthly mortgage 
repayments. So I dont  find that shes worse off because  of anything that HSBC may 
have done wrong or omitted to do during the sale. So theres  nothing  I require HSBC to 
put right.
As Ive said above,  Ive carefully considered everything Mrs B has told or sent to us, 
including that she has been recompensed in respect  of other  payment protection  policies 
she took out. But I am required  to consider the facts and surrounding circumstances of this 
particular complaint without reference to any other complaints which  Mrs P or other people 
may have  had in respect of other similar policies. So this and Mrs Ps other comments dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8260325