K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that MCE Insurance  Company  Limited unfairly  cancelled  his 
motorcycle insurance policy as if it didnt exist and refused to deal with his theft claim.
background
Mr M renewed his motorbike insurance policy with the insurer  MCE via an online comparison 
website in October 2017. 
In July 2018 he made a claim to MCE as his bike had been stolen. MCE said Mr M had 
deliberately misrepresented where he kept his bike while at home. So it didnt deal with his 
claim and it cancelled his policy  as it if didnt exist. MCE kept the premium  Mr M had paid for 
the policy. 
MCE said that Mr M obtained quotes  online  using  both the option  of car park storage  
overnight and garage storage. The cheaper quote  was garage parking as this was deemed 
more secure  but MCE said this didnt accurately describe where Mr M kept his bike.  MCE 
said its policy clearly sets out the definition of garage storage. As Mr M chose the cheaper 
quote, MCE believed  the misrepresentation was deliberate  and reckless.  
MCE said it sent Mr M an email in April 2018  which he opened. This clarified the definition of 
storage even further  and so it said Mr M had the opportunity  to check  with MCE that his 
insurance covered  his circumstances.  It gave him a further opportunity  to contact MCE to 
check he was insured. As he didnt act on the email, MCE said its decision was correct.
Our investigator thought MCE hadnt  acted  reasonably. Mr M spoke to MCE a few days  
before he bought the policy online. When asked,  Mr M said he kept his bike in a garage 
underneath a block of flats. The investigator  thought  MCE had the opportunity to ask Mr M 
further questions  or clarify its definition of a garage and other  storage  options. But the agent 
didnt do this. Even though Mr M didnt buy his policy during this call, the investigator  thought  
it was obviously something  Mr M was aware of when he bought the policy through  MCE 
online a few days later. In other words,  Mr M wouldnt  have thought  there was anything  
wrong in stating his bike was kept overnight in a garage. So the investigator didnt think Mr M 
had deliberately misrepresented where he kept his bike.
Even though  Mr M had opened the email MCE sent in April 2018, the investigator didnt think  
this was enough for MCE to say Mr M had acted  recklessly. 
So the investigator recommended MCE do the following:
Consider the claim and settle it in full if there are no other policy terms that prevent 
this.
Provide Mr M with a pro rata refund of his premium. 
Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by having  the policy 
voided.
Remove any adverse  information from any databases that the voidance  has been
reported to and;
Provide written confirmation of this.
Ref: DRN82053542Mr M accepted the investigators findings.  MCE didnt agree. So the case  has been passed 
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a policy has been cancelled due to misrepresentation,  we look at the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentations)  Act 2012. This is the act that applied  to 
Mr Ms policy and what  MCE  should  follow when reaching its decision.  
To decide if there is a qualifying misrepresentation, we consider two things: did the 
consumer take reasonable  care not to misrepresent? And secondly, how clear and specific 
were the insurers questions?
MCE rejected the investigators view because it believes  Mr Ms actions  obtaining quotes 
online for both garage parking and car parking  shows  he deliberately misrepresented 
where he parked  his car. But I think the phone call Mr M had with MCE on 5 October  2017   
five days before - makes a difference in this case.  
The agent  called Mr M as his renewal date was approaching and he provided a quote. The 
agent asked Mr M where he parked his bike overnight.  Mr M said he parked it in a garage 
underneath a block of flats. The agent then asked Mr M what  the garage was constructed  of 
and gave him a list of options. Mr M said the garage was constructed  of brick. 
I havent seen  anything to show me what additional guidance or explanation Mr M was given 
when he answered  this question during his online application. The policy booklet MCE sent 
to Mr M after he bought the policy  gives  a definition for a garage as follows:
A locked structure  for housing motor vehicles constructed of brick, concrete,  steel  or 
stone which  is your private property. It is NOT  (MCEs capitals)
A rented or owned  space in a shared car park
A parking area in/under flats.
While I think the definition  of a garage is clear  here,  I think the description Mr M gave during 
the phone  call with MCE should have prompted the agent to make  further enquiries with him. 
Even though  Mr M didnt  take up the policy during  this call, I think it made a difference.  The 
agent didnt clarify  given Mr Ms description  of the garage as being underneath  a block of 
flats  that it might not meet MCEs definition of a garage.  I think  it was the agents  
responsibility to be clear here.
MCE said the price and excess when Mr M chose  car parking was much higher than garage 
parking. And so this indicates that Mr M deliberately chose the cheaper garage  parking 
option in order  to buy the policy.
However when Mr M called MCE it initially gave him a quote of £980 for garage parking. The 
agent offered  a £100 discount later in the call, bringing the price to £880. Mr M said he was 
hoping it would be less than this, so he decided  not to take up the policy  in this call. This was 
with an excess of £950.
Ref: DRN82053543MCE has provided further quotes  to show the difference in online quotes ranged  between 
£692.59 (for garage parking) with an excess of £950 and £1000.41 (for car parking) with an 
excess of £2,000. MCE said Mr M actually paid £745.88 for his policy  with garaged parking 
and an excess of £950. 
But I think this also shows that there  was a significant difference  between  the garage  parking 
quotes MCE provided in a call - and online.  The difference  was between £692.59 and £980. 
And so I dont think the difference  MCE has highlighted is enough to show that Mr M acted in 
a deliberate or reckless way by choosing garage parking  as there  was a significant 
difference between  quotes Mr M obtained  for the same  parking option.
The broker  acting on behalf  of MCE sent Mr M an email in April 2018 clarifying its definition 
of parking. I think this was an email MCE sent to a number of customers. It said in the email 
that if Mr M wasnt  sure if he was adequately insured, he should contact MCE. While I think  
the email was clear, I dont think it makes a difference  here. I dont think  its fair to rely on an 
email MCE sent six months after it sold a policy to Mr M as evidence he acted recklessly. 
So I agree with all but one of the investigators recommendations to put things right. If MCE 
meets Mr Ms total loss claim,  this means  Mr M owes  the full years  premium as his contract 
of insurance is for a year. So I dont think Mr M is entitled to a pro rata refund. The 
investigator has since explained this to both parties.  
I think MCEs decision has caused  Mr M unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience. For this I 
think it should pay him £200 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
MCE Insurance Company Limited  to do the following:
 Consider  Mr Ms theft claim and settle  it in full if there are no other policy  
terms that prevent  this.
 Pay Mr M £200 for the distress and inconvenience MCE caused by voiding 
his policy.
 Remove any adverse information  from any databases that the voidance  has 
been reported to and;
 Provide Mr M with a letter confirming this.
MCE Insurance Company Limited  must  pay the compensation  within  28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
If MCE Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN82053544Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8205354