K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out alongside mortgages  in 1987  and 1994.  Mr and Mrs T say Bradford & Bingley Plc 
mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why. 
1987 sale
The PPI policy was taken  out in Mr Ts name  only at the same time that Mr and Mrs T took 
out their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs T say they were scared into taking out the PPI policy as the member of staff 
asked them how they would maintain their repayments if they were sick or lost their job. I 
can appreciate how,  in retrospect, it may seem like the B&B representative was being unfair 
or pushy.  But I dont think its an unreasonable thing to ask if Mr and Mrs T had thought 
about what plans  they had in place if they were  out of work. And based on what  Mr and    
Mrs T have  said, it doesnt sound  like the representative told them  they had no choice but to 
take out the policy. Because of this, I havent seen enough to say its more like Mr and Mrs T 
were put under unfair  pressure  to take out the policy. 
The sale of this policy happened 32 years ago, so understandably theres no longer  any 
documents from the time. From what Mr and Mrs T have said, its clear they agreed to take 
out the policy. Based on their testimony  and with nothing to show otherwise, I think  its more 
likely they were aware they didnt have to take out the policy,  but chose to do so.
B&B didnt give a personal recommendation for the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for Mr T. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs T got the information 
they needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs T chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ts circumstances at the time, I dont think  
any likely  exclusions  or limitations  wouldve applied to him. So its more  likely that the policy 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
1994 sale 
B&B has been able to give me a number of documents  from the 1994 sale.  This includes a 
copy of the mortgage application that both Mr and Mrs T signed. This had a separate  section 
for PPI that had a brief description of the cover. I can see the word  yes has been  written in 
Ref: DRN85397712the section to indicate Mr and Mrs T wanted  to take out the cover. In my opinion, I think it 
was clear they couldve written no to decline  the cover if they didnt  want it. They went on to 
select the type of cover,  amount of benefit  and request for only Mr T to be covered. Looking 
at this, I think B&B made it clear they had a choice  in taking the policy. 
As with the 1987 sale, I dont think B&B gave Mr and Mrs T a personal recommendation for 
the policy. So it didnt  have to make sure it was suitable for Mr T. But it still had a duty to give 
them clear  information  about the policy.
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs T couldve been  clearer.  But again I think  
on the whole,  the policy couldve been  useful to Mr T. Hes told us that at that time he had 
around 26 weeks of sick pay available to him, as well as some savings. But the policy 
couldve covered  the mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr T was too ill 
to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in addition to any 
sick pay he was entitled to from his employer. And having the PPI meant Mr and Mrs T 
wouldnt have to go to the drastic  measures of selling the property to downsize it as theyve 
suggested.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T have also mentioned they were  incorrectly  sold an endowment 
policy by B&B and have  since  had a refund on this. So they feel the PPI should also be 
refunded. But these are two separate products and we assess  the sale of PPI on its own 
individual merits. This is what Ive done in Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Having considered everything  available to me, I dont  think B&B mis-sold either of the two 
PPI policies. This means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs T.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the 1994 PPI policy to Mr and Mrs T because: 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs T, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium on the 1994 PPI policy.  B&B should  also pay back to Mr and 
Mrs T any extra interest they paid because  of that.
B&B should  pay back to Mr and Mrs T the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr T can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN85397713The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got on the 1994 PPI policy that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8539771