K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs J says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on a store  account  in 1997.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00  per £100 Mrs J owed on her store  card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mrs J couldnt 
work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mrs J that the policy  was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could be applied  to the account.  Mrs J says the PPI wasnt  discussed with her and she 
was just told where to sign on the form, without any explanation.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Mrs J at the time of the sale and 
I can see that there is a section for the PPI. In this section there is a box to tick if PPI is 
required and I can see that the box has been ticked. If Mrs J didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have left the box blank. Mrs J has signed the application form which  suggests  it 
reflected what she wanted.
Mrs J has said she was just shown where  to sign and wasnt told what  she was signing up 
to. Whilst I appreciate her comments, Mrs J was making an application for additional credit 
and I would have  expected her to have read through the form before she signed  it. And if 
she didnt want to take out the PPI, I think she would have raised  this with the sales person 
at the time.
So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL  made it clear the policy was optional and Mrs J 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt want  it.
From looking  at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL recommended the policy  to
Mrs J. So it didnt  have  to check if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make 
sure it gave Mrs J clear enough  information  about the policy  to enable  her to decide for 
herself if she should take the policy. 
Ref: DRN82430822Its possible  the information FICL gave Mrs J about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  her better  or clearer information, I dont think  it would have 
made a difference. I still think she would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mrs J 
was eligible for the policy  and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a medical  condition  of which 
she was already aware.
Mrs J has told us she was entitled to sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. 
But this policy would  have  paid out in addition to her sick pay, and potentially for longer than 
she would  receive  full pay. Mrs J has also said she was covered by a policy which  was 
through her husbands employer but she hasnt been able to provide much  in the way of 
details about that cover. Ive considered this carefully  but as there  isnt any evidence  to show 
that this other policy was in existence  at the time of the sale or that it provided like for like 
coverage, this doesnt change my decision.
The policy would also have paid out if Mrs J had lost her job. While Ive noted  she has told 
us she had savings  she could have used, this policy would  have meant  she could protect  her 
savings for another purpose (Mrs J has told us she was saving to buy a house) or use them 
to cover other essential living  expenses.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think  Mrs J has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8243082