K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 2005. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc - trading as Halifax - mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr S says the PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.  Halifax  says it wouldve 
made Mr S aware he had a choice. And its provided a copy  of Mr Ss application form. 
It looks like the form was filled in and printed off by Halifax and was then signed by Mr S. 
The form has a section  for the PPI and this has been marked  with an x to opt for the policy. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy was compulsory. The form also contains Mr Ss 
personal information, such as his job, mothers maiden name and date of birth.  This 
suggests a conversation took place between Mr S and Halifaxs employee  and the form has 
been filled in based on what was discussed. So I think its likely Mr S was aware of the 
contents of the form and he chose to take the policy  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this. 
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr S says he would  have received sick pay benefits  from his employer. But the PPI would 
have paid out alongside any benefits he received. It would  have  also covered his 
repayments if he became  unemployed. And it also doesnt look like he had any other means  
to make his repayments   such as savings. I note Mr S comments  that his brothers would 
have been able to help out if he was unable to make his repayments.  I dont doubt they 
wouldve wanted to help. But circumstances change and this help cant  be guaranteed. So 
Halifax wasnt wrong to recommend the policy to him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr S now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN86638962I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8663896