K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms G says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Halifax has provided me with a copy of the credit  card application form completed at the 
time. I think its likely  the selection of PPI on the form was computerised  but I think its more 
likely than not that this was added following a discussion. Ms G has signed the form which  
indicates she wanted the cover and agreed to it. As Ms G was taking out further  credit, if she 
didnt want the PPI I would have expected her to raise this before she signed the application.  
So having  taken everything in to account, I think Halifax made it clear that Ms G didnt have 
to take out the PPI and she chose  to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this now many years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms G so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  from or limits to the PPI cover and she seems  
to have had a need for the cover. I say that because  whilst Ms Gs initial  sick pay was good it 
dropped significantly  after six months. And Ms G told us she had no other means she could 
have relied on. The PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months, in the event that Ms G was 
too ill to work, or if she lost her job. So I think Ms G would have found the policy  useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms G has said but these points dont change my decision.
I have looked  at all of the information available to me and for the same reasons as given  by 
the adjudicator,  and set out above,  I do not think the policy was mis-sold. So Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt need to refund  everything Ms G paid for it. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has already offered to give Ms G back  some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Ms G now Ive issued my final decision.  
Ref: DRN89528742my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint and make no award  against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 February  2019..
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8952874