K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited have treated him unfairly as they wouldnt 
pay his claim for clearing a blocked  drain.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision  a copy of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  
I issued a provisional decision saying why I thought the complaint should  be upheld in part. I 
invited Mr H and British  Gas to give me any more evidence  and information  they wanted  me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Mr H accepted my provisional decision and 
didnt have anything  further to add. 
British Gas disagreed  with my decision, they said in summary: 
They felt their terms and conditions were clear  that the drainage  policy was only to 
restore flow; 
Theyd already  provided a quote  on the repair before it was completed  which 
wasnt covered;
They recognised  they didnt clearly  explain why they couldnt  complete the repair due 
to the policy  terms but still didnt feel they should cover the cost of tanker  hire. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  for the same reasons.
British Gas havent given me any information thats  materially different to what Id already  
seen. But Ive carefully considered their points. 
1.Theyve said their terms and conditions were  clear  that the policy only covered 
restoring the flow to the drain. But Im satisfied  on balance  that the original work 
completed by the engineer hadnt restored the flow. And British Gas seems  to 
accept it too in their final response letter, when they say products had completely 
blocked the entire chamber and thats why the tanker was required.  It follows that I 
therefore consider  this should be covered under Mr Hs policy.  
2.British Gas have  said a quote had been provided before the tanker was used - but 
this differs from Mr Hs version  of events. I think it is important to make  clear that my 
findings and provisional  decision are made on a balance of probabilities - what is 
more likely, than not, to have happened   not on what definitely did or didnt happen.  
I recognise that theres a dispute  over when Mr H was told the tanker  cost wouldnt 
be covered. I think whats more important is whats contained both in the terms and 
conditions and on the receipt  Mr H received. This clearly shows different costs for the 
tanker hire and cleaning  of the drain. 
Ref: DRN817999623.I think its worth noting that British  Gas themselves have acknowledged they couldve 
been clearer when  explaining why the tanker  cost wouldnt have been covered. So 
taking all that into account, I think its reasonable to believe Mr H thought that the 
tanker hire was for unblocking   not cleaning. 
So this final decision confirms the findings and proposed  settlement as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct British  Gas Insurance  Limited to:
refund  the cost of the tanker hire paid by Mr H in full, adding 8% simple interest a 
year from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81799963copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that British  Gas Insurance Limited  have  treated him unfairly as they wouldnt pay his 
claim for clearing a blocked  drain.
background
In November 2017, Mr H contacted  British  Gas to claim on his home  emergency policy for unblocking  
his toilet/drain. British  Gas instructed a specialist drain engineer to attend Mr Hs property and clear  
the blockage.
At the end of November 2017, the engineer removed part of the blockage but told Mr H that he 
couldnt clear  all the pipework as a specialist piece of equipment would be needed to do this. British 
Gas said Mr H was told by the engineer  that this wouldnt be covered  under his policy  as the work  
was to clean the drain, and he was given a quote for this additional work to be completed.  
Mr H said at the beginning of December  2017, the engineer returned and the pipes were  completely 
unblocked. He said the engineer told him at this point that the work wasnt covered under his policy. 
But as hed taken time off work, and he felt his drain was still blocked  he felt he had no option but to 
pay for this additional work on this date. Mr H wasnt happy that hed paid additional costs to unblock  
the drain which he felt shouldve been  covered under his policy. So he complained  to British Gas. 
British Gas didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr H had been given a quote and had agreed 
to the additional costs.  They also said that because of the materials that had caused the blockage,  a 
specialist piece of equipment had to be used - and this would be classed as cleaning  not unblocking. 
Mr H didnt agree so he asked  this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought  that the policy documents  didnt  make it clear 
what the difference was between unblocking and cleaning the drain - and therefore Mr H wouldnt  
have known why he wasnt covered. She also thought the policy exclusions werent clear, and that it 
was reasonable that Mr H thought he was covered regardless of how the blockage was cleared.  She 
also felt that Mr Hs version of events was plausible  - and that he agreed to the works and was going 
to follow-up with British  Gas at a later date. So she recommended British  Gas refund Mr H the repair 
costs charged by the engineer.
British Gas didnt agree.  They said that the policy terms were clear  that cleaning of drains wasnt 
covered. And they provided  the invoice Mr H had paid which detailed  the additional  costs.  As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.    
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive decided to uphold  it in part - Ill explain why. 
cleaning or unblocking
Mr Hs complaint is, essentially, that he feels hes paid for additional work  that shouldve  been 
covered under his policy. He feels that regardless  of the equipment used,  if the drain doesnt  have 
free-flow this should be treated as unblocking not cleaning.  
Ive looked at the policy  general conditions and I can see they say that repairing  and unblocking 
drains to restore flow is covered although cleaning  and descaling your drains  isnt. However, it isnt 
clear what  the definitions for unblocking or cleaning are. It also doesnt say that using  a rod for 
example, would be treated  as unblocking but using a tanker would be treated as cleaning. So I think  
its reasonable  that any process completed by British Gas to restore optimum  flow  - regardless of 
the equipment  used  would be covered. 
Ref: DRN81799964Ive seen evidence that the drain engineer noted  when he came to unblock the drain that he wasnt 
able to complete the repair. Ive also seen that British Gas said in their final response letter that 
products had completely blocked the entire chamber which is why a specialist tanker was needed  to 
fix the problem. However, I cant see that the engineer mentioned cleaning in their report to British  
Gas, only that the blockage wasnt covered due to earth being  found down drain, which would  
indicate rodent problem or abuse of drain. Ive looked  at the policy and I cant  see theres  any 
exclusion for this, or that these  circumstances  would be treated as cleaning  rather than unblocking. 
So I think its reasonable that this would be covered. And I cant see anywhere in the policy that 
confirms there will be extra costs involved  if a repair cannot  be completed using standard  equipment. 
type of blockage
British Gas said that due to the material blocking the drain, the process was classed as cleaning 
rather than unblocking. However,  I cant see anything in the policy  documents which  says if there is a 
specific cause of the blockage - in this case earth or rubble - that this wouldnt be covered. I also cant 
see any notes showing  that British Gas undertook an investigation to identify  what  the actual cause of 
the blockage was. So I dont think  its fair for them to treat Mr Hs claim  as cleaning rather  than 
unblocking. 
Ive also seen  that when British Gas contacted the specialist  company, they said that Mr H wasnt 
covered due to the amount of material blocking  the drain. However, I cant see in the policy 
documentation that there is a restriction on the amount  of material blocking the drain. And I think  its 
reasonable to think that if there was a significant amount of material restricting the flow that couldnt 
be cleaned with a rod or material that needed clearing as the engineering company said in March 
2018 - that this would be treated as unblocking rather than cleaning. 
accepted quote
I can see that the specialist engineer noted  that Mr H had paid for the works and had already been 
given a quote  so he was aware of the costs.  But its not clear what was discussed at the original 
meeting with Mr H - only that it wasnt  going to be covered.  So I cant  say if Mr H was told that the 
additional works would be used for cleaning  or just that different equipment was needed. However, I 
think its reasonable  that Mr H felt obligated - after taking time off work, and once the tanker had 
arrived - to pay this fee to clear the blockage. And that he could  then claim this back from British  Gas 
afterwards - as he tried to do.
Ive seen the receipt  for the work undertaken on Mr Hs drain and I can see that it is split in two parts. 
One part is for the use of the tanker to remove the earth within the drain,  and the second part is for 
cleaning the drain. And on this basis, I think that the tanker hire for removing the earth should be 
treated as unblocking which  is covered under Mr Hs policy, whilst the second part relating  to cleaning  
wouldnt be covered. So I think its fair that the cost of the tanker  hire should be refunded to Mr H.    
I understand that Mr H will be disappointed  with my decision as he wanted a refund of all the 
additional costs he incurred. However,  the receipt  from the engineer  does state that some of the cost 
was due to cleaning of the drain  - which  isnt covered under his policy. And I think Mr H wouldve been 
aware that although he hoped to claim  all the costs  back  when he agreed  to pay, that he might not be 
able to. So I dont think it would  be fair to ask British Gas to refund  the cost of this. 
 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that British Gas Insurance Limited should refund the cost of the tanker hire 
paid by Mr H in full, adding 8% simple interest a year from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr H to accept  or reject my 
decision before 1 February 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8179996