K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about a payment he made  to a website using his debit card with 
TSB Bank Plc. He says he didnt  get what he paid for, so he wants TSB to refund his money. 
He also complains about TSBs handling of the matter.
background
In January 2017, Mr C went online and bought tickets for an event which was happening  
later that year. He paid just over £700 with his TSB debit card.
A couple of weeks before  the event, Mr C got in touch  with the website as he hadnt received 
his tickets. He says the website was unhelpful,  and he ultimately  didnt get the tickets. He 
asked TSB to get his money back. 
TSB credited Mr Cs account temporarily while it looked into the matter, and made enquiries 
of the website. The website said it had sent Mr C his tickets by e-mail, to the address he had 
provided when  hed bought them. It also provided copies of documents  which  it said showed 
what it had done.  
TSB took the money  for the tickets  back out of Mr Cs account. Mr C complained.  TSB noted 
the e-mail  address the website said it had sent the tickets to was one character different 
from Mr Cs correct e-mail address. But it said the website had told it that this was the 
address Mr C had provided when  hed placed his order. TSB thought the documents the 
website had provided were enough to show that Mr C had received the service hed paid for, 
so it wouldnt refund him. 
Our investigator agreed with TSB. She thought it was right to have  tried to charge back,  or 
challenge, Mr Cs payment, but the information the website had provided to TSB in response 
was enough for it to have turned down his claim.
Mr C didnt accept that conclusion and asked for it to be reviewed. He said hed bought the 
tickets through  his account with the website, which he had logged  into using his correct e-
mail address. He also said hed contacted the website  repeatedly  before the event and 
followed its instructions  to access the tickets but got nowhere, and TSB had delayed his 
case on purpose so he wouldnt get a refund. He provided details of some  press articles, and 
said this website has scammed a lot of people and is under investigation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The tickets  in question  were for a special occasion, and its clear that Mr C feels very 
strongly about this matter.  Amongst other  things,  he has said he wants compensation for the 
fraudulent behaviour of the website  and the distress  it has caused him. The website isnt 
covered by this service,  and TSB isnt responsible for the service the website provides. So I 
cant fairly require TSB to compensate  Mr C on this basis.
I can, however,  consider whether TSB did enough  to try to get Mr Cs money back after he 
told it what had happened, as well as its overall handling of the matter. 
Ref: DRN82098712Mr C told TSB he hadnt got what hed paid for. In the circumstances, I think TSB was right 
to start a chargeback through the websites bank. There was no guarantee, though,  that this 
would be successful, and I think TSB was clear about that when  it wrote  to Mr C in July 2017  
explaining what it was doing.
The website defended the chargeback. It said it had provided the service  Mr C had paid for, 
and provided records  which  it said demonstrated  this. Ive seen copies of those documents.  
They include  a copy of the transaction details, an e-mail confirmation of the purchase,  an e-
mail with a link through which Mr Cs tickets could  be downloaded,  and a copy  of one of the 
tickets. 
The e-mails were sent to an address which  is slightly different to Mr Cs address. One 
character is different. This would explain why Mr C didnt receive confirmation of his 
purchase or the link to download his tickets.  He says the mistake is down to the website, and 
that he ordered the tickets through his account  with it  which has the right e-mail address.
Its not clear what went wrong. But TSB had to take a view about whether to challenge the 
matter again,  once it had received the information  from the website. It decided  not to do so 
and, in the circumstances, I think that was reasonable. 
I take this view because  I dont think TSB could successfully have argued that the mistake in 
Mr Cs e-mail address was most  likely the result  of a computer error by the website,  rather 
than a minor  typo by Mr C. The evidence it received from the website said the e-mail 
address to be used  for the tickets  was the one with the mistake  in it  and thats the address 
that was used to supply  the tickets. I dont  find any of the later screenshots Mr C provided 
show the mistake with his e-mail address was down to the website, such that TSB should  
have revisited the matter.  
I find Mr Cs unsuccessful attempts to sort things out with the website in the weeks before 
the event  while clearly  very frustrating for him  arent relevant to TSBs decision about the 
outcome of his dispute. TSB couldnt  have got his money back on that basis.     
Mr C has provided links to several  articles in the press about  the website in question and its 
practices. He considers  these show it has a track record of fraudulent behaviour. I have 
taken them into account  but tickets  being sent to the wrong  e-mail  address isnt a common  
theme. In any case, I must decide  each case on its individual merits. In this case, I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that TSB should  refund Mr C because  he has been a victim of 
fraudulent practice  by the website.
Mr C has also complained  about  TSBs handling  of this whole matter  and the time it took. Its 
not unusual for this sort of dispute  to take some time to resolve. The underlying  dispute  is, 
after all, with the retailer, rather than the bank.  
I can see that Mr C made a number of phone calls to TSB, and Ive listened to the recordings 
TSB has provided. Many of the calls were because  Mr C wanted updates on what was 
happening with his dispute.  But I dont  think  this means the level of service he received from 
TSB fell short. I find staff tried to help, but there  was little they could do while  the matter was 
being investigated and while TSB was waiting for a response from the website.
For these reasons, I cant fairly require TSB to refund Mr C, or to pay him any compensation.
Ref: DRN82098713my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8209871