K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) acted unfairly  and unreasonably by failing 
to give him information  about the increase in his travel  insurance premium due to his age. 
He wants matters put right.
background
Mr F had a travel insurance policy  with UKI. He said that when he renewed  it in January 
2019, UKI failed to tell him that within that letter  the additional cost to be covered once he 
reached the maximum age limit, though  it did tell him the current cost of the policy and the 
upgrades taken out before and the price he paid last year. Mr F was unhappy as he didnt 
find out about the need for age extension cover until after hed renewed  and he wasnt  given 
the opportunity  to look for alternatives  as a result. It cost him additional money to be 
covered.
Mr F complained to UKI. It said that the renewal letter stated prices based on the upgrade  he 
had purchased the previous year, but said it was subject to change if further screening was 
necessary or the terms and conditions had changed (such as the maximum age limit), which  
was why it recommended customers contacted it. The additional trip extension cover  Mr F 
purchased (to cover trips of up to 90 days) cost more due to a general price increase, but it 
was necessary to buy an age extension to be covered once the maximum age limit under 
the policy had been reached. UKI said that it couldnt automatically note that the age limit 
had been reached and put that information in the renewal letter if the age extension  hadnt 
been previously  purchased.
Mr F complained to us. UKI said it had recently reduced the maximum age limit and charged 
the same  to all policyholders who were aged  above  the limit, so the cost charged was fair 
and reasonable.  The investigators  view was that UKI was at fault. While this service doesnt  
tell insurers how much to charge, the issue was about the information within the renewal 
letter  the investigator thought that UKI shouldve mentioned  the additional age cover cost 
as it knew Mr Fs age. In his view, UKI knew that the premium  quoted  within the letter  wasnt  
correct as a result as Mr F would have to pay more due to his age and that wasnt fair or 
reasonable. He said the point of renewal  letters  was to give the policyholder time to reflect 
and explore other options and the investigator thought  that Mr F hadnt been given enough 
time to consider  his position  due to the information  within the renewal letter.  He said that the 
additional age premium should  be refunded with interest.
UKI disagreed. It said that all the policyholders  had been told in 2018 about the changes to 
the policy about age which came into effect  from 3 January 2019 through  a mailshot in 
November 2018;  in particular, it said that theyd been told about  the increase to the 
maximum age limit and the cost for those  above the limit to be covered. UKI said that as a 
result the information  didnt need  to be in the renewal letter. The investigator  said the 
information shouldve  been in the renewal letter. UKI said Mr F wouldve been sent a 
reminder about the changes in February 2019,  so had been told twice.  The investigator  
again didnt change his view, and said that the cost shouldve been in the renewal letter as 
UKI knew Mr Fs age. He thought that it wasnt  unreasonable for Mr F to think  the age 
premium was included  within  the quote  UKI had sent him, particularly as it had increased.
Ref: DRN87597002UKI said that the renewal letter was an invitation to treat (a legal term relevant to contract  
law) and it couldnt  give details for additional  cover not as yet taken out due to the insurance 
regulations set out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). UKI also said that it was 
possible that the policyholder had made their own arrangements but taking out a new 
upgrade was a new transaction,  and not covered by the renewal rules. The investigators 
view didnt change.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that a renewal  letter is an invitation to treat, but equally the FCA has set out clearly  
the rules that insurers must follow when sending renewal letters to consumers, and there are 
many requirements that must be following. I dont accept that the regulations prevented  
proper disclosure to Mr F of the actual cost of renewing his insurance policy as UKI 
suggests.
ICOBS 6.5.1R sets out some of the rules  for renewal letters as UKI says,  and in my view the 
most relevant part for Mr Fs case is this:
(2) In this section, renewal means carrying forward a policy, at the point of expiry  and as a 
successive or separate operation of the same nature and duration as the policy, with the 
same insurance intermediary or the same  insurer.
(3) The firm must provide to the consumer the following information  in good time before the 
renewal:
(a) the premium to be paid by the consumer on renewal;
(b) in a way that is consistent with the presentation of (a) so that they can be easily 
compared:
(i) except where (ii) applies, the premium  for the policy which  the firm proposes to renew, as 
set out at the inception of that policy;
(5) The firm must communicate the information  in (3) and (4):
(a) clearly and accurately;
I dont agree with UKI that the regulations didnt allow them to tell Mr F at renewal that hed 
need to pay an additional age premium  for the first time in the history of their policy.  I think 
the phrase same nature and duration is important in the circumstances of this case  the 
policy Mr F was offered was the same as the policy he had previously, including  the trip 
extension upgrade. The only difference was that due to his age, unless he paid the 
additional premium,  the policy wouldnt cover him at all. Once  the extra premium was paid, 
the policy applied  as it did before. So in the circumstances  of this case  I dont think the 
renewal letter informed  Mr F about the true cost of his policy.
Ref: DRN87597003When I consider ICOBS 6.1.5, it says A firm must ensure that a customer is given 
appropriate information about  a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the 
customer can make an informed  decision about the arrangements  proposed and goes on to 
say this includes the price  of the policy. I think this means communicating  the correct  
premium clearly and prominently on the renewal  documents, and in Mr Fs case, the correct  
cost of renewing. In this case the age extension  is different to other  upgrades as Mr Fs 
policy was worthless without it because he wouldnt have been  covered under the policy  at 
all.
UKI says that it had sent Mr F mailshots about  the changes to the age limits and so he was 
aware of the additional premium. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  in this 
case that Mr F would  have this particular  change in mind at the point his insurer wrote to him 
about renewing his policy.  I note that the letter  about  the change  was sent in November and 
the renewal letter didnt go out until the following January. And the renewal letter didnt  
remind Mr F about the change. The second  mailshot wasnt sent until after the renewal had 
taken place.  
I also note that Mr F wouldnt have been  able to go back and check  the terms of his policy  
from the previous  year as the age limit had been reduced just before his policy was due to 
renew  the information he needed  wasnt within the policy, let alone highlighted as a 
significant limitation of cover. So I dont think Mr F was able to make an informed choice in 
the circumstances of this case.
I think Mr F was denied  a reasonable opportunity to look elsewhere as his renewal  letter 
didnt tell him the renewal cost of the policy for him due to his age. I think  the fair and 
reasonable redress is the refund of the extra age premium paid with 8% simple interest a 
year from the date the premium was paid to the date of refund.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and UK Insurance Limited should refund Mr F 
the additional age premium he paid in 2019, together with interest  as outlined above. 
If UK Insurance  Limited thinks a deduction on the interest paid is required under the tax 
rules, it should provide  Mr F with a tax deduction certificate when paying the refund. The 
refund should  be paid within 28 days of notification of acceptance of the final decision by Mr 
F to UK Insurance  Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8759700