K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T took out the PPI at the same time as applying for the credit  card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr T disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr T says he didnt  request PPI and neither did he knowingly agree to it. However, Ive seen 
a copy of the application form that Mr T completed. There is a section for PPI with a Yes  
and No box that could  be ticked to either  request or decline the PPI. Mr T has ticked the 
Yes box. He could  have  ticked the No box if he hadnt wanted the policy.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it would not be surprising if Mr Ts recollection  of 
events has faded.  Looking at the available evidence I consider that Mr T would have known 
from the wording and layout of the form that he had a choice about buying the policy.  It 
seems to me that he decided to take out the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he 
no longer remembers  doing so.
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Mr T, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide Mr T with enough  information for him to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr T cant remember if he would have received any sick pay from his job. And he didnt have 
any other means, such as savings,  to fall back on. So I think the policy could have provided 
a useful benefit to him at what would have  been a difficult time.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information about  the policy as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr T wasnt affected  by any of 
those things. As I think that he had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  think  
that further information would have caused him to change his mind.
This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr T about that. 
Because Capital  One didnt tell Mr T, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN81976172To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8197617