K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he was unaware he had the PPI and it wasnt  offered when he took out the 
credit card.  Halifax has given me a copy of the signed credit  agreement from the time of 
the sale. In this, there was a separate section for PPI that had a yes and a no option. 
Mr C has signed  the yes option  and I think both choices were equally prominent. So I 
think Halifax made it clear that Mr C didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he cant remember this.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. 
Mr C wouldve received  six months  at full pay followed  by six months at half pay if he 
was sick. But the policy couldve covered  him for up to twelve  months per claim if he was 
too ill to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve been in 
addition to his sick pay. As he received half pay for a period of time and the policy 
provided additional cover, I think he couldve found it useful. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
This means Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Halifax didnt  tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN87831942what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr C any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr C the difference between  
what Mr C owes  and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr C 8%* simple  interest  if he 
paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8783194