K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Cabot Financial  (Europe) Limited representing Cabot  Credit  
Management Group Limited (Cabot Credit) are pursuing him for a debt that he doesnt  
believe is his. He would like Cabot  Credit to prove the debt is his, to write  off the debt and to 
amend his credit file.
background
Mr E says Cabot Credit contacted him in September 2015 about  an outstanding debt owing 
on a credit card. Mr E says the card isnt his. And he asked Cabot Credit to show  what  
identification was used to set up the account.  He says the only documentation  Cabot Credit 
has been able to give him is a copy of the credit agreement. He doesnt feel that is sufficient  
proof that the account, and subsequent debt, are his.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She felt on a balance  of probabilities that Cabot  
Credit had shown  the debt was Mr Hs. And so were  not wrong to pursue Mr H for the debt
Cabot Credit said it records  showed  the account  was opened in September  2009 and was 
active until October 2011 when a default  was put on the account. It said regular payments 
were made until March 2011. The registered address was the one that Mr H currently  lived 
.at. And according to public records had done so since 2006. It believed  the account,  and 
therefore the debt,  was Mr Hs
Cabot Credit accepted  this view but Mr E didnt. He said he wouldnt accept the debt was 
his. He queried why, if Cabot Credit could provide a copy of the original  credit  agreement,  it 
couldnt provide  other identification used  in the credit application. Finally he said he was 
living at a different  address at the time the credit was taken out.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change her view.  She said identification 
documents arent always sought when applications  for credit card accounts  are made. She 
didnt feel further  identification documentation  was needed to prove Mr Hs liability  for the 
debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E feels  strongly about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  
the same  conclusion as our investigator.
I should make it clear that in this decision I can only look at what  Cabot Credit has done. I 
cant consider the actions  of the credit  provider as this complaint isnt about that company.
Theres no dispute that Cabot Credit is pursuing  Mr E for an outstanding debt on a credit 
card. The only information  that it has been  able to give us on the debt is the original credit  
application. That shows an address which Cabot Credit said public sources  of information 
such as a credit report and the Land Registry confirmed as Mr Hs from 2006 to the present 
time. And its the address  Mr H put on his application to us.
Mr H has told us he was living elsewhere  from 2006  2012  and that during this time his 
property was rented out. But he hasnt given us any evidence of this.
Ref: DRN85607372The credit application  also has the same date of birth that Mr E put on his complaint  form to 
us. And the signatures on both documents are similar.
Cabot Credit has given  us copies of transactions  on the account. From this I can see 
transactions and payments were made.  It has also said that correspondence on the account  
wouldve gone to Mr Hs address. I havent  seen copies of any correspondence  but I think its 
likely that there would have been  at least some - or example to confirm  the opening of the 
account, and the issue  of the card linked  to the account. From the information Ive seen 
these would have  been correctly addressed and in Mr Hs name.
I have to consider  if Cabot  Credit has done  anything  wrong.  And from what Ive seen I dont 
think it has. I think it has sufficient evidence to link Mr H to the debt it is pursuing. So on that 
basis I cant reasonably  ask it to write off the debt and to amend Mr Es credit file as Mr E 
has requested.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8560737