K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  (AXA) added  exclusions to his private  
medical insurance (PMI) policy in respect of pre-existing medical  conditions  and about the 
time it took to approve cover for his back pain.
background
Mr C has private  medical insurance with AXA through a company scheme.  He enrolled in the 
scheme in August 2017. He joined the scheme  on a fully underwritten basis,  so he was 
required to complete an application form and provide details of his medical history and that 
of his dependants who were also joining the scheme. On this form Mr C stated hed suffered 
with back pain from 2015. So AXA agreed  to insure  him but applied  an exclusion to the 
policy so there was no cover for his back condition. 
In May 2018  Mr C contacted AXA for approval of a specialist  referral to investigate  the back 
pain he was experiencing. AXA declined  to cover this referral because  of the policy  
exclusion regarding investigation  or treatment of back pain.
Mr C raised a complaint  about the exclusion being added  to his policy. His complaint wasnt  
upheld as AXA said the exclusion had been correctly added  to his policy based on the 
information hed provided when he joined the scheme.
Then in July 2018 Mr C contacted AXA as his GP had referred him to a psychiatrist in 
relation to his depression. AXA told Mr C theyd require his GP to complete a medical 
information form to ensure he hadnt  suffered symptoms prior to joining the scheme. 
Mr Cs GP completed the form stating  he was suffering from anxiety  and depression, and 
hed first been seen  with anxiety in 2007. So AXA didnt approve Mr Cs psychiatric  referral  
and added an exclusion to his policy in respect of psychiatric conditions.
Mr C wasnt happy and raised a complaint. AXA didnt uphold the complaint as they said 
Mr C should have declared his anxiety when  he joined the scheme, and had he done  so, 
they would  have applied an exclusion to his policy  in respect of psychiatric conditions. As a 
goodwill gesture, they agreed to pay for Mr Cs first psychiatric consultation, but said thered 
be no further cover for psychiatric conditions. When he raised his complaint  Mr C told AXA 
there were inaccuracies in his medical records  which he intended to raise  with his GP.
On 30 July 2018 AXA notified  Mr C that although  an exclusion would remain  in place on his 
policy, in relation to his back, this would  be amended so it referred to lower  back pain. 
Mr C provided  further medical  evidence  from his GP and on 24 August 2018  AXA confirmed 
they would  cover the claim  for his back.
Mr C raised a further complaint with AXA about  the time it took for them  to approve  the 
treatment for his back, and about  cover  for his psychiatric referral being  declined. AXA didnt 
uphold the complaint as they said their decision was reasonable based on the medical 
evidence available  at the time. His back claim had been agreed when further medical  
evidence was provided. And as his company scheme had merged with that of a large 
corporate group, the underwriting had changed from full medical  underwriting  to medical 
history disregarded,  so if he needed treatment  for psychiatric conditions going forward  hed 
be covered.
Ref: DRN87759292Mr C wasnt happy and complained to our service. Our investigator considered the case and 
didnt think AXA had acted unreasonably in adding the exclusion to Mr Cs policy in respect 
of back pain, as Mr Cs medical records showed  this to be a pre-existing condition. While 
Mr C told AXA his medical records were  inaccurate AXA were  entitled to rely on them. Once  
Mr Cs GP agreed to amend his records, and AXA had this information, they reviewed the 
policy exclusion and authorised Mr Cs treatment. And our investigator thought  this was dealt 
with by AXA in a reasonable time. 
Our investigator also considered Mr Cs complaint  about  AXA adding an exclusion to his 
policy for psychiatric conditions. He said it was reasonable for AXA to add this exclusion as 
Mr C had suffered from anxiety in the past.  And AXA were entitled to make  a business 
decision that someone whod suffered from anxiety, and sought medical advice for this, was 
more likely to suffer from a psychiatric  condition in the future. And this was an assessment of 
risk, not a medical  assessment.  
So our investigator didnt think AXA had done anything  wrong  and this service wasnt able to 
tell a business what conditions they should and shouldnt provide cover  for. So he didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint.  
Mr C didnt agree so the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C contacted AXA for authorisation of a specialist referral for back  pain in May 
2018, his claim was declined in line with policy exclusion relating to back pain, as this was 
considered a pre-existing problem. Mr C told AXA his medical records werent accurate, and 
because hed told them  this, he thought  they should approve his claim.  I dont agree, as I 
think AXA were entitled to rely on Mr Cs medical records.  Its not for AXA to challenge 
records completed by Mr Cs GP. If Mr C believed his medical records contained  inaccurate  
information this is something Mr C needed  to resolve with his GP.
Mr C did contact his GP about his medical records and these were  amended  to remove  
reference to back  pain prior to him joining  the company scheme.  Once AXA received the 
amended medical  records they removed the exclusion relating to back pain and approved 
Mr Cs treatment. 
AXA received the amended medical  records on 14 August 2018.  Mr C says the amended 
records were sent to AXA before this date, but I havent seen any evidence  of this. The 
records were reviewed  and AXA removed the exclusion relating to back  pain from 
Mr Cs policy,  and approved his treatment on 21 August 2018. I dont think  this was an 
unreasonable time scale for the records to be considered, the policy  exclusion to be 
reviewed and for Mr Cs claim to be approved. So I dont think AXA did anything wrong.
In July 2018 Mr C contacted  AXA to make a claim for a specialist referral  for depression.
Mr C hadnt declared  any prior history  of anxiety or depression when he joined the company 
scheme. But when  AXA requested a medical  declaration from his GP this indicated hed 
suffered from anxiety in the past, so AXA added an exclusion  to his policy in respect of 
psychiatric conditions.  Mr C doesnt agree that AXA should consider the normal  stresses  of 
life, in his case  seeing his GP for anxiety when he was being  made  redundant, as grounds 
Ref: DRN87759293for adding  this exclusion to his policy.  He says this was in 2007 and so long ago its unfair for 
AXA to add the exclusion to his policy, simply based on this. 
And Mr C provided AXA with a letter from his GP dated 30 July 2018 saying that he 
presented with symptoms  of anxiety and depression and prior to this hed not been  treated 
for this condition since registering at the surgery in July 2012. In a letter  to AXA dated  21 
August 2018 Mr C set out the changes  which had been made to his medical records. He 
refers to an entry dated 20 March 2017 regarding anxiety,  linked  to redundancy. Having 
considered the medical records and other correspondence about  these, Im satisfied 
Mr C intended to refer to the entry  of 20 March 2007, and he didnt see his GP about anxiety 
in March 2017.
While Mr C may only have seen his GP on one occasion about  anxiety in 2007 I think AXA 
were entitled  to make a business decision that someone whod suffered from anxiety, and 
sought medical advice for this, was more  likely  to suffer from a psychiatric  condition  in the 
future. This was an assessment of risk, not a medical assessment. So I dont think  AXA did 
anything wrong  by adding the exclusion, in respect of psychiatric conditions, to Mr Ps policy  
once theyd considered his medical  records.
Despite the policy exclusion AXA agreed to cover  Mr Cs initial psychiatric consultation  in 
July 2018. Mr C didnt  attend any follow-up appointments, as he was unhappy with the 
diagnosis he was given.  And I can see he continues to see his GP regarding  medication for 
his condition, and hes had counselling funded by an employee  assistance scheme. And due 
to changes to his company scheme  Mr Cs policy now covers him for psychiatric  problems.
So I dont  think AXA did anything wrong in dealing with Mr Ps claim in respect of his back 
pain, or in respect of the exclusion  acted  to his policy  in respect of psychiatric conditions, 
and I wont be asking  them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ps complaint 
against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 30 June  2019.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8775929