K822xcomplaint
The estate  of the late Mr C has complained  about an incorrect payment made from an 
account Mr C had with National Savings  and Investments (NS&I). The estate is being 
represented in this complaint by a family member who I will refer to as Mr D.
background 
In 2012, a £2,000 payment was made  from an account Mr C had with NS&I.  This was a 
mistake on NS&Is part. The payment request was from a different account  holder but, due 
to a clerical error, NS&I  made  the payment from Mr Cs account.
Mr C, and his accountants, queried the payment the following year.  NS&I  responded with 
information about the payment, but it didnt pick up on the fact that the payment shouldnt 
have come from Mr Cs account. 
Mr C passed away in 2016. As part of the administration  of the estate, the estates solicitors 
started to investigate the £2,000 payment. They corresponded with NS&I, and the bank the 
payment was made to, on a number of occasions in 2017 and 2018.  Again, NS&I didnt spot 
its mistake. 
Mr D, the estates representative on this complaint, pursued the matter with NS&I in late 
2018. This time,  the mistake was noticed.  NS&I  refunded the £2,000 to Mr Cs estate.  It 
added interest to this and offered a further £300 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr D doesnt think NS&I  has done  enough  so he referred the complaint to us. Our 
investigator agreed with Mr D and said NS&I  should  pay an additional  £200,  bringing the 
total payment  for trouble and upset up to £500. NS&I agreed  to this but Mr D still thinks the 
figure is too low. He asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont need to revisit here the root cause of this complaint,  which is the mistaken  £2,000 
payment. NS&I has now recognised its error. It has put right the financial cost of what  
happened by refunding  the £2,000 plus interest to reflect the time Mr C, and his estate,  
havent had use of the £2,000. Ive seen  nothing to suggest NS&Is approach here was 
incorrect (and Mr D hasnt  said as much either). So the issue  I need  to decide upon is the 
amount of additional  compensation  if any  that should be paid by NS&I  to reflect the 
trouble and upset  it caused. 
Our investigator thought £500  was appropriate,  but Mr D doesnt think  this is enough. In 
short, Mr D says Mr C suffered  extreme stress  as a result of the incorrect £2,000  payment, 
not least because  he was elderly  and in ill health at the time. He says NS&Is negligence 
meant the issue dragged on for many years. And he thinks  compensation should be paid for 
the emotional strain put upon  on a number of family members who have pursued  the issue 
and for the money spent on accountants  and solicitors.
Ref: DRN85466122I recognise Mr Ds frustration with everything  that has happened and the time it has taken to 
get to this point.  But Im not in a position  to award  compensation for everything he has asked 
for.
I say this because,  as outlined above,  NS&I has already  taken into account the financial 
impact of its delays in dealing with this complaint because  it has added  lost interest to the 
£2,000 refund. My role isnt to punish or fine a business, so I dont  propose  to add anything 
more to this. That leaves the trouble and upset NS&Is actions have caused.  And whilst I 
agree something should be paid in recognition of this, I can only look at complaints relating 
to matters between  a customer and a business.  This means  I can only look at the impact 
NS&Is actions have  had on the account  holder, Mr C, prior to his death. It means I wont  be 
looking at the impact on Mr Cs family  members  other than to take into account  how their 
experiences impacted on Mr C. 
I also wont be awarding compensation for money  spent  on professional advisers  because  
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  they had to be employed to pursue this matter. As such, I dont 
think NS&I should  be responsible for the costs that resulted.  I recognise  that when NS&I  
wrote to the estates solicitors in October  2018, it said it would consider expenses  relating 
to the incorrect payment  if the estate provided  evidence to show what these expenses  were. 
However, based on the information Ive been provided with, it doesnt look like this offer was 
followed up. If Mr D and the estate do now want to follow  this up, then thats a matter  for 
them and NS&I.  But I wont be asking NS&I to reimburse accountant  and solicitor  costs.
All the above  means I will be limiting my decision to the trouble  and upset Mr C experienced. 
There isnt much in the way of contemporaneous evidence to show the impact NS&Is 
actions had on Mr C. Ive read the correspondence between Mr C, his accountants and NS&I 
when the incorrect  payment  was first raised as an issue in 2013. But these letters  are little 
more than information requests and dont give me much insight on the extent  of Mr Cs 
concern and anxiety.  The correspondence  soon dries up too, so theres  little written 
evidence to show Mr C was particularly  consumed  by the issue.  Ive also seen no evidence  
to show that the missing  money prevented him from pursuing something  he wanted to do. 
So there are a number  of reasons why I shouldnt increase the compensation payment 
proposed by our investigator. 
However, I am aware  that written  correspondence from several years ago doesnt 
necessarily give the full picture of what Mr C was going through. And the testimony of Mr D 
does fill in some of the gaps and persuasively  sets out the stress felt by Mr C. Mr Cs 
medical condition  may also have  prevented  him from pursuing the matter  after 2013.  I can 
also see £2,000  is a significant  proportion  of Mr Cs overall holding  with NS&I  so I think it 
reasonable to surmise from this that Mr C would have found it stressful to have thought this 
money had been  lost  especially given his age and health.
So the issue  is finely balanced. But with all the above in mind, and taking into account our 
usual approach for trouble  and upset payments, Im satisfied that the additional £200 
recommended by our investigator is fair and reasonable. It means  I am upholding this 
complaint because I dont think NS&I  did enough  to put things right.  But I appreciate  that 
Mr D will, nonetheless, be disappointed  in my decision.
Ref: DRN85466123my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. 
National Savings  and Investments should  pay £500 to the estate of Mr C to reflect the 
trouble and upset  he went  through. This figure includes the £300 already offered by 
National Savings  and Investments. My understanding  is that the £300 has already been paid 
meaning theres only a further £200 to pay.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr D, on behalf of 
the estate of Mr C, to accept or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8546612