K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that TSB Bank Plc wont refund a payment of £6,400  taken from 
their bank account, which they say they didnt  authorise. 
background 
Mr W was the victim  of a scam in February 2019.  He received a phone  call from a third party 
that was able to gain access to his mobile device and internet banking  where a payment of 
£6,400 was made from his joint account with Mrs W, which he says he didnt authorise.  
Mr W wants this money returned to his account.
Its not in dispute  that what happened was an act of fraud. So I have used the term 
fraudster throughout to refer to the third party involved.
Mr W says he was contacted by telephone on 27 February 2019  by the fraudster who was 
purporting to be from the telecoms  provider BT. The fraudster said that his IP address had 
been compromised  and was showing as being located in Amsterdam rather  than the UK. 
Mr W said he checked his IP address and that it did specify the location as Amsterdam as 
the fraudster had said. He also says that Openreach (a subsidiary of BT) had maintained  his 
broadband connection in the past, so he believed the call to be genuine. 
The fraudster told Mr W that every  time he went onto the internet, others would be able to 
see what he was doing. Mr W was asked  which websites he usually visits and he gave some 
examples. The fraudster told Mr W that he could see over 100 instances of somebody 
having accessed his internet connection where  they were  able to view the websites he was 
visiting. Mr W was told that he could resolve  this issue  by downloading certain apps to his 
smart phone  and running a programme.
Mr W was asked to download a CMD Terminal  Emulator app, as well as an add-on 
programme to his mobile  device.  When  he opened these apps, he said it showed him all the 
websites he had visited, along with corresponding warnings and error messages. The 
fraudster asked Mr W to enter the words  security check where the warning messages were  
displayed. Mr W then says it displayed a message  saying security check  OK, which  he 
believed was helping  to make his internet secure. 
The fraudster then asked  Mr W to check his laptop computer. While he was waiting for it to 
load, Mr W says he logged onto his internet  banking  on his mobile device to check his 
accounts were safe. He says he wasnt asked to do this by the fraudster, but says he was 
worried his accounts  could have been accessed  as a result  of his IP address  being 
compromised. But having checked his internet banking, he saw that all of the accounts were 
showing the correct  balance. 
Mr W says the fraudster  then asked him to download Team  Viewer  (a remote  access  
programme) to his laptop so they could  show him how slowly it was operating as a result of 
other people  accessing  his connection.  He was shown figures relating to his download and 
upload speed  and was asked to take over ten separate readings,  after which point he was 
told that he could  log off as everything was now secure, but that he shouldnt use his internet 
over the next 24 hours.  
Mrs W returned home shortly after Mr W had spoken with the fraudsters.  She discovered two 
text messages from TSB on her mobile phone which stated that two of their accounts held 
Ref: DRN87331862insufficient funds,  so she contacted TSB as she didnt  think  this was correct. TSB asked 
whether Mr or Mrs W had made any payments,  as £6,400 has been paid to a personal 
account. When Mr and Mrs W said they hadnt, they were advised to contact the fraud 
department as they had fallen victim to a scam.
TSB have  said that the following activity occurred on Mr and Mrs Ws accounts on 
27 February 2019:
Date Time Event Amount
27/02/2019 13:30 £1,500 transferred from Mr and Mrs Ws joint Classic 
Plus account  to joint Classic Enhance account.
13:30 Alert sent to the registered mobile phone in relation to the 
joint Classic  Plus account: TSB  A/C5360. 27 Feb. As 
youre near your limit, please make  sure you have 
enough in youre a/c to pay for upcoming  transactions.
13:32 £1,500 transferred from Mr Ws sole Classic Plus 
account to joint Classic  Enhance account.
13:32 Alert sent to the registered mobile phone in relation to 
Mr Ws sole Classic Plus account: TSB A/C5468. 27 
Feb. As youre near your limit, please  make sure you 
have enough in youre a/c to pay for upcoming  
transactions.
13:53 A one-time  passcode (OTP) is sent to the registered 
mobile phone:  Hello TSB here. Use your One-Time  
Password ****** to confirm payment of £6,400 to a/c 
ending 7663. Didnt request this? Please call us on the 
number on the back of your card or in our mobile  app. 
DO NOT SHARE  THIS OTP WITH ANYONE.
13:54 OTP confirmed and £6,400 transferred out of 
Mr and Mrs Ws joint Classic Enhance account  to a third-
party account ending  7663.£6,400
Total: £6,400
TSB asked  Mr W if he had shared  the OTP with the fraudster when the new beneficiary was 
set up for the payment  of £6,400. Mr W told TSB he had never received the text message 
containing the OTP, and that he couldnt now find this on his phone  either.  He also says that 
he did not share any of his security or login details with the fraudster, but that he had 
downloaded some apps onto his phone  as instructed by them. TSB contacted  the 
beneficiary bank  but were  unable to retrieve any of the funds. They considered  the social  
engineering scam Mr W had fallen victim  to, but refused to refund the amount  taken  from his 
joint account. In summary, TSB said:
A six-digit OTP was sent via text message to the registered telephone number for Mr W 
held on record, which had to be entered into a screen on his internet banking  to confirm 
the authenticity of the payment.
While  the caller  may have appeared genuine, Mr W has ultimately allowed the fraudster 
to access his internet  banking because he logged in while they had control  of his device. 
A short while after Mr W logged into his account,  a new beneficiary  was created and 
verified, and the software downloaded to his mobile device has allowed the fraudster to 
view the OTP sent by TSB.
Prior to making any new payments, TSBs website provides  a number of warnings to all 
customers about social  engineering  scams. They had no reason to suspect that the 
Ref: DRN87331863payment was not genuine at the time,  so they had no reason to prevent it from being  
made.
While  they appreciate Mr W may not have authorised the payment himself, he had been 
grossly negligent  by allowing someone to gain remote  access  to his computer and 
mobile phone by downloading their recommended  software,  which ultimately gave them  
access to his internet  banking and the ability to receive the OTP to confirm the payment.
Given that Sky was Mr Ws telecoms provider, there was no reasonable explanation as 
to why he should receive a call from BT, so he ought to have recognised that it wasnt  a 
genuine call.  
Unhappy with TSBs decision, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to this service. Mr W 
says he was also unhappy with the way he was treated by TSB after reporting the scam. He 
has also explained how distressing it was to him and Mrs W to be told that they wouldnt be 
getting a refund of the funds that were  taken.
Our investigator upheld  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He didnt think Mr W had authorised  the 
transactions, and also didnt  think  he had failed with intent or gross negligence to comply 
with the terms and conditions of the account, or to keep his security details safe. 
TSB disagreed with our investigator. They maintain that Mr Ws actions  had fallen below the 
standard of a reasonable person  because he allowed remote  access  to his internet banking 
to someone who was claiming to be from BT when in fact Sky was his telecoms  provider. As 
such, they consider he was grossly negligent.  TSB requested a final decision, so the matter 
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Having 
done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
relevant considerations
TSB as an FCA regulated  firm provided  a current 'deposit' account. As such the FCA's 
overarching principles for business apply including the requirement to Treat  Customers  
Fairly'. This fraud took place in February 2019, so of particular relevance to my decision 
about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017) which apply to transfers like the ones made 
from Mr and Mrs Ws account. Among other things the PSRs  2017 say:
Consent  and withdrawal of consent
67.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
Ref: DRN8733186472.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a) use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  governing  its 
issue and use; and
(b) notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue delay on 
becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of the payment 
instrument.
(3) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
75.(1) Where a payment service user
(a) denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b) claims that a payment  transaction  has not been correctly executed, it is for the payment 
service provider to prove that the payment transaction  was authenticated,  accurately 
recorded, entered in the payment service  providers accounts and not affected by a technical 
breakdown or some  other deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 72.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
76.(Subject  to regulations 74 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 75, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 67, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transaction
77.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2)  the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £35 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
Ref: DRN87331865(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 67.
 
consent
Regulation 67 says that the payer  must give consent, and it "must be given in the form, and 
in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment  service 
provider". The payment services directive  itself (which the PSRs 2017  implement)  says "In 
the absence of such consent,  a payment transaction shall be considered to be 
unauthorised." Neither the PSRs 2017 nor the FCA's guidance on PSRs 2017 provides a 
definition of "consent".
Therefore, when considering whether consent was given, Ill apply the common  definition  of 
consent, which is to give permission for something to happen. 
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with "gross  negligence"  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in the PSRs 2017 or in the Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
"In order  to assess possible negligence  or gross  negligence on the part of the payment 
service user account should be taken of all of the circumstances. The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness, for example keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction 
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties..."
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services
Regulations 2017, says:
"... we interpret  "gross negligence" to be a higher standard than the standard  of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness."
Although not specific to this case,  the FCAs interpretation is of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretive guidance, and because  it 
informs the meaning  of a concept  that had been in place for some time in the Banking  Code.
Ref: DRN87331866When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The "Ardent") [1997] said: 
"If the matter is viewed according to purely English  principles of construction,  ... "Gross" 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence... as a matter of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard [sic] of or indifference to an obvious  risk."
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. And, as I have 
described above, the use of 'gross negligence',  rather than mere 'negligence', suggests a 
lack of care that goes  significantly  beyond ordinary negligence or carelessness. 
So I have  to consider whether Mr Ws actions fell so far below the standard  of a reasonable 
person that he failed  with gross negligence to keep his personalised security  details safe or 
to comply with his account  terms and conditions.
intent
Intent is not defined in the PSRs 2017 nor in the Payment Services Directive. Ill therefore 
apply the natural meaning of intent  - that being: something you want and plan to do, a 
deliberate act.
This is also consistent with the FCAs 2013  guidance on the PSRs  2009, which gives  a 
helpful indication  of the regulators view of what it means, and refers  to: 
8.108 a customer  who deliberately failed to comply with their obligations.
8.116 a customer  who has intentionally not  complied with their obligations...the 
burden of proof lies with the payment service provider  the rejection must be 
supported by sufficient evidence to prove  that the customer is guilty of  intentional 
breach.
The guidance also gives  an indication of the regulators  view of whats meant by taking  all 
reasonable steps to keep a payment instruments personalised security  features safe at 
Regulation 57(2) PSRs  2009:
8.97 says What constitutes  reasonable steps  will depend on the circumstances, but 
payment service providers must say what steps they expect customers to take in 
their pre-contract disclosure information.
I think what the PSRs 2017  mean, is that when  considering whether a payment service user 
failed to comply with their obligations with intent, the test I need  to consider is whether they 
appreciated that by taking the actions or inactions they did, they would be failing to meet  
these obligations.
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ws account
The following  are extracts from the general  terms and conditions  applicable to 
Mr and Mrs Ws account at the time.  These terms and conditions broadly reflect the 
provisions contains  in the PSRs 2017.
You must always keep your cards, chequebooks  and security  details  safe at all times.
Ref: DRN87331867Dont let anyone know  your security details.  You can prevent this by:
-Not choosing obvious passwords or codes  like your name  or date of birth.
-Not writing down your security details  in a way that can be understood by someone  
else.
-Not letting anyone  hear or see your security  details.  They  could overhear a call you 
have with us or see you entering your PIN at a cash machine.
Dont let anyone either use your account or have access to information about your account, 
unless youve allowed  them to do so in a way agreed with us.
If you dont  keep your account  safe,  you may be responsible for money that is taken out of 
your account  and payments that are made  as a result.
The terms also say:
When we wont refund you:
-Youve been  acting  fraudulently
-You havent kept your card or security details safe  either intentionally,  or by being 
very careless, when  your account  is in credit
-Youve deliberately not told us that youve lost your card or security details, or youve  
been very careless. This applies  as long as your account is in credit.
I think, therefore, there are two key questions relevant to my considerations:
1.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Mr W? and;
2.If they werent, did Mr W fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with his 
obligations under  Regulation  72 of the PSRs  2017  in particular, did he fail to 
comply with the terms and conditions of his account or to keep his personalised 
security details safe? 
were the disputed transactions  authorised by Mr W?
In order for a payment to be regarded as authorised,  its necessary for Mr W to have  given 
his consent to the execution of the relevant  payment transactions.  In their submissions  to us, 
TSB accept its unlikely Mr W authorised  the payment from his joint account,  and that it was 
likely the fraudster that had intercepted the OTP as a result  of Mr W downloading  the apps 
on to his phone, which subsequently  allowed them to authenticate the payment on his 
internet banking. 
So, as its not in dispute that the payment wasnt authorised by Mr W, I see no reason to 
explore this point  any further. And based  on the evidence Ive seen,  I do not think Mr W 
consented to this payment in any event. 
did Mr W act with intent   particularly taking  into account  the terms and conditions  of 
his relationship with TSB and the obligations  set out in the PSRs 2017?
I dont think TSB have suggested that Mr W failed to comply  with his obligation  under 
regulation 72 with intent, but I will address this point  briefly  in any event.
Ref: DRN87331868The question I need to consider is whether Mr W appreciated that his actions or inactions in 
the circumstances meant  that he wasnt complying with the terms and conditions of his 
account and/or he appreciated that he wasnt taking all reasonable steps  to keep his 
personalised security  features safe. But in the circumstances, I dont think Mr W failed to 
comply with his obligations with intent  under the PSRs 2017.
Mr W said he downloaded some software  onto his mobile device,  but that he didnt 
appreciate the fraudster  could see him logging  on with his secure  information while he 
accessed his online banking. He says the fraudster hadnt asked him to do this, and neither 
did they ask him to disclose any of his account  information. But Mr W says he was worried 
his internet had been hacked as a result of what the fraudster had shown him. So while  he 
was waiting for his laptop to load up, he logged into his internet banking on his phone  to 
check on his account balances.
I accept that Mr W had downloaded certain apps to his phone  at the fraudsters instruction. 
But he was told that this was to enable  him to carry  out security  checks  on the websites  hed 
visited, and in order to run a programme to make his internet secure. So I dont think its 
likely Mr W knew the fraudster had the level of access to his phone  that they did. But even if 
he did know they had some form of access,  I dont think this means he knew  that the 
fraudster would be able to see what he was doing,  or would be able to make use of his 
online payment  services. So I dont think he recognised there  was any risk in logging  on to 
his internet banking  when  he did.
Taking into account everything  Mr W was told as to why he needed to download  the apps to 
his phone, I dont think he realised or appreciated he was not complying  with his account 
terms and conditions, or that he was failing in his obligations  to take reasonable steps  to 
keep his personal security  information safe. Indeed, I consider  it more likely than not that the 
actions Mr W thought  he was taking were intended  to keep his internet connection (and 
internet banking)  secure, so I dont  think  he wouldve  appreciated that his actions meant he 
was in fact breaching his account  terms or failing to prevent his account from being  
accessed by an unauthorised party. It therefore follows  that Mr W cant  have failed to comply  
with his obligations under  regulation  72 with intent if he did not appreciate  the true nature of 
what he was doing. 
did Mr W act with gross  negligence  particularly  taking into account the terms and 
conditions of his relationship with TSB and the obligations  set out in the PSRs  2017?
Ive gone on to consider whether the actions Mr W took fell so far below the standard of a 
reasonable person that he failed  with gross negligence to take all reasonable steps to keep 
his security information safe or to comply  with the terms  and conditions of his account.
As I set out earlier, negligence  is often referred  to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. 
And the use of gross  negligence  rather than mere negligence  suggests  a lack of care that 
goes significantly beyond  ordinary  negligence.  So Ive thought about Mr Ws actions and 
considered what  a reasonable person would do in his circumstances. 
Gross negligence  is not an abstract concept.  Its important to take into account all the 
circumstances when  considering whether an individuals  action amount to gross negligence. 
Scams such as the one experienced by Mr W are very sophisticated, and its likely the 
fraudster used a range of social engineering techniques to trick, deceive and manipulate him 
Ref: DRN87331869into following their instructions and inadvertently allowing access to his internet banking and 
confidential security  information.  
TSB submit that Mr W ought  to have known that the person  he was speaking  to was not 
genuine because  BT is not his telecoms provider. As such, they say he has been grossly  
negligent by following their instructions and failing to terminate the call. Mr W has explained  
that his broadband connection is maintained by Openreach, who are a subsidiary of BT. He 
says they have visited his property before when he had problems with his internet signal, 
and on another  occasion  when his internet connection was lost all together. So although Sky 
may be his telecoms  provider, he didnt think it was necessarily unusual that BT (or any of 
their subsidiaries) might be contacting  him to discuss potential issues with his internet 
connection again, given his previous dealings as a customer of Openreach. 
Ive thought carefully about this. And in the circumstances, although BT may not have been 
his direct provider, I consider its plausible that they could be contacting him about his 
broadband connection, particularly as he considered  himself  to be a customer  of theirs given 
his past dealings with Openreach. So I dont think this is enough in itself to suggest Mr W 
has been grossly negligent.
As Ive set out previously,  the fraudster then told Mr W that his internet connection had been 
compromised and that his IP address was showing as being related to somewhere in 
Amsterdam rather than the UK. Mr W says he did not know  a lot about  IP addresses,  but 
was concerned by what he heard and followed the fraudsters instructions on how to check 
this on his mobile device.  He doesnt  remember where exactly  he was told to check it, but he 
thinks it was within the settings options  of his device, which  did in fact display the word  
Amsterdam as well as the name  of an unknown individual the fraudster said had been 
accessing his connection. 
Given that this matched  what the caller had initially told him, Mr W says he believed the 
fraudster was genuinely calling from Openreach. It isnt clear what  he was told to access  on 
his phone or why it displayed  his IP address as showing in Amsterdam. But seeing  as Mr W 
was able to verify what the fraudster was telling  him on his own mobile device  (and taking 
into account his previous  dealings with Openreach as outlined above) I dont think  he had 
any reason to believe the phone call he received was not genuine. 
The fraudster then convinced Mr W he had to take action as his IP address and internet 
connection had been compromised, such that other people could see what he was doing 
and the websites he was visiting. But he was told that he could remedy this by downloading  
some apps onto his phone that could run security  checks and help secure his internet. After 
typing in the websites he usually visits, Mr W was subsequently shown some further 
alarming information  in the form of warning messages, which  he says suggested that that 
other people  had gone on to certain websites  at the same time as him through  his 
connection. This further concerned Mr W because he uses  his mobile device and internet 
connection to manage his accounts online through his internet banking with TSB.
As Ive outlined earlier, although  Mr W followed the fraudsters instructions and downloaded 
the apps to his phone that likely allowed them  to take control of his device, I dont think he 
knew this software would allow the fraudster  to do this. But given that Mr W thought he was 
dealing with a business he knew, trusted and had dealt with before  and given  he was 
made to feel worried about  potential illegal and fraudulent activity taking place via his 
internet connection   I think  a lot of people  would have believed what the fraudster was 
Ref: DRN873318610saying. So I think its most  likely  that Mr W thought  the apps  he was downloading  were to 
help carry out checks to counteract any potential fraud. 
It was in this context that Mr W took the steps  that he did, such  as logging on to his internet  
banking to check it was secure while the fraudster could seemingly access his device and 
see what he was doing. And I think a lot of people in a similar  position  wouldve behaved in a 
similar way in those circumstances. So it follows that I dont think the actions Mr W took here 
fell so far below the standard of a reasonable person, such  that he failed  with gross 
negligence to keep  his personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and 
conditions of his account. 
Once Mr W had logged  onto his internet banking on his mobile device, the fraudster asked 
him to perform a series of tasks on his laptop,  where they said they were monitoring  his 
internet speed  and got him to record different readings. They also told him that he should  not 
use his laptop  or mobile phone for 24 hours.  I think its likely  they asked him to do this so as 
to keep him distracted while they accessed his internet banking  that he had recently logged 
on to.
Mr W also says he did not receive  any text messages to his phone  that contained the OTP to 
confirm payment to the new beneficiary  set up on his account by the fraudster. TSB accept 
that its likely  the fraudster was able to intercept the OTP as a result of the access they had 
to Mr Ws device. And given that its accepted that Mr W likely  didnt  share any of this 
security information with the fraudsters, I dont need  to consider whether any such  actions 
would constitute  gross negligence in the circumstances. 
When thinking about what a reasonable TSB customer  would  do in Mr Ws circumstances, I 
think its relevant that once someone  believed theyre dealing with someone  trustworthy,  and 
when they believe  theyre acting to secure  their internet connection and accounts,  it can take 
something quite significant  to break  that spell. On balance I dont think  anything did happen 
to break  the spell Mr W was under at the time.  I appreciate that balance alerts were  sent to 
Mrs Ws phone, but Mr W didnt  receive  any of these  messages. And there was nothing else 
that wouldve  reasonably alerted him to the fraudulent  activity  that was unfolding. 
When under  this sort of pressure, I also cant ignore that Mr W wasnt necessarily in a 
position to make rational and informed decisions. Mr W has not mentioned  that he is 
experienced in IT or security related  matters either  (in fact, he said he did not know  a lot 
about IP addresses  at the time). So when  someone  in this position is made to worry  that 
theyre being hacked (such that their internet banking security and money could also be 
under threat)  I think its likely theyd be much  more inclined to follow the instructions of those 
that they believe are more  knowledgeable on the subject matter. 
Im satisfied that gross negligence  should mean a very significant  degree  of carelessness, 
involving a serious  disregard or indifference to an obvious risk. As this is a high bar, it isnt 
enough to say Mr W was grossly negligent  simply  because  he downloaded certain apps to 
his mobile device and later logged on to his internet banking to check his account balances. 
And having taken  all of the relevant considerations into account, Im not persuaded that his 
actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would  do in the circumstances to amount  
to gross negligence.  I think  in similar circumstances, a reasonable person wouldve acted in 
the same  way that Mr W did here. 
I acknowledge Mr W failed to keep his security details safe and failed  to prevent a third-party 
from accessing his online accounts. But under the PSRs 2017, this in itself only means  he 
Ref: DRN873318611can be held liable for up to £35 of the losses incurred in respect  of the unauthorised  
payments. However,  this would need  to be set out in the terms and conditions  of Mr Ws 
accounts, and as it isnt, I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to rely on this 
here.
In summary,  I dont find that Mr W failed to comply with his obligations with intent or was 
grossly negligent.  And so I conclude that it would  be fair for TSB to provide a full refund  to 
Mr and Mrs Ws account.
other considerations
Ive considered Mr Ws submissions regarding TSBs handling  of the matter once the 
fraudulent activity had been identified. He says they were left with very little money  in both 
his and Mrs Ws accounts, which is evident  from the bank statements provided and the 
balance alert text messages sent to Mrs Ws phone.
Mr W also says he had to contact TSB several  times  after being  told they would get back to 
him with an update of whether any funds had been  retrieved  from the receiving bank. But I 
can see that he had to chase for updates on a number of occasions  when he didnt hear 
anything. 
Having just lost a significant  amount of money,  this was likely a very worrying  time for 
Mr and Mrs W. And it seems that they were not kept sufficiently updated, such that Mr W felt 
the need to have to keep on contacting TSB to find out what was happening  and whether 
they were going  to get their money  back, which I think wouldve only added to the stress and 
worry they were experiencing at the time.  The investigator recommended  an award of £150.  
But having  considered TSBs actions, including the fact that they didnt refund 
Mr and Mrs Ws money when they should  have, I consider it would be fair and reasonable for 
TSB to pay a total of £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
putting things right
My findings  mean that Mr and Mrs W have  been  unfairly deprived of these funds  since  
27 February 2019. And, as Ive outlined above,  they were left with little money  in their 
account following  the scam, so I think it would be fair for TSB to also apply 8% simple 
interest per year on this amount from the date it left their account to the date it is refunded.
As Ive said above,  TSB should also pay Mr and Mrs W £250 compensation for the trouble 
and upset theyve  experienced.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and direct TSB Bank  Plc 
to:
Refund £6,400 to Mr and Mrs W in full;
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount, from the date of the withdrawal  of 
the funds to the date of settlement. If TSB deducts tax from the interest element of 
this award, they should also provide Mr and Mrs W with the appropriate  tax deduction  
certificate;
Refund any fees or charges Mr and Mrs W may have  incurred on their accounts  that 
directly resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed payments; and
Ref: DRN873318612Pay Mr and Mrs W a total of £250 compensation in recognition of the trouble and 
upset caused  by TSBs  handling  of the matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8733186