K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Mulsanne  Insurance Company Limited reduced her No Claims 
Discount (NCD) for her motor insurance  policy following an accident. She wants  it to hold her 
not at fault and to retain her NCD. 
background
Miss R was involved in an accident  with another  driver.  She said Mulsanne told her it had 
found her not at fault. But Mulsanne later wrote to Miss R to tell her that liability  for the 
accident was in dispute and it was trying to settle this as 50/50 with the other drivers insurer. 
Miss R was unhappy with this change and that her NCD would be affected. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Mulsanne was entitled  to settle the claim as it sought fit after reasonably  investigating and 
considering the evidence.  He thought  Miss Rs broker had told her the claim was settled 
non-fault. He couldnt see evidence that Mulsanne had told the broker  this. He didnt think  
Mulsanne was responsible for the brokers actions.
Miss R replied that she hadnt accepted  the 50/50 outcome. She said she was told she 
wasnt at fault and her NCD would be unaffected and she thought  Mulsanne  was responsible 
for this. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of the accident were  that Miss Rs car hit another  car in the rear. From 
what I can see, Miss R said the other car rolled  back into hers. Miss R told us that Mulsanne  
first told her that she wasnt at fault for the accident  and her three years NCD was 
unaffected. But the other drivers insurer later disputed liability saying that Miss R had hit the 
stationary car. And so Mulsanne said it tried to settle  the claim as 50/50 split liability  due to 
the lack of independent witnesses. 
It isnt our role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident.  This is the role of the 
courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this nature is simply to investigate how the insurer 
made the decision to settle the claim. Did it act fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy?
Mulsanne is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Miss R to take over,  
defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Miss R has to follow  its advice in connection  with the 
settlement of her claim, whether  she agrees  with the outcome or not. This is a common term 
in motor insurance policies and I dont find it unusual. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before deciding liability. 
Ref: DRN86337052From what I can see, there were no independent witnesses to the accident or CCTV footage 
available. So it was one drivers account against the others. Its not unusual for an insurer to 
change its decision on liability after it receives further evidence. I havent see that Mulsanne told 
Miss R that she wasnt at fault. But I have seen that it contacted Miss R when it had received the 
other drivers version of events. Mulsanne then told Miss R that the best outcome if the matter 
went to court would be a 50/50 settlement. So it made this offer to the other drivers insurer. 
I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as Mulsanne had investigated the claim 
as far as it could and considered the evidence. I think it was then entitled to make its decision by 
the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say that Mulsanne did anything wrong in this. 
Miss R has shown us the email she received  from the broker  that told her that her claim had 
been resolved  and she was found  not at fault. I note that the email doesnt specify the claim 
details, or the name of the insurer or claims handler.  Mulsanne said it had no records  of a 
contact from the broker  about  the claim at that time.  So Ive seen no evidence that Mulsanne 
told the broker that Miss R wasnt at fault. 
Our investigator has already explained to Miss R that if she feels that fault lies with her 
broker for providing her with inaccurate information, then she should raise her complaint  with 
it directly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8633705