K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner  
Finance, re-possessed two cars she had under conditional sales  agreements without fair 
notice being given. She was then led to believe there was nothing further to pay. She found 
this wasnt the case  when the new debt owner asked her to repay a substantial sum.
background
In April 2016 Miss A bought a car under a conditional sales agreement with Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF). The agreement was for five years  and she committed to pay just under £230  
a month. Later that year Miss A was looking to get a settlement figure.  She ended  up getting 
revised figures from BPF over the next few months.   
Miss A believed the car had a fault and wasnt in a satisfactory condition.  BPF asked the 
dealer to look into the issue  to see what could be done. Its unclear what  then happened.  
Miss A has said nothing was done to help her. As she couldnt afford to get the work  done to 
the car, but needed transport to get to work, Miss A took out a further conditional  sale 
agreement in February 2017 for another car.
This was for a newer and more expensive car. Miss As new agreement  was also for five 
years and cost her a further £285  a month.
Miss A started to struggle  financially. She had a number of serious personal issues  to 
manage as well as family bereavement. She managed  to get a friend to agree to pay both of 
her monthly credit agreements  in October 2017. This was done by credit  card but within  a 
short period  of time, this friend  claimed these transactions werent authorised. BPF were 
obliged to repay these under the card schemes chargeback rules.  
BPF were concerned fraud  had taken place. They took steps  to take immediate  
repossession of both cars. As they believed Miss A may be involved in the fraud, BPF say 
its unlikely theyd have  explained anything to her even though bailiffs turned up to collect the 
cars without  any warning.
BPF repossessed the cars and sold these on for £3,800 and £9,100. This meant there  
remained outstanding  interest and capital  to be repaid from the original credit  agreements.
BPF then sold both debts  to a third party. At the time of doing  this  2 January 2018  they 
marked Miss As credit record  to show  both debts as settled. Statements that BPF then sent 
to Miss A  once theyd re-purchased the debt  showed them as having  written off two 
debts of £6,238.81 and £5360.31 on 31 March 2018.
Miss A was then contacted by a third party whod bought the debt from BPF (who Ill refer to 
as H). She was being asked to pay £12,000 altogether and felt this was unfair.  She 
complained to BPF. They felt theyd done nothing wrong. Miss A brought her complaint to 
the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator felt that BPF had misled Miss A by clearly  implying  there was no debt. He 
was also concerned that there seemed to have been  no clarity about the basis  for re-
possessing the cars.  Particularly as he didnt believe there was any evidence  to suggest 
Miss A had been  involved in any fraud.  He asked BPF to write off the debt.
Ref: DRN83074742BPF didnt  believe this was a fair outcome. A further  investigator reviewed  the case again 
before the case was allocated to an ombudsman. She didnt believe BPF had done anything  
wrong. She thought the evidence showed  that Miss A was in financial difficulties and in all 
likelihood may have had to give up the cars as she couldnt continue to afford  them.
Miss A asked an ombudsman to consider  her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 19 May 2021.  I believed  the evidence  showed the 
second finance agreement had been unaffordable so asked BPF to write off any debt related 
to that agreement.
Miss A responded to confirm she still believed the debt for both cars should be written  off but 
provided no further evidence. BPF had no further comments.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision.. Ill 
now explain  why. I received no further  evidence  so what  follows  is the same as the contents  
of my provisional decision.
There are a number of different strands to this complaint. These include the basis  BPF had 
to repossess Miss As vehicles and what  they shared with her in terms of appropriate notice. 
And what would  be appropriate  redress for them misleading her about  what was left to 
repay. 
As part of my investigation  I noted that Miss A was in financial difficulties so I believed it was 
appropriate to consider  affordability aspects. BPF granted Miss A two conditional sales  
agreements within 10 months costing her more  than £500 a month. This was a substantial 
financial commitment so Ive also considered this aspect.
Im also aware there is a concern about  the condition  of Miss As first car. BPF has argued 
this aspect is out of jurisdiction as Miss A brought any complaint too late for us to consider. 
BPFs final response on this aspect  is dated 28 April 2017. Miss A didnt contact our service 
until February 2019.
Its certainly true that this is outside  of the six months Miss A had to bring  any complaint to 
our service.  However I am able to consider whether any exceptional circumstances apply 
here. Miss A has provided us with strong  testimony  from different parties  about  her 
emotional and physical wellbeing during this period. This clearly  indicates that she had 
distressing circumstances to get through. Id be inclined  to think these would amount to 
exceptional circumstances.
However there is now limited evidence  about the condition of the car and what may have 
been wrong with it. And whilst I would have normally taken these into account, I believe the 
main aspect is the unaffordability aspects and these dictate the resolution I believe is fair 
and reasonable.
Ref: DRN83074743In reviewing the affordability aspects, Ive considered  amongst other things  the rules  and 
guidance for lenders set out in the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within  the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook.
I think there are two overarching questions  I need to consider in order to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did BPF complete reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Miss A would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Miss A could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did BPF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
If I think Miss A has been disadvantaged in any way by BPFs actions, Ill go onto consider 
what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did BPF complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss A would be 
able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable  way?
Before granting credit,  BPF were  required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Miss As ability to sustainably  repay  the debt. This is often referred to as an 
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be 
concerned with whether Miss A could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering  her 
specific circumstances), rather  than how statistically likely she was to repay.
The latter is the risk posed to BPF as the lender, or their credit risk but this is not 
necessarily the same  as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors 
such as, but not limited  to:
The amount  of credit;
The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered 
proportionate as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and 
proportionate check ought to be.
Miss A took out two conditional sales agreements with BPF. The total amount repayable for 
the first agreement,  take out in April 2016,  was nearly £15,500  repayable over five years.  
The APR was 17.4%  and Miss A was paying nearly  £230 a month. The total amount 
repayable for the second agreement, taken out in February 2017, was over £18,200, 
repayable over five years. The APR was 16.9%. Miss A was paying £285 a month.
Ref: DRN83074744These were  therefore relatively long-term  and costly commitments and my starting point is 
that any reasonable and proportionate  assessment of affordability ought to have  been  quite 
thorough.
BPF has provided us with details of the underwriting checks carried out prior to lending  both 
times to Miss A. These helped them to understand what Miss As current credit commitments 
were and to see how she was managing them. This showed Miss As bank accounts, as well 
as a mobile phone  contract.  There appears  to have been little other financial commitments.
BPF said that these  checks gave  them  a reasonable level of confidence that the stated 
salary of £27,000 in 2016 and £35,000 in 2017  were accurate. I suspect this affordability 
model is more akin to assessing the credit risk Miss A posed rather  than considering  
Miss As specific circumstances as required by CONC.
I cant see that BPF undertook any further income  and expenditure checks nor is it clear that 
her bank statements  were reviewed. BPF will have been aware that Miss A had at least  an 
overdraft facility on one account of £1,500.
Ive not seen a copy  of Miss As credit record for this time so cant verify the information BPF 
saw was what her credit  record stated. But I see no immediate reason to think  this wouldnt 
be the case.
As theres  no evidence  any income and expenditure assessment were undertaken, Ive seen 
nothing to show what BPF estimated Miss As disposable income to be. They  assessed her 
as able to meet the repayments of £230 and £285 per month under the credit agreements  
based I believe on her annual salary. 
Miss A has confirmed that before she went into full-time education in September 2017,  she 
was employed in two jobs and was earning  a total of £560 a week. This by and large seems 
to match  the information given to the two credit  brokers when buying the cars.
Overall, I dont  think BPF completed reasonable and proportionate checks  when thinking 
about the amount of information  and supporting evidence  they gathered to assess Miss As 
creditworthiness. Particularly as she was taking out a second  agreement,  Id have expected  
them to have carried out further checks to assess Miss As affordability.
Did BPF make a fair lending decision?
So having  looked at further information   which BPF didnt  gather   I have significant 
concerns about  their decision  the lending was affordable and sustainable.
Its clear that within six months  of taking out the second credit  agreement,  Miss A stopped 
working and became a full-time student.  From what I know  of her history, its clear that this 
would have been known in February 2017.  What  Id have expected BPF to be considering  is 
what ability Miss A had to meet any financial shocks or life changes. I can see no evidence 
they did this.
Miss As bank statements for later in 2017 show Miss A was struggling financially. In fact to 
help her, she was given  £1,500 as a one-off educational grant. Miss As statements show  
Miss A was regularly overdrawn. These  suggest  she wasnt  in a financially robust position.
Ref: DRN83074745Ive also seen a reference in the contact notes that Miss A stated shed be able to repay  
some of her debt using  her student  loan so its clear BPF were aware that Miss A was no 
longer in employment.
But before this and according to BPFs account statement for the first car, Miss A missed a 
payment for the first car in February 2017   prior to taking out the conditional  sale 
agreement. 
How BPF came to the conclusion that Miss As financial situation indicated  a sustainable and 
affordable arrangement is baffling.  As far as I can tell no alarm bells seemed to ring to 
enable questions to be asked of Miss A  like why she needed to have two cars and the 
related two credit agreements.
Overall, I dont  think BPF took appropriate  consideration of the information  they had 
gathered  or could have gathered  about Miss As financial circumstances. Clearly Miss A 
was struggling financially  and had to resort  to borrowing from friends.
I appreciate it was unlikely that BPF would  have known of the difficult personal 
circumstances Miss A was also going through at this time.
For completeness its clear Miss A was in financial difficulties  as she changed collection 
dates for repayment and was in arrears within 3-4 months of taking out the second credit 
agreement.
Given all of the above, I dont think BPF made  a fair lending decision and they shouldnt 
have approved the second conditional  sale agreement.
BPF needed to ensure Miss A could afford to sustainably repay  the borrowing without 
causing her financial  difficulty or the need  to borrow further. I think they didnt collect 
sufficient information  during  the application process  to realise Miss A was not in a position  to 
sustainably repay  this agreement. And if they had carried out those additional  checks, they 
wouldnt have granted the borrowing.
Did BPF act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive looked, as stated already, about whether  the first car was of a suitable quality. Miss A 
has provided us with further information  including why she didnt proceed with any complaint 
about the quality of the car. I believe she felt the responsibility was upon  her to sort out the 
problems. I cant get around thinking  that it was problems  with the first car that caused  
Miss A to need to get a second  vehicle.  However Miss A no longer  has any details  of what 
she spent on the first vehicle.
BPF has been unable  to show what  they relied upon  within Miss As credit agreements  to 
repossess her vehicles  without warning.  I appreciate their concerns but Ive seen nothing  
which would indicate  Miss A was involved in any fraud. She believed  a friend was helping  
her out with payment whilst she dealt with a family bereavement. He then seems to have 
changed his mind and alleged payments were  taken without his authority. I can see why 
BPF felt this was a concern  but Id have  expected  further investigation into what had 
happened way before getting bailiffs to repossess the cars.
I appreciate Miss A feels she was misled into thinking she had no further debt with BPF. 
Unfortunately the wording  at the bottom of her BPF financial statements could have been 
Ref: DRN83074746read to suggest  she had no debt. In fact what it actually meant was that Miss A didnt owe 
money to BPF as theyd sold on the debt to a third party. She continues  to owe the third 
party (who  currently is H) a considerable amount.
Putting things right
As I think  BPF shouldnt  have granted a second credit  agreement to Miss A, I think it would 
be fair and reasonable for it to now refund everything she has paid towards the agreement, 
minus a deduction for any fair use of the car she had during that time.
There isnt an exact formula  for working  out what fair usage might  be. But in deciding  whats  
fair and reasonable Ive thought about  the amount of interest and charges applied  to the 
agreement, the amount of mileage  Miss A covered whilst in possession  of the car and what 
reasonable costs  she would  likely have incurred  instead if shed never entered  into this 
agreement. 
Ive seen that there were 46,770 miles on the clock  when the car was re-possessed.  None of 
the evidence BPF has provided seems to confirm  what the mileage was when Miss A first 
took possession  of the car. So Im prepared  to accept that Miss A had average use of the car 
whilst in her possession. Neither party provided any further evidence to suggest anything to 
the contrary.
I can see Miss A made a few payments for the period the car was in her possession from 
February 2017 and it being re-possessed in December that year.
Having taken this all into account, I think its fair and reasonable  BPF write off anything  due 
over and above what Miss A paid for the second vehicle. This may entail buying the debt 
back from H but I leave  it up to them to ensure H stops requesting  any payments from 
Miss A related to the second vehicle.
As regards  the first vehicle, I believe this was affordable based on the information  Ive seen 
to date. This means  Miss A needs  to pay whats  owed after BPF repossessed the vehicle in 
December 2017.  However I dont believe theres  any basis  for BPF adding on repossession  
fees of £84 as Ive seen no basis for BPF being  able to repossess the vehicle without 
warning to Miss A.
BPF will need to liaise  with H to ensure theyre  aware what Miss A must continue to pay for 
that car.
I have reviewed the impact of this issue on Miss A overall. As stated earlier,  Miss A had 
been through a very stressful and emotionally debilitating period. I can see why she 
immediately landed on the belief that she had nothing to pay for the two cars so can only 
imagine the additional stress this provided. Having taken all this into account, I believe its 
fair BPF provide compensation for the impact  on her. Ive assessed this as significant 
because of the impact  on Miss A. I will be asking BPF to give Miss A £750 for the trouble 
caused.
Lastly, as Miss A should  never have been allowed  to enter  into the second finance 
agreement it isnt fair for BPF to record any adverse  information about this agreement on 
Miss As credit file. The existence of the second car agreement obviously  had a knock-on 
effect on Miss A so I believe adverse information on the first car agreement  from February  
2017 onwards  also shouldnt  be recorded.
Ref: DRN83074747I know H is asking Miss A to repay the debt and theyll  continue  to do so for the first car 
agreement. However  they are obliged to treat her sympathetically and ensure shes  only 
asked to repay what she can afford.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Clydesdale Financial Services 
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance, to:
Write  off any debt relating to the second car agreement  Miss A took out in 
February 2017;
Ensure the current  debt owner  is made  aware of this;
Update Miss As credit record so no adverse information is recorded  for either credit  
agreement from February 2017  onwards; and
Pay Miss A £750 for the trouble  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307474