K821x#15complaint
Mrs H says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M & S Bank)  mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business as M & S in my 
decision. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs H took out in 2006. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. M & S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Hs complaint  because:
It seems  that Mrs H wasnt eligible for the policy because shes told us that she was 
working for less than 16 hours per week at the time of sale.  This means  the policy 
wasnt of any use to her as she wouldnt be able to claim on the main parts  of the 
cover.
M & S have raised two main points:
-That their adviser would  have followed a script  that briefly outlined the eligibility 
criteria for the PPI; and 
-Mrs H was then sent a credit agreement to sign which M & S say directed  Mrs H 
towards the eligibility criteria.
Ive carefully considered  these points but I still think I should uphold the complaint. 
I say this because  I dont know what,  if anything was discussed during the telephone 
call about the PPI or its eligibility criteria. The one piece of evidence  that isnt in 
dispute is the credit agreement  Mrs H signed it so its fair to say she received it and 
the credit  went live - so its reasonable to assume that M & S received the completed 
form.
In my opinion, the eligibility information,  arguably  one of the most  important pieces  of 
information regarding  the PPI policy, isnt sufficiently clear or prominent. 
I acknowledge that the form does briefly  refer to Clause 5 of the agreement,  but in 
my opinion it doesnt go far enough to draw  Mrs Hs attention to the eligibility criteria.
Ive got no reason to doubt  that Mrs H wasnt working less than 16 hours  per week  so 
I cant fairly say that she would have gone  ahead and taken out a policy  that she 
wasnt covered on if shed been  made aware  of the employment eligibility criteria.
Ref: DRN83086352So, I think Mrs H has lost out because  of what M & S did wrong. 
Ive taken into account M & Ss comments, but I still think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
M & S should put Mrs H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.M & S should find out how much Mrs H would owe on her credit  card if the policy  hadnt  
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
M & S should then refund  the difference between what Mrs H owes  and what  she would  
have owed.
If Mrs H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M & S can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when M & S works  out what Mrs H would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs H paid more than enough to clear her balance, M & S should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mrs H paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs H wouldve owed M & S something on her credit card. The interest rate should  
be 8% a year.
C.M & S should tell Mrs H what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires M & S to take off tax from this interest. M & S must give 
Mrs H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (trading as M & S Bank) should put things right by 
doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8308635