K821x#15Mr P complained because  Metro  Bank  Plc failed to close one of his accounts.  Instead, the
bank defaulted  the account,  which had an adverse effect on his credit  file.
background
  
Mr P had a foreign  currency  account with Metro  Bank. On 16 January 2015,  Mr P asked
Metro Bank  to transfer the full balance  of his foreign currency account to his other
Metro Bank  account  and close  his account.  Metro  Bank transferred the full balance to Mr Ps
sterling account.
But it later turned out that Metro Bank failed to close the foreign currency account down,
when it transferred the full balance. And as a result, its systems  continued  to debit account
fees.
Metro Banks usual Collections team that pursues outstanding amounts and debts  wasnt
involved, and no arrears letters were ever sent. But Metro Bank recorded eight arrears
markers and, on 30 November 2015,  a default on Mr Ps credit  file. Theres  a dispute about
whether or not Metro Bank sent Mr P a default letter.  Mr P said he never  received one, and
Metro Bank  said it sent one on 5 November 2015.
In early April 2018, Mr P wanted to apply for a credit card before going on holiday  abroad.
He was refused,  and was told it was because of a default which Metro Bank had put on his
credit file. Mr P complained.
In its first reply, Metro  Bank accepted it had fallen short in the service it had given Mr P. It
said it had tried to find out whether it had been  an IT problem or a cashier error, but hadnt
been able to establish why the account hadnt  been  closed.  Metro Bank said it had now 
refunded the account fees it had charged  since January 2015, and had closed the account. 
It didnt mention the arrears markers or default  on Mr Ps credit file.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied and went into a branch to see a manager. Metro Bank looked at his
complaint again,  and arranged to remove the default  in May 2018. Mr P pointed  out that hed
paid £15 for a credit  file report. Metro  Bank  then offered to refund this, and offered  Mr P
£100 as a gesture of goodwill and a thank  you for your patience over the past few weeks.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied. He pointed out to Metro Bank that his credit  score had been further
reduced because  the firms hed applied to for a credit  card had rejected him. Metro Banks
default had been on his credit file for nearly three years, and hed had no letter, or phone
call, about what  had been going  on. Hed had to obtain his credit file before  Metro  Bank
would believe him  and he said hed then had to show the assistant branch manager how to
read a credit  file. It had taken seven to eight  weeks to resolve  so far, and he hadnt been
able to get a credit card for his holiday. And hed applied for mortgages in the last couple of
years, for which hed also been declined. Mr P asked for £350 compensation.
Mr P went  back to the branch in December 2018,  asking to see the manager. He knew
which employee had dealt with the transfer  but not the closure,  and he was unhappy that
Metro Bank  said it no longer had a copy of the authority hed signed to close  the account in
2015. But Metro  Bank  wouldnt pay Mr P more than the £100 compensation plus £15 credit
file costs, which it had already  offered.  So Mr P complained to this service.
The investigator upheld  Mr Ps complaint. He pointed out that Mr P had consistently said that
hed signed a closure form, and that hed asked three times  to check  the account would be
Ref: DRN82840082closed. The investigator accepted Metro  Banks  word that it had sent Mr P monthly
statements and a default notice. The investigator also listened to the phone  recordings,
which showed that Metro Bank didnt initially accept it was their fault.  It told Mr P it hadnt put
any markers on his credit  file  so hed had to obtain  a copy  of his credit file to prove it. The
investigator thought  Metro  Bank  should pay Mr P a further £100, making £200 compensation
plus the £15 credit file fee.
Mr P wasnt  satisfied with the amount of compensation. He said the marker  had been  on his
credit file for nearly three years, because Metro Bank had messed up closing his account,
and had lost his signed closure form. Hed phoned, emailed, and been into the branch when
his application  for a credit file had been  declined  and Metro  Bank  had said it wasnt  their
fault. Hed also had to show the assistant  branch manager  how to read a credit  report  and
had had to go into the branch again. But the branch had said that if Mr P was taking his case
to this service, it wouldnt speak to him further.  Mr P said hed previously had a perfect  credit
score and Metro Banks default was the only blip on it.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case. Before doing so, I considered  all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  This includes listening to call recordings  provided by Metro  Bank.
In the provisional  decision, I said that I could  understand  why Mr P was shocked  when  he 
found out about the default, and why he was so frustrated when he didnt get a satisfactory 
response from Metro Bank.
It was clear that Metro  Bank should have  closed Mr Ps foreign current  account in January 
2015 when he transferred  the whole balance to his sterling account  leaving a zero balance.  
It failed to do so. And instead, it added further charges, recorded  arrears for eight months
without telling him, and then recorded a default.  These were  significant errors and were 
bound to cause  problems for Mr P.
I considered what,  if any, documentation  Metro Bank  sent Mr P, and whether he should
have realised that something  was wrong and got in touch before he did. Metro Bank told us
that it sent Mr P regular  monthly statements for the account it should have closed. But it only
sent us a statement for January 2015, when Mr Ps account was still live, not any
subsequent statements.  So I wasnt  persuaded  that Metro Bank continued to send Mr P 
monthly statements. But in any case I thought  it was reasonable that Mr P thought that his 
account had been closed  in line with his wishes.
I also looked at the default notice, which Metro Bank said it sent in November 2015 but
which Mr P said he never received. I could see that the alleged default  statement had an
address on it which wasnt Mr Ps address when he contacted this service. I asked Mr P
when he left that address, and he said hed moved in November 2017.  So it wasnt that any
2015 default statement went to an incorrect address.
When evidence conflicts, I make my decision on what I think  is more  likely to have
happened. Here, I could  see that Mr P was organised. And it was a very different situation
from other defaults, where a consumer has genuinely defaulted and may or may not respond
to a default letter. Mr Ps situation was very different and I considered hed have  acted on it
promptly if he had received any default letter  as he did when he found  out the truth in April
2018.
Ref: DRN82840083As Metro Bank failed  to send any arrears  letters,  I thought  it was unlikely it sent any default
letter as it alleged. But even  if it did, I accepted  that Mr P didnt receive it because Im sure 
hed have acted  on it swiftly. And in any case,  its unusual for a lender  to issue a default 
notice when it hasnt  sent any arrears correspondence.  Metro Bank had accepted  that its
Collections team never had Mr Ps account,  and the bank never  sent any arrears letters and
made no phone calls about the balance.  So I found that the fault was Metro Banks, and Mr 
P wouldnt have known until he found  out another way in April 2018.
I went on to consider how Metro Bank dealt with Mr P when he told the bank what  hed
found out. I found that it failed to treat Mr P properly. I noted  that even after Metro Bank
recognised that it should have closed Mr Ps foreign  currency account, it specifically denied
that it had entered a default  against Mr Ps name. It told Mr P that nothing  it had done had
affected his credit file. This simply wasnt true. So Mr P had to go to the trouble of proving
this by obtaining a copy, in order to persuade Metro Bank.
And in Metro Banks first reply to Mr P in April 2018, all the bank did was refund the fees it
shouldnt have charged and closed the account  as it should have done some three years
earlier. It did nothing about  the significant  problem it had caused  by marking Mr Ps credit  file
for eight  months  and then recording a default.
I also accepted  Mr Ps statement that hed had to show a Metro Bank employee how to read
the credit  file. It was also clear, from the email  chain Mr P submitted to us, and the phone
recordings, that the issue wasnt dealt  with promptly and fairly  as soon as it came  to light. Mr
P had to spend  a lot of time, by email,  phone,  and on visits to the branch.
In order to assess of practical consequences, I asked Mr P for a copy  of his credit file, so
see whether or not it was more likely than not that it was the Metro Bank default which had
caused his two credit card rejections.  The copy he sent to us showed no other  arrears  or
defaults, just the eight  arrears and one default  placed by Metro  Bank.  I could see that this
had had a significant effect on Mr Ps credit score.
So I found that Metro Bank made  significant  errors:
- It failed to close Mr Ps foreign currency account when he asked the bank to do so. .
Mr P had consistently said, and I accepted, that he asked the bank to close it when  it
had transferred all the funds to his other Metro bank account;
- It added charges to an account  which it should have closed and where Mr P owed
nothing;
- Metro Bank somehow issued a default  on Mr Ps account without having undertaken
any of the normal  Collections  processes,  including  letters, phone  calls, or a default
notice;
- When Mr P found out and got in touch  with Metro Bank, it denied that it had entered
a default against his name, when it had done so;
- Metro Banks April 2018  letter only refunded the charges it should never have
charged and closed the account as it should  have done some three years earlier.  It
failed to address  the damage  it had done  to Mr Ps credit file;
Ref: DRN82840084- Overall,  Metro  Banks handling of Mr Ps complaint  was poor, and meant he had to
make repeated phone  calls, emails, two branch visits,  and obtain  a copy of his credit
file;
- I accepted, from the evidence of Mr Ps credit file, that it was more likely than not that 
it was Metro  Banks arrears markers and default which had contributed  to Mr P being
rejected for a credit  card by two different lenders;
- I also said that I intended to order Metro Bank  to remove not only the default  but also
the eight arrears markers, within a month of the date if Mr P accepts  a final decision.  
Mr P will need  to check his credit file again to ensure that this has been done,  so this 
will be additional inconvenience  for him.
I agreed with Mr P that these errors and customer service failings caused Mr P significant
distress and inconvenience. On the evidence Id seen to date, I considered  that, in addition  
to the £15 reimbursement for the credit file copy,  Metro Bank  should  pay Mr P a total of £600
compensation. 
Mr P also mentioned that hed been turned down for a mortgage  because of his credit file. O 
I said that if, with his response to my provisional  decision, Mr P wished to supply evidence 
showing this happened  during the period when the markers  were  on his credit file, I would 
consider this when  reviewing the amount of compensation  before a final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr P said he was happy with my provisional decision. He said he couldnt find the letters 
declining him for a mortgage, since hed moved,  so he would leave that.
Metro Bank  didnt accept  the provisional decision. It said that:
-it would  agree to reimburse the £15 Mr P paid to get a copy  of his credit report in 
20108, to prove the existence  of Metro Banks default and arrears  markers;
-it had removed the default and arrears markers in May 2018;
-it felt that £600 would be excessive  for its poor service, and the fact that Mr P had 
been rejected  for two credit  card applications.  Metro Bank said it considered this 
would only have  been fair if Mr P had been  declined for a mortgage because of the 
markers.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions. 
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  I find that Mr P suffered significant 
distress and inconvenience as a result  of Metro Banks errors, and its customer service 
failings. 
Ref: DRN82840085For the avoidance of doubt, I award £600 compensation on the basis of Mr P not having 
been able to provide evidence that he was declined for a mortgage because of Metro Banks 
errors. I would have considered higher compensation  had he been able to demonstrate  this 
loss. Metro Banks failings  were  significant and it is fair and reasonable that Mr P should  be 
compensated accordingly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I order Metro Bank PLC to:
- reimburse Mr P £15 for his financial loss in having to pay to obtain  a copy of his 
credit file in 2018; and
- pay Mr P £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused  by Metro Banks 
errors and poor customer service.
Mr P should  note that this service does not have the facility to check an individuals  credit file 
direct with the agencies.  He will need  to check this himself, in order  to satisfy himself  that 
Metro Bank  has indeed removed the default marker and all the eight arrears markers, as it 
says it has.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.  
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8284008