K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that TSB Bank PLC unfairly closed his account.
background
In June 2018 TSB told Mr C that they were  closing his cash account  with immediate effect. 
They said they were  doing this because  theyd found out he had a current  account  with 
another bank,  and this was against their terms and conditions. 
Mr C says he called TSB back,  and was told that his account was still open. The advisor  he 
spoke to suggested hed been speaking to fraudsters. But when Mr C then spoke to a 
manager, they confirmed that his account  was in fact closed. 
Mr C is very upset  about this. Although hes told us he no longer wants  TSB to re-open  his 
account, he thinks they should  pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
hes been caused. Hes says that contrary to what TSB have said he used the account  to 
pay his mortgage,  and received his wages into it.
Our investigator felt that TSB had acted fairly when they closed Mr Cs account. So they 
didnt think theyd done anything wrong.  
Mr C disagrees.  He says several  TSB managers told him that he could have  a cash  account  
and an account  with another bank. So he thinks hes been  treated unfairly.  And he says he 
hasnt received a letter  he was promised  telling him why this account was closed - or which 
of his other accounts  TSB have closed. So the case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr C will be disappointed,  but Im 
not going to ask TSB to pay him any compensation. Ill explain  why. 
The cash  account  terms and conditions say that to be eligible for the account a customer  
must not have access to another current account in the UK. TSB identified  that Mr C had an 
account with another  bank, and so wasnt eligible  for their cash account. So they took the 
decision to close it, without giving  Mr C any notice.  I appreciate this was upsetting for Mr C, 
but the terms and conditions  do allow TSB to close a cash  account immediately in these 
circumstances. So Im satisfied they were  entitled  do this.
Mr C says he was told by several TSB managers that he could have his cash  account and a 
current account with another  bank. He asked  us to listen to a call he had with TSB in June 
2018. TSB have now provided us with a recording of this call, and whilst its clear  Mr C 
thought he should be able to have both accounts, he wasnt  told at any point on the call that 
this was allowed. The terms  and conditions are very clear that the account is only for 
customers who dont have  access to a current account elsewhere. So whilst there  has 
clearly been a misunderstanding  here between Mr C and TSB, I think, on balance,  its 
unlikely TSB would have agreed he could have both accounts.
Mr C has told us he was using his cash account as his main bank account. He says he 
received his wages  into it, and paid his mortgage  from it. Looking  at his statements I can see 
monthly payments  going out that appear  to be for a mortgage. I cant  see any regular 
Ref: DRN80126472payments into the account that appear  to be wages  but I can see a number of faster 
payments were made  into and out of the account  by Mr C. And I think  it would be reasonable 
to assume any money he paid into the account was likely to be from his wages as hes told 
us.
However, the fact he was able to make these  faster payments shows  he has a bank account 
with another provider. So I think its fair TSB closed his account  on this basis.  And whilst I 
appreciate it would have been  inconvenient  for Mr C for to have to tell his mortgage provider 
and any other creditors about a change of bank account details, Im satisfied he still had 
access to another  bank  account to make  these payments and receive his wages. So I dont  
think TSB have treated  him unfairly.
In their final response letter to Mr C about this matter TSB said that it was clear he was 
unhappy with the service  they were providing  and that they felt the banking relationship had 
broken down, so as well as closing his cash account  they were also closing his savings 
accounts.
It seems  clear  Mr C has been dissatisfied  with, and complained formally about,  the service  
provided by TSB on a number of occasions. So I dont  think its unreasonable  TSB has 
concluded the relationship  between it and Mr C has broken down. I appreciate  Mr C might 
not have wanted to close his accounts  with TSB. But both parties are entitled  to review their 
banking relationship if either of them is unhappy.  And having looked  at the interactions Mr C 
had with TSB, I think its reasonable the bank took the decision to close his accounts  without  
giving two months notice.
Mr C is unhappy he hasnt  received a formal  letter from TSB confirming that theyve closed 
these accounts.  The terms  and conditions dont state that TSB have to send him a letter if 
they are closing an account  with immediate effect.  They say that they will do what they think  
is reasonable in the circumstances. But I can see the final response letter TSB sent Mr C, 
dated 7 June 2018, explained they were  closing his cash  account  and his saving accounts, 
and why they were  doing this. So Im satisfied  he was notified about  the closure of all three  
of his TSB accounts,  even if this wasnt in the manner he expected. 
I appreciate there may have been  some confusion when TSB first closed Mr Cs accounts as 
to what had happened. But this was quickly clarified and explained to him. I know Mr C will 
be disappointed, but I havent seen  any evidence TSB treated him unfairly here.  So Im not 
going to ask them to pay him any compensation for closing his accounts.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8012647