K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about St Andrews Insurance  Plc. 
background
Mr and Mrs M made a claim for a damaged waste system. St Andrews rejected the claim in 
part, they thought a pipe in the system may have been damaged  accidentally,  and agreed to 
cover this, but reserved  liability on whether it was actually accidental damage.  They  wouldnt 
pay for the works needed  to a drainage system  that had been overwhelmed  by the waste  
coming out of the system  after the damage occurred. Mr and Mrs M complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, and upheld the complaint. St Andrews didnt 
agree with their reasoning. Therefore the case has been passed  to me to review and make a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am upholding  complaint,  for basically the same reasons  as the investigator. 
There is some dispute here over what caused the original  damage to the pipe in question. 
Whilst I note both sides of this argument  I am minded to agree it was damaged accidentally. 
Although St Andrews  do not agree with that, and only offered  to pay for that element as a 
goodwill gesture, I do think that out of the explanations put forward the accidental damage  
one is the most plausible.  I will not be able to be absolutely sure, but I only have to think  it is 
over 50% probable  that it was accidental damage  for the claim to be valid.  
Once I have decided that the pipe damage  was accidental and should  be covered under that 
element of the policy, the drainage system issue becomes more straightforward. Its clear 
that the pipe damage caused the system  damage,  so should be covered unless that element 
is excluded, I dont  think it is. 
The relevant  exclusion here is for clearing blocked  drains and pipes. It seems clear  that the 
system in question can be defined in general sense as a drain,  but it isnt blocked,  basically 
its full. This isnt some blockage that can be removed and the system begins to flow again, 
so I dont think it is a blockage in a reasonable interpretation of that term. If the exclusion 
mentioned emptying as well as clearing  then this would be a more  difficult  argument to 
make, but it does  not. Equally if that part of system  had filled up normally  that wouldnt be 
covered by accidental  damage.  But, as the pipe failing led to the filling up I think, in this very 
particular set of circumstances, the restoration  of this part of the system is covered. 
I cannot be sure from the papers I have exactly what works are required here. And I would 
expect Mr and Mrs M to accept an appropriate  level of restoration,  as I wouldnt expect them  
to end up with a better system than they had before the damage,  or at least not without 
some cost to them. Equally though  the system should  be restored and it may be that some  
of it has to be changed to facilitate that. 
Ref: DRN82158032my final decision
St Andrews  Insurance Plc should arrange  for Mr and Mrs Ms waste  system to be reinstated  
in accordance with the terms of the policy, on the basis  that this isnt excluded by the drains 
wording. If there is any betterment and any contribution to that is in dispute that can be 
referred back to us as a new complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8215803