K821x#15complaint
Mr B, a director  of Company D, complains on its behalf that HSBC  UK Bank Plc has treated  
his Company unfairly in relation to blocking its account.
Background
In November 2019 I issued a provisional decision saying that I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions  before  I reached my 
final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
HSBC UK Bank Plc has agreed with the position  set out in my provisional decision. Mr B has 
responded and raised several  issues. Ill deal with these in turn.
Mr B notes that HSBC  doesnt have some call recordings. I agree thats  not ideal, but this 
doesnt stop me from being able to reach  a fair decision on the matter.
Mr B says HSBC was spreading false allegations  of the directors  of the company to cover 
their mistakes. Im not persuaded by this. HSBC (or any firm) is asking for evidence  to help 
it meet its regulatory obligations is very different to spreading  false allegations. 
Furthermore, I note Mr B accepts what  ever was said was said to him. So, Im not persuaded  
by what Mr B says here.
Mr B has then gone on to reiterate arguments  hes previously made and also comments 
which were part of the investigators  views-which  arent part of my decision. Having 
reconsidered the matter in the round Im satisfied my positions in my provisional decision 
address the arguments raised by Mr B throughout his complaint and in response to my 
provisional decision. As a consequence, I see no reason to increase the award made  as I 
think it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I dont think Mr B has provided any persuasive  reasoning for why I should change  my 
position. Accordingly, I see no persuasive reason to deviate from the position as set out in 
my provisional decision as copied below. Consequently, I award the suggested settlement of 
£250.
my final decision
For the above reasons and those described in my provisional decision attached  I award the 
suggested settlement  of £250 for inconvenience in this complaint about HSBC UK Bank  Plc. 
If HSBC has paid this amount  it has nothing further to do. If it hasnt it should make payment 
to Company D within 28 days of this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B on behalf of 
Company D to accept  or reject my decision before  11 January 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ref: DRN85513982ombudsman
Ref: DRN85513983Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B, a director of Company D, complains on its behalf that HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated his 
Company unfairly in relation  to blocking its account.
background
Mr B says the Companys account was blocked unfairly by HSBC  and that led to considerable  losses 
to the Company including having to move  its account to another bank and missing  out on business.
HSBC says that it required  information  from the Company  in order to meet its know your customer 
obligations. HSBC told the Company if it didnt cooperate then its account would be at risk of being 
blocked and then possibly  closed. It says that it got some of the information it needed but not all of it 
before it blocked the account.
Mr B complained on behalf of Company  D. HSBC felt that its position  with regard to this complaint 
was fair in the circumstances. Mr B didnt  agree. So, he brought the Companys complaint to this 
service. The investigator  agreed with Mr B and said HSBC should pay Company D £500 for the 
inconvenience it suffered. 
Both HSBC  and Mr B remain  unhappy with that proposed solution and accordingly  it has been passed 
to me for a decision. Mr B feels the level of redress is substantially short  of where it should be. HSBC  
feels the award is excessively generous for what happened and should  be significantly less than 
£500. 
my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
Having considered  the matter and seeing  both parties are of very different views  and being mindful  of 
the numerous issues and events in play in this dispute  I think it appropriate to set out my provisional  
position and let both parties have one final say in the matter.  I have only addressed the key issues as 
I see them  in order to make  a fair and reasonable decision about the matter. My provisional findings 
are as follows.
I can see that Mr B has tried to make arguments both regarding case  law from both contract  and tort 
law in his submissions. So, I think it important to make  clear a couple of points. Firstly,  this service  is 
set up to be a free, quick, impartial dispute resolution  service. It is not a court of law and although it is 
required to consider  relevant law it isnt bound  by it according to our rules. This service  has to make 
decisions on a fair and reasonable basis. And we make our decisions on the test set out in the statute  
(and following instruments) that created this service, which is the test of balance of probabilities.
I can see that HSBC wrote to the Company explaining what it needed  to complete its know your 
client obligations (known as Safeguard) in 2016 saying  if it didnt  receive it then there was a risk it 
would block then close the account. In July 2016 it wrote to Company D and noted that there was 
some missing details and that those were still needed.  There was then a significant amount of to 
and fro between  HSBC and Company D over the following months which  I dont intend to list entirely.  
I think  however  there are some notable events  (in order):
May 2017 HSBC  write to Company  D noting that if it doesnt provide what  is need it will block 
the account from 09 August and potentially close the account from 29 August.
June  2017 Company D provides  further  information to HSBC.
Ref: DRN8551398415 June 2017 HSBC  email Company D saying  it doesnt  have to do anything  further at that 
stage.
Later that week HSBC email again asking for further details regarding one of the directors of 
Company D. Company  D have  provided  a contemporaneous internal email showing that the 
director says he sent it to HSBC direct.
The next day Company  D email  HSBC  checking whether it had received what  it needed from 
the director.
Mid-August  Company  D email HSBC  referring to the account having been blocked and to an 
earlier call that day stating  that HSBC sought things that had already been provided.
The block  is then removed  ten business days after having been applied.
So, I currently  think  the block was applied unfairly. I say this because it is reasonable for account  
holders to rely on what a bank tell it. In this case HSBC had warned about  the potential for blocking a 
number of weeks  beforehand. Company D had provided  information  on occasions and then on the 15 
June HSBC  confirmed  to Company D it has nothing  further to provide at that stage. I think it 
reasonable for Company D to rely on this even though HSBC  could argue  that it could  have known 
there were items outstanding from earlier contacts. This is because  there had been a significant  
amount of to and fro already and as such I think its fair for this email to be relied upon because  of its 
nature and it being reasonable to expect  a business to know what its doing and be up to date with 
what it needs  for an initiative it started. I think it likely that had HSBC  properly communicated at that 
time the true situation  Company  D would have liaised further with it and the block wouldnt have  
happened.
So currently I think it reasonable for Company D to rely on this email and to understand from it that 
they were no longer at risk of the account being  blocked or closed. HSBC then make another  request 
which Company D provides. There is no further information requested and I think in these  
circumstances I can understand why Company D didnt feel the need to do any more as it didnt think  
it was at risk of being blocked based on what HSBC  had said to it. As a consequence, when  HSBC 
blocked the account, I think it did so due to its own failings in communicating  internally and with 
Company D. So, I currently think HSBC has treated Company D unfairly.
Company D have made a number of arguments why HSBC should  make a substantial payment to it 
in regard to what has happened. Im not persuaded  by these  and I shall deal with them in turn.
Losing clients  it otherwise  would have gained
Company D argues that it lost at least four clients who would otherwise have been acquired. Mr B 
says this was a result having to redirect its payments to (Company D) to an alternative account. As a 
result of that change, (a client of Company D) and its clients' confidence  in (Company D) was lost. I 
dont consider this argument to be persuasive of consequential loss. If confidence  were to be lost it 
would be lost in HSBC not Company D. Businesses change banks  regularly for a variety  of reasons 
and Mr Bs argument that due to changing banking  or having issues with the bank led Company Ds 
client and prospective clients to believe  it couldnt  provide the services it provides professionally 
doesnt follow.  Mr B has not explained how these prospective  clients considered  such  a redirection of 
payments to impact upon  Company Ds ability to provide  the services it does. Nor has he 
demonstrated how this block of ten days damaged Company Ds ability to provide its services. Indeed 
Mr B has not indicated  that Company D was stretched  for resources during this time. In fact Mr B has 
indicated that Company D was in a solid position generally. So, Im not persuaded  by what Mr B says 
about the causation between the block and not gaining  client business  as hes described.
Furthermore, Mr B has supplied  a letter  from Company  D to a client in question, in this 
correspondence Company  D states  that the client company owes  it money.  It also says this client had 
now suggested it was going to commence proceedings and that its threat  to inform clients and 
investors of the dispute indicates to me that this correspondence was with regard  to a different 
dispute involving Company D and not relating to that with HSBC. So, Im not persuaded that 
causation here has been made out. And to address a specific  point made by Mr B it is not unfair for 
the investigator to ask for evidence to support what Mr B says. Clearly  such a request is decidedly fair 
Ref: DRN85513985as it allows Mr B to strengthen his arguments with independent contemporaneous  evidence if he has 
such. And if no such evidence  is forthcoming the investigator can consider  that also in context.
For this argument about loss to be successful Id have to be persuaded the income quoted  would 
have been earned (less costs) had it not been solely (or at least substantially in the case of numerous  
causes) for HSBCs actions. Im not persuaded that this is the case  so I dont think it would  be fair for 
HSBC to bear the prospective loss of prospective profit derived from prospective business. I say this 
because not due to the lack of supporting evidence  as Mr B has suggested but because  Im not 
persuaded by his testimony that there was the necessary causation  between what he says was the 
cause (the block) to what he says was the effect (lost income/profit).
HSBC should pay for the management time of Company  D
During the ordinary course of banking  clearly account holders spend time dealing with their accounts  
and their bank; furthermore,  when complaining there is necessarily time expended on dealing with 
such matters.  And this service doesnt consider that time should be chargeable at the rate 
professionals charge for their time as they charge  that amount for their time providing  their 
professional expertise on matters pertaining  to that profession that they are taking part in. 
Here Company D was asked  to fulfil essentially  administrative tasks  in relation to its banking, which  is 
not what  Company  D offered as a service professionally. Having considered  all the evidence provided  
and particularly  the contemporaneous written  evidence Im not persuaded that the extensive hours  
being claimed  are supported  by the evidence from the time. It is this services role to consider the 
matter in the round  and determine the level of inconvenience fairly. So, although there is 
inconvenience to be remedied it is my position it will not be remedied as Mr B suggests it should.
Reputational loss
As Ive touched  on already Company D has argued that it has suffered significant reputational  
damage due to the block placed by HSBC and surrounding issues.  Mr B argues that but for this it 
would have won/kept significant  contracts with other businesses and hence seeks  to be redressed on 
the basis  of the income/profit it would have received.  Mr B says that because  of the fact that it shares 
offices with a client thats  how the client became  aware of issues with its banking and thus the reason 
for the change  had to be explained to them. 
Firstly, it is crucial to appreciate that a financial loss suffered  and the loss of a potential/expected gain 
are very different things.  It seems from Company Ds arguments that they are seen as one and the 
same by it. This is not the case. 
Financial loss suffered  means actual loss already  suffered (in the past) as opposed to missing out on 
a gain (which not only hadnt happened at the time of the event but also open  to the vagaries of other 
events, changes,  circumstances and potentially  not happening). Redress for financial loss suffered  is 
repayment of that loss (normally with interest) whereas redress for future loss is calculated  
accordingly to a variety  of factors including the probability of that potential gain actually being gained.
Im not persuaded  by Mr Bs argument regarding  reputational loss for a variety of reasons. Firstly, just 
because offices are shared  doesnt necessarily mean that the client in one of Mr Bs arguments would  
be party to confidential post, online banking  or telephone conversations. Secondly and importantly if 
Company D chose to divulge  information about its banking to other parties (such  as clients or 
potential clients) then that isnt the fault of HSBC and thus HSBC wouldnt bear any such loss for such  
information being given  by Company D as it wasnt  responsible  for the promulgation  of that 
information. 
I dont see how going through this process would harm  the reputation of Company D in relation to its 
professional services or liquidity. HSBC is a large  bank and Safeguard is a process which  it has gone 
through with its business  accounts and had been openly  reported  both by it and other media publicly 
for some time when these  events happened. 
Ref: DRN85513986As became  evident by HSBC eventually  completing its review it was happy with the evidence from 
Company D that it acquired and hence was happy for the account to have continued. Clearly it didnt 
consider it needed to close  the account on the basis of what it discovered about  Company D or its 
directors.
Furthermore it is apparent  from what Mr B says that Company D was able to set up banking facilities 
with another bank without significant problem.  This indicates also that Company D was in a sound 
financial position and that there werent  sufficient  concerns about  its directors for it to not take on 
Company Ds banking.  Both the other banks evident position and HSBCs eventual willingness to 
continue with the relationship support Mr Bs position regarding the sound position  of Company D and 
its directors.  And after all HSBC was simply trying  to ensure it knew its clients. It wasnt saying things 
to clients  or potential  clients which were tarnishing reputations.
Mr B has pointed to phone  calls Company D had with HSBC which it turns out are no longer  available. 
Mr B hasnt said Company  Ds clients were party to these calls in real time.  So, although it is 
unfortunate that these calls are no longer  available  Im not persuaded  that it makes  a difference. If 
such private calls were  recorded and provided  to Company Ds clients or potential clients that would 
have been done by Company D and it would be liable  for that decision and its consequences and not 
HSBC.  And even if that had happened all HSBC were trying to do was gain supporting evidence  to 
show it knew  its clients.
It is also of note that Company D hasnt been able to point to it being  unable to make  payments for 
any significant  time, particularly any time longer  than those of normal invoicing cycles  from business 
to business. So Im not persuaded that any client would have  reason to believe  liquidity or ability to 
provide professional services of Company D had been seriously impacted.
Regarding Mr Bs legal arguments as Im not persuaded that reputational loss has been  incurred the 
case law arguments  Mr B has made are largely  redundant.  However for completeness I should  add 
that even  if such loss was made out I still wouldnt  consider this case law binding upon me. This is 
because firstly I dont consider the case law quoted  to be sufficiently close in facts  to this situation to 
be precedent setting and secondly even  if it was the rules under which this service  operates allow me 
the latitude not to be bound by it if I can differentiate away from such  precedent on a fair and 
reasonable basis.  And I think I can, but that is moot as Im not persuaded on balance that such loss 
has been suffered as a result of what HSBC  did.
All in all, Im not persuaded  by the arguments made by Company D regarding causation  between  
what HSBC did and the various consequences Company D says it has suffered  as a result.  Hence, I 
dont think any of those losses described  by Company D should be remedied by HSBC. I do 
appreciate that there would  have been inconvenience caused by the block that on balance wouldnt 
have been applied if HSBC  had communicated  properly. But I think the award the investigator made 
is too high. Considering the length of the block and the contact between  HSBC  and Company D at the 
time which relatively promptly remedied the situation and that it was solely  Company Ds decision to 
change banks  (and thus it holds responsibility  for the inconveniences  of that) I currently think  an 
award of £250 is appropriate  for the inconvenience Company D suffered.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am currently minded to uphold the complaint against  HSBC UK Bank 
Plc by Mr B as representative of Company  D and that it should pay an award of £250 as Ive 
described above. I now invite both parties to give me their final thoughts on the matter within the 
timeline described above.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8551398