K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited incorrectly  marked  her account  
as settled and then set up a new finance agreement without her knowledge  or permission. 
Mrs B isnt happy that a default has been  placed on her credit file in relation to the new 
agreement.
background
Mrs B took out an agreement in August 2017 to finance the purchase of a car. The terms of 
that agreement  were that Mrs B would make  an advance payment of £1379 and then 
46 monthly repayments of £309.84.  In January 2019  BMW contacted Mrs B and explained 
that because of an administrative error  it had incorrectly marked  her account as settled in 
October 2018. BMW explained  that during the time that the agreement was reloaded on to 
the computer  system  no payments would be taken  from her account and so she would need 
to make a manual  repayment to bring  the account  up to date as no payments had been 
taken since October.
Mrs B responded to BMW  that having taken  legal advice she did not agree that the 
agreement could be re-instated because of the time that had passed  and a new agreement  
would have to be set up. Mrs B set out her terms for the new agreement  which  involved 
either returning the car at no further  cost or a new finance agreement  based on the current  
market value of the car. Mrs B said she had no obligations to make payments under a new 
agreement that she had not signed.  BMW didnt properly respond and Mrs B escalated her 
complaint to this service  in February 2019.
BMW set up a new agreement with a new agreement number in January 2019 and as Mrs B 
hadnt made any repayments under  this agreement BMW issued a default  notice in April 
2019. Both agreements  appear on Mrs Bs credit  file. One is marked as settled and the other  
is currently in default. BMW in its final response letter  in March did not accept that Mrs B was 
entitled to re-negotiate the agreement but in recognition of the inconvenience  caused it did 
offer to refund one monthly repayment.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  that the 
customer service  from BMW had been  poor.  In addition he thought  that Mrs B shouldnt be 
responsible for 3 monthly  repayments under the agreement from January to March 2019 and 
for the new agreement to be effective from April 2019. He thought that Mrs Bs credit file 
should be amended to reflect that the old agreement  was settled rather than terminated.  He 
also thought BMW should pay Mrs B £200  to reflect the trouble and upset caused. 
Mrs B didnt wholly agree with the adjudicators view and in particular said she was not 
happy to enter into a new agreement with BMW and wanted to return  the car and have her 
credit file rectified and compensation.  
On 7 May 2020  I made  a decision  setting  out my provisional findings and explaining why I 
didnt agree with the adjudicator. This was sent to Mrs B and she responded by email on 7 
May 2020 setting  out that I had missed the point legally  and explaining why she didnt agree 
with my conclusions. On 20 July 2020 Mrs B sent a further email stating she had not 
received my provisional  decision. On 28 July 2020 after my decision was forwarded again to 
Mrs B, she sent an email and said that she had taken legal advice and her solicitor  was now 
dealing with matters  on her behalf.    
BMW didnt make any comments on my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN88394782my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also considered all of Mrs Bs 
emails about her concerns with my provisional  conclusions.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but I dont  agree  that it is fair or reasonable to unwind the 
whole agreement because of an administrative error  by the business. I do understand the 
point she is making regarding the legality  of the new agreement.  This is a matter for the 
court and I cant decide whether an agreement  is enforceable against her. I can only look at 
what I think is fair and reasonable taking into account what she initially  agreed  to and what  
has happened since. I dont see any reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision which are set out below.
Mrs B is free to reject my conclusions  and pursue matters  through  the courts. 
Extract from Provisional  Decision  
On 25 September  2018 Mrs B requested a settlement  figure for her agreement which was 
valid until 23 October. In October 2018 BMW received  a settlement amount that appeared to 
correspond with the amount outstanding  on Mrs Bs account and it incorrectly applied that 
settlement to Mrs Bs account. At the same  time BMW wrote to Mrs B and confirmed to her 
that the agreement was settled and no further  payments  would be taken. Mrs B did not 
contact BMW in response to that letter to advise that there  had been  an error. Mrs B didnt 
contact BMW when no payments were taken  from her account as she would have  been  
expecting. 
The error came to light in January 2019  and BMW called and emailed Mrs B to explain what  
had happened. Mrs B had not paid off what was owed under her agreement  and had 
continued to have use of the car without  making  any payments for three months. It was 
explained to Mrs B that she would need  to make manual payments and bring her account up 
to date whilst the agreement was reloaded on to the system. 
I have seen nothing  to suggest that there were any issues with the car. The agreement  that 
Mrs B entered into in August  2017  was to pay for the car over 46 months.  She would be able 
to use the car provided she made the repayments. I dont currently see how the error  made  
by BMW would entitle  her to return the car and have  no liability  for any more  repayments.
I understand why Mrs B thinks  that she doesnt have any legal  responsibilities under a new 
agreement that she didnt sign. I have to look at what  is fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances. I dont  currently  think that it is fair that an error made by BMW in applying  a 
settlement incorrectly should release Mrs B from her obligations under the agreement.
BMW have set up an identical agreement on the same terms and Mrs B is no worse off than 
if the error  had not been made. She will pay the same  under the new agreement as she 
would have under  the old agreement and all of the rights and responsibilities remain  the 
same. AS BMW has suggested it is an administrative  process.
Mrs B has suggested that the error  should improve her position under the agreement and 
she should be able to renegotiate more favourable terms either by a reduced repayment or 
by handing the car back with no liability. I dont currently think  that this is fair or reasonable in 
Ref: DRN88394783the circumstances. I dont agree that the handling of this matter by BMW is enough to 
suggest that all confidence has been  eroded and the agreement should be unwound. Mrs B 
still has the car she bargained for.  
If Mrs B no longer wants to keep the car then there are contractual options  such as voluntary 
termination, if applicable, or settling the agreement.
I think that Mrs Bs credit file should reflect the situation and it is confusing  for future lenders 
for there to be two agreements.  I note that the second agreement  was marked as terminated 
on the basis that Mrs B said she wouldnt make  any repayments and 3 months  arrears  were 
due at the time it was set up as Mrs B hadnt paid since October. I currently think that Mrs B 
has genuinely believed  that she has no liability for repayments rather than an inability to pay. 
In the circumstances, provided Mrs B brings  the agreement back  up to date then the credit 
file should be amended  to remove all adverse data including the default and BMW should 
ensure that only one agreement shows on the credit  file. Having two agreements  gives  a 
misleading picture to future lenders.
I do accept that BMW  has not handled this matter correctly. It took a considerable amount of 
time for the error to be identified and I have no doubt that it was frustrating for Mrs B when 
BMW did not properly  engage with her complaint. I currently think that the offer of a refund of 
one months rental is fair and reasonable to compensate for this error and I dont think BMW 
should do any more.  I dont consider that a further  £200 for trouble and upset is fair or 
reasonable.           
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and BMW  Financial Services(GB)  
Limited should refund one months  rental  and amend Mrs Bs credit file as set out above  if 
and when she brings the account up to date.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept  or reject  my decision  before 4 September 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8839478