K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
In 1995 Mr W took out a loan in one of the banks branches along with a PPI policy to protect 
the loan monthly  repayments. He borrowed extra and paid upfront for the PPI. So the cost of 
the policy was added  to the loan and interest  charged. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W disagrees.  
Mr Ws main complaint  is that he didnt realise  he had PPI. Mr W also says he didnt know it 
was optional  and if PPI had been  properly explained he wouldve declined it as he had 
sufficient cover already.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
Lloyds couldnt  provide  Mr Ws signed credit  agreement. But it isnt surprising, given  how 
long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available.  I wouldnt expect the bank or 
Mr W to have kept this. 
And I cant know exactly what  was discussed  when Mr W arranged his loan. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  him to recall  in detail what was said at the time. Its completely 
understandable that Mr W mightve  forgotten the details  of a sale that took place so long 
ago. So I cant just rely on what Mr W says he can remember now. 
Ive seen an example  of the loan agreement that Mr W wouldve had to sign to get his loan.  
Theres a section on the form headed OPTIONAL LOAN REPAYMENT PROTECTION and 
there are YES and NO tick boxes.
The NO box is clearly shown on the form. I think that Mr W wouldve seen this. And he 
couldve marked this box if he hadnt wanted  PPI.  
So I think the wording  and layout of the loan agreement highlights the fact that PPI was a 
matter of choice. And its likely that PPI was added to Mr Ws loan account as he indicated 
on the form that he wanted to have it. 
Lloyds says it advised Mr W to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  for him 
based on what I know about Mr Ws circumstances  at the time. 
Ref: DRN84265722Lloyds told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mr W took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use shortly afterwards  so I think  
its likely  that in all main  respects the policy that Mr W took out wouldve had similar terms 
and conditions.
If hed made  a successful  accident or sickness claim, the policy  wouldve paid out for as long 
as Mr W was off work  if necessary, until the loan was paid off. So the policy wouldve paid 
out for significantly longer than Mr W couldve depended  on getting full sick pay from his 
employer if he was off work. And the policy couldve also covered the loan monthly  
repayments for up to 12 months if Mr W lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Although he had some life cover set up through his employer,  PPI provided a different sort of 
cover and paid out in different circumstances.
Relying on someone  else to help out in the event  of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped if Mr W was off work sick. PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to any redundancy  money  he mightve  got, giving him some  additional financial 
security if hed lost his job.  
I dont know if Mr W wouldve always had savings he wouldve been able to rely on if hed 
needed to make a claim.
Ive taken into account that Mr W mentioned having equity in a property. But having the 
policy meant he wouldnt have had to put his property at risk by borrowing  against this to 
cover the monthly  loan repayments. 
Looking at Mr Ws circumstances at the time,  I think the PPI provided him with a useful 
benefit and it was suitable for him. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ws case. So, I dont think more information  about the policy  exclusions and limitations 
wouldve changed his mind about having PPI.
Its unlikely that Lloyds explained  when  Mr W bought the cover that he wouldnt get a 
proportionate refund on the PPI if he paid the loan off early.  But theres no indication  he was 
likely to do this when  he took it out, so I dont think that wouldve affected his decision to buy 
the policy. 
Looking at the example of the agreement Mr W wouldve  had to sign to get his loan, I can 
see that Lloyds  set out details showing what the PPI premium would cost and what the total 
loan would be on the loan agreement. So Mr W wouldve been able to see this. 
I agree  that it mightnt have been  clear how much interest hed pay. But I dont believe the 
amount wouldve been enough to put Mr W off taking out the PPI. Mr W chose to buy the 
cover when he didnt  have to  and I can understand why. I think  the policy offered him 
useful benefits  in his particular situation and his monthly repayments seem  to have been 
affordable. I dont think that having better information about the policy  wouldve  made  any 
difference. 
Ref: DRN84265723This means  I dont  find that Mr W has lost out as a result of anything  that Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8426572