K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limiteds (AA) service in 
connection with her motor  insurance policy.
background
In February 2018  Mrs K was involved in an accident.  AA arranged for her car to be repaired. 
In June 2018 Mrs Ks car failed its MOT because of an issue with its brakes. An engineer 
said the problem  was with the cars  anti-lock  braking system (ABS).
Mrs K felt that the ABS issue  was connected with the accident. So she thought that AA 
should pay for the repairs. She brought her complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator  
thought AA had handled  the matter reasonably. Mrs K didnt agree so her complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Ks made a number of detailed  points and I've considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
points. 
Mrs K said that AAs garage  didnt do enough checks before returning  the car to her. And if it 
had it might have identified the brake  issue at that point. But I understand that the garage  
didnt work  on the brakes or the ABS system when repairing Mrs Ks car. So, I wouldnt have 
expected it to rigorously test those components before returning the car. I know  that the 
garage did a road test, to make sure that the car was driving safely. And I think thats all it 
was required to do at the time.
I note that theres  no evidence, beyond Mrs Ks comments, that the ABS/braking  issue was 
connected to the accident  or repairs. Mrs Ks said that theres equally no evidence  that the 
problem wasnt connected to the accident  or repairs.  But when assessing a car following an 
accident Im aware  that engineers will examine it to look for likely areas of damage. And 
theres simply no evidence that the ABS system  was damaged at that point. So in the 
absence of evidence  of any damage  at the time, I think, on balance, its likely that the fault 
occurred at some point in the four months between  the repairs  being completed and Mrs Ks 
car failing her MOT. 
Mrs K also said that AA essentially accepted that it was at fault and told her it would  repair 
her car. But I think shes mistaken. Ive seen that AA said that it would have Mrs Ks car 
checked out. And its notes of the call say that if related  it would pay for the repairs.  In other 
words I think it told Mrs K that if it found that the cars problem was related to the earlier 
damage it would cover  the costs. But as Ive said above theres  simply no persuasive 
evidence that the ABS damage  was related to the earlier repairs.  So I don't think  AA needed 
to cover the costs of the repairs to Mrs Ks car. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN88756322Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8875632