K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained through her financial adviser  that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) hasnt calculated her loss appropriately  which arose from advice she received in 
November 2011  that didnt fully utilise her annual ISA allowance. She invested £10,000 in a 
With-Profits bond under which gains made within the fund are taxed at 20 per cent. Also,  as 
she was a higher  rate taxpayer, she would suffer an excess rate income tax charge of 20 per 
cent on the overall profit made by the bond  when  she came to surrender  it.
If, on the other hand, Mrs C had invested her available allowance of £5,340 in a stocks and 
shares ISA, there would have been no tax charge  on gains made within  the fund(s) and the 
surrender proceeds  would be paid to her free of capital gains tax (CGT)  and income  tax. 
Furthermore, the remaining balance of £4,660 could have been placed in a more tax-efficient 
investment than a With-Profit bond, such as a collective investment product.
Nat West agreed that Mrs C had not been given  the most tax-efficient advice and that, if she 
was proposing to surrender the With-Profit  bond,  it would  reimburse the excess  rate tax she 
would incur on any gain it made. Otherwise,  it concluded that the £10,000 Mrs C invested in 
the bond had produced a greater  return  than if Mrs C had invested £5,340 and £4,660 
respectively in these  alternative products and shes suffered no investment loss.   
Mrs C didnt accept this decision because  NatWest had assumed  that the With-Profit bond 
and more suitable alternatives - an ISA and a collective  investment - would provide the same  
internal investment return without consideration of the tax advantages of an ISA and a 
collective investment over a With-Profit  bond on internal gains made  within the fund.  The 
respective investments would not produce the same  long returns in the same funds.
background
I issued a provisional decision in February  2020, in which I proposed  a basis  of redress that 
differed from the recommendation made by the adjudicator and by NatWest.  My reasoning  is 
set out in the provisional decision,  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
Briefly, I concluded  that the advice Mrs C received to invest £10,000 in a With Profit Bond 
wasnt tax-efficient for her as she was a higher  rate taxpayer.
However, as she had already utilised £5,340 of her annual ISA allowance for tax year 
2011/2012, she only had scope in November 2011 to have invested a further  £5,340 in a 
stocks and shares ISA. I, therefore, proposed that NatWest should assess whether Mrs C 
had been financially disadvantaged by not investing  the remaining £4,660 in a more  tax-
efficient product, such as a collective investment, using our prescribed guidance for this loss 
assessment.
developments
In response, NatWest  disagreed with my provisional view and said:
Mrs C received an invitation to have the advice she received reviewed which  
assessed the overall suitability of the advice, including the tax implications;
Ref: DRN85391842therefore, it doesnt agree with my reasoning for the basis  of redress.  While the 
redress suggested for £5,340 matches the proposal made  by the bank,  Ive extended 
the scope of the complaint to review the suitability of the advice to invest  the whole 
£10,000. Its important  to note that the Bank has never received a complaint from 
Mrs C about the suitability of this investment  and that the complaint raised  is as a 
result of the Bank undertaking a proactive review in accordance  with FCA guidance;
the complaint  raised has not questioned the suitability  of the investment or the total 
investment amount;  only redress  in respect  of £5,340 ought  to have been invested in 
a more tax-efficient   ISA;
there should be no consideration of the remaining £4,660 that was invested in the 
With Profit bond.  I have therefore  extended  the scope of the complaint;
while NatWest offered Mrs C the whole  of the excess tax she paid on fully 
surrendering the With Profit bond, this was an ex-gratia gesture. It would have 
appropriate to reimburse tax paid only in relation to £5,340  that should have been 
placed in a tax efficient  product;
the remaining  £4,660 invested  in the bond was entirely suitable for Mrs C because  
she wished to take a cautious risk, didnt wish an investment  which  fluctuated in 
value (which was the reason she surrendered her existing stocks and shares ISA), 
wanted a smoothing effect, was content to invest for five to 10 5 years (and has done  
so for eight years)  and because  the With Profit  Fund is inherently diversified;
the advisers suitability letter clearly stated  that the customer cashed-in her existing 
stocks and shares ISA as she didnt want fluctuations in values;
the redress I proposed appears overly complex and based on an incorrect  
assumption that the bank believes the remaining amount should  have been invested 
differently;
it understands why I thought that the whole £10,000 should have been  invested 
elsewhere because  the bank offered to pay the tax liability on the whole sum and 
used incorrect figure  in its calculations. These were genuine mistakes  redress  
should have reimbursed Mrs Cs tax liability on 53.4 per cent of the bonds surrender 
value;
the scope  of the review which indicated that the advice Mrs C received would be 
assessed entirely from a taxation  perspective was more  expansive and took into 
account the overall suitability of the advice;
it would  have been beneficial to have  categorically stated that the bank believed  
£4,660 had been suitably  invested. But this doesnt change  its view that redress is 
due on the amount  of £5,340 Mrs C ought to have invested in an ISA;
a collective investment might  be more tax efficient than a With Profit bond,  but only 
based on the current tax regime. The dividend allowance was introduced  initially in 
2015, effective  from April 2016,  and subsequently lowered to £2,000  in 2018, so it 
would not have been relevant when this investment was recommended.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with my provisional findings  and with NatWests response  
as follows:
where a complaint relates to an investment  being unsuitable due to its risk 
characteristics, my redress is assessing  what may have been the outcome from an 
investment in a suitable risk category had that been used. But this complaint doesnt 
relate to the investment being unsuited in terms of its risk characteristics, but purely  
in terms of its tax treatment;
the use of a benchmark  assuming  50 per cent is allocated to short  dated  bonds  is 
wholly inappropriate and doesnt  reflect the risk to which Mrs Cs money was 
Ref: DRN85391843exposed. As such, what needs  to be considered  is the impact of the additional tax 
Mrs C should not have incurred, and no more;
the correct and fair approach to quantifying her loss is to assess the tax deducted  
internally and from the sale proceeds she would not have  been  suffered had suitable  
advice been given;
although the precise investment could  not have been recommended  in a suitable  
format, since a version without its unsuitable  tax treatment does not exist,  this 
doesnt mean its appropriate to make up an imaginary alternative, with a different 
underlying investment  allocation;
the correct approach  is to compare on a like-for-like basis,  assuming the suitable 
investment would have made the same  underlying return  and the only difference  is 
the tax deduction. This only fair and reasonable approach when comparing two 
investments in exactly the same risk category is to assume no difference  in the 
underlying investment  performance;
as such, no speculation  is needed as to the type of investment Mrs C ought  to have 
taken out because her loss is the tax shes incurred and that is known;
I should adjust  the redress calculation so its based on the actual and known amount 
of unnecessary tax Mrs C suffered, which is £1,654;
NatWest didnt offer to refund all of the tax Mrs C incurred when she surrendered  the 
bond - it offered to refund 50 per cent and she has asked it to refund all the tax she 
incurred, including  the tax on gains within the With Profit fund;
Mrs C has complained  that the entire  advice is unsuitable. She has made it clear that 
her complaint is that none of the money should  have  been  invested in the bond 
because, for her, its tax-inefficient and the entire investment, therefore, represented 
unsuitable advice;
there is no consistency in NatWests  argument  that it was wrong  to recommend the 
part of the investment  which could have been  placed in a stocks  and shares  ISA, but 
right to recommend  the part which could not. Both parts  gave access  to identical 
investments and both had substantially better  tax treatments than the With Profit 
bond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Past Business Review  initiated by NatWest  in March 2018  stated that: What  we 
looked at and what we found  is that: Your Aviva Portfolio Bond wasnt  suitable  because the 
product or service didnt appropriately  take account  of your tax position. 
As such,  Mrs Cs representative  questioned the loss calculation which was based on the 
whole £10,000  she invested in the With Profit bond. He complained  on her behalf that it 
wasnt appropriate for Mrs C to have invested  in the bond at all given  her tax status - she 
ought to have invested £5,340 in an ISA and the remaining  £4,660 in (say) a collective 
investment. This does  seem to be the basic premise of NatWests  loss calculations  it 
attached to its review  letter in March 2018.
So, in my view, NatWest has changed/widened the scope of the review once Mrs C 
complained to include consideration of the overall suitability of the advice to the exclusion of 
the tax issue on the remaining part of her investment of £4,660.  And, yet, NatWest  offered to 
reimburse the whole  of the excess tax charge she incurred when fully surrendering the With 
Profit bond in July 2019 which  implies that it was assessing the tax issue  after all.
Ref: DRN85391844If I consider  the scope  of the review,  as it was presented  to Mrs C in March 2018, I still think 
it was appropriate  to question whether, as a higher  rate taxpayer, she ought to have  invested  
any of the £10,000 in the bond. I appreciate  from the point of sale documentation that she 
was reluctant to invest in risk-based product (which probably explains why she only invested 
£5,340 in a Cash ISA in November 2011). 
But it seems  the stocks and shares  ISA she surrendered at a loss invested in funds that 
presented a greater  risk to her money than the assumption agreed by NatWest  in May 2019  
in proposing the 50/50 benchmark rate that assumed  she invested in funds  that presented a 
low risk to her capital.
If, for tax reasons, its agreed that Mrs C perhaps  ought to have invested the balance of 
£4,660 in a collective investment that invested  in similar  low risk funds, I still think  its 
reasonable to compare  the return she received on this sum from the bond and the return she 
might have received  from a more tax-efficient product in accordance  with the terms of the 
review.
The second  part of the redress formula I proposed is based on our prescribed guidance for 
loss of tax benefits  on failing  to invest in an ISA in the current  tax year.  This formula 
assumes Mrs C would have invested  in the same fund of a collective investment which has 
different tax treatment than if she had invested in an ISA. Our assumption is that these 
investments pay a dividend distribution  of 2.5% (which, for a higher rate taxpayer, such  as 
Mrs C, would be taxed at 32.5% in years where the dividend allowance  didnt apply) and 
growth of five per annum  for the period 25 November 2011  to 12 July 2019, or 7.63 years. 
In other  words, she would  receive  a net dividend distribution of 67.5 % if it was taxed and 
100 per cent in tax years since April 2016 where  she was able to utilise  her dividend 
allowance. 
In response to the points made  by Mrs Cs representative, I appreciate his argument that 
were replacing a favourable return shes actually received from the With Profit  bond (that 
could simply be grossed-up)  with one Mr C might have received hypothetically based on a 
benchmark rate comprising a mix of indices. So, I understand why it would practical  simply 
to reimburse the tax charges she incurred  with the With Profit fund and when she 
surrendered the bond.
I agree  that we cant say for certain how Mrs C wouldve otherwise invested if shes received 
more tax-efficient advice.  The benchmark rate assumes 50 per cent of her capital received a 
return based on the FTSE UK Private Investors  Income Total Return  Index, which,  together 
with 50 per cent of her capital receiving the return obtained from 12 to 17 month fixed  rate 
bonds, presents  a combined return appropriate for an investor who wished to take a low 
degree of risk. 
And, if its agreed that Mrs C should  have invested  £5,340 in a stocks and shares ISA, its 
unlikely she could have  placed this money  in a With Profit fund. So, we have to imagine what  
mix of funds  she would have chosen  for someone with an agreed cautious or low attitude 
to risk and this is why we recommend the 50/50  benchmark  rate. 
Alternatively, I could  have requested NatWest to assume Mrs C invested in an ISA fund that 
exactly matched the asset mix within the With Profit fund at the time and simply take the 
return she actually received, albeit grossed-up. But that wouldnt take account  of the 
Ref: DRN85391845particular characteristics  of the With Profit fund, such  as smoothing and the fund managers 
option to alter the asset mix of the With-Profit fund, as necessary, on a regular basis. 
Similarly, if the remaining  £4,660 ought  to have been invested in a more  tax-efficient product 
than the Portfolio Bond - say a collective investment scheme - again, the return she received 
from the With Profit fund wouldnt be relevant. 
All things  considered, Im inclined to follow the conclusions  I reached in my provisional 
decision - that redress should  be based on the assumption that Mrs C should have invested 
the whole  of her £10,000, not in the With Profit bond  but in more tax-efficient products. That 
was the terms of reference  of the review  carried out by Nat West.
I agree  with NatWest  that an adjustment would need  to be made  to the net dividend 
distribution Mrs C might  have received from a collective investment  in the period before the 
dividend allowance applied.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct National Westminster  Bank 
Plc to pay her redress, if any on the basis I proposed in my provisional decision, as follows.
Stocks and shares  ISA (£5,340)
I have considered whether NatWest should simply apply the return  Mrs C received from the 
With-Profit bond, proportionate  to an original investment  of £5,340  (and then grossed up by 
20 per cent).  But, as I mentioned above, as a With-Profit probably wouldnt have been 
available for a stocks  and shares ISA, I dont  think applying this return would be appropriate.
I cant say for sure what  ISA fund Mrs C would have chosen in November 2011. 
But I think its reasonable to calculate  the return she would have received on a capital sum of 
£5,340 from 25 November 2011  to 12 July 2019 using the benchmark  rate represented by 
50 per cent FTSE UK Private  Investors Income  Total Return Index and 50 per cent average 
rate from fixed rate bonds.
NatWest should  use the monthly  average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each  month is that shown as at 
the end of the previous  month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted capital  growth with a small risk to her capital;
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital; 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk for a 
higher return;  
I consider that Mrs Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
Ref: DRN85391846combination would reasonably put Mrs C in that position. It does not mean that Mrs C 
would have invested 50 per cent of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50 per cent in 
some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mrs C could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude. 
Collective investment (£4,660)
NatWest should  calculate the return Mrs C could  conceivably have received on £4,660  
placed in a collective investment from 25 November 2011 to 12 July 2019 that paid her a 
dividend distribution  and returned seven-and-a-half per cent per annum, as follows:
£4,660 x two-and-a-half per cent per annum dividend distribution rate (which wont  be 
subject to tax at 32.5 per cent since April 2016 if Mrs C has retained a sufficient  
amount of her dividend allowance)  for the period 25 November 2011 to 12 July 2019;
plus
£4,660 x five per cent growth per annum compound for the period 25 November 
2011 to 12 July 2019.
I note that NatWest offered to reimburse the excess income tax charge  Mrs C incurred when 
surrendering the bond on 12 July 2019.  But, for the reasons given earlier,  there is no need  to 
reimburse Mrs C this charge as it forms part of the loss calculation  by default Ive proposed  
above.
If the combined value  of the ISA and collective investment at 12 July 2019  is greater than 
the net value of Mrs Cs With-Profit bond of £13,305.84  at that date, NatWest should pay her 
this difference,  plus interest on this sum at eight per cent per annum simple from 12 July 
2019 to the date of settlement. Income  tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
If the combined value  of the ISA and collective investment at 12 July 2019  is less than the 
net value of Mrs Cs With-Profit  bond of £13,305.84 at that date, no redress  is due. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85391847COPY OF PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs C has complained through a third-party adviser that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
hasnt calculated her loss appropriately arising  from advice she received in November 2011 that didnt 
fully utilise her annual ISA allowance. She invested £10,000 in a With-Profits  bond under  which gains  
made within the fund are taxed at 20 per cent.  Also, as she was a higher rate taxpayer, she would 
suffer an excess rate income tax charge of 20 per cent on the overall profit  made by the bond when 
she came  to surrender  it.
If, on the other hand, Mrs C had invested her available allowance of £5,340 in a stocks and shares 
ISA, there would have been no tax charge on gains  made within  the fund(s)  and the surrender 
proceeds would be paid to her free of capital gains tax (CGT) and income tax.
Furthermore, the remaining  balance of £4,660 could have been placed  in a more  tax-efficient 
investment than a With-Profit bond, such as a collective investment product.
Nat West agreed that Mrs C had not been  given the most tax-efficient advice and that, if she was 
proposing to surrender  the With-Profit bond, it would  reimburse the excess  rate tax she would incur 
on any gain it made. Otherwise,  it concluded  that the £10,000 Mrs C invested in the bond had 
produced a greater return than if Mrs C had invested £5,340 and £4,660 respectively in these  
alternative products  and shes suffered no investment loss.   
Mrs C didnt accept this decision because NatWest had assumed that the With-Profit bond and more 
suitable alternatives - an ISA and a collective  investment - would  provide the same internal 
investment return without  consideration of the tax advantages of an ISA and a collective investment  
over a With-Profit bond on internal gains  made within  the fund.  The respective investments would not 
produce the same  long returns in the same funds.
       
background
In response, NatWest argued that its calculations  were sound.  It said that the With-Profit  bond was a 
suitable product, except  that Mrs C ought  to have invested £5,340 of her £10,000 to utilise her 
remaining ISA allowance for tax year 2011/2012.  But, while the bond remained in force, it was difficult 
to quantify her loss of tax benefits by not investing £5,340 in an ISA-wrapper.
So, it followed  guidance  prescribed by our service for investors  who failed to utilise their annual ISA 
allowance in any tax year.  As Mrs C had retained the With -Profit  bond to-date,  and had enough 
funds to have made use of her intervening  annual  ISA allowances, it was fair to assume she had lost 
tax benefits for 10 years on an annual return of five percent per annum  compound on that part of her 
investment that could  have been ISA-wrapped.  
And, as it was reasonable  to assume that all possible investments were held in a capital gains tax 
(CGT) environment,  the overall  return on the respective  investments will be the same. Its the taxable 
gain that differs for the ISA-part  of the investment.
But, as Mrs Cs prospective gains  after 10 years would  fall below the future CGT exemption limit, she 
would suffer no tax charge even though shes a higher rate taxpayer.  If she did decide to surrender 
the With-Profit bond soon and, in doing so, suffered a tax liability, NatWest would consider  
reimbursing her this tax charge.
One of our adjudicators  considered Mrs Cs complaint  and felt that NatWest had satisfactorily  shown 
that shed suffered  no loss by investing £5,340 in the With-Profit bond  for tax year 2011/2012 rather 
than in an ISA - the projected value  after 10 years of £5,340  invested in the bond of £8,633 was at 
least £1,000 more  than if it had been invested in an ISA. In other words,  the With-Profit bond had out-
Ref: DRN85391848performed the fair rate the ISA would have achieved  after 10 years (even  allowing for its tax 
advantages).   
In response, Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and said that:
it cant be appropriate  to conclude  that no loss arises  from an unsuitable investment  if it 
returned at least five per cent per annum, regardless of the return a more suitable  investment 
might have made over the same period;
the correct approach should be to compare  actual returns and those  that would have been 
achieved by a suitable investment using  an appropriate  benchmark of indices used in most 
loss calculations;
it doesnt follow that Mrs C has suffered  no loss since the gain falls within  her capital gains tax 
exempt threshold. Gains made  by investment  bonds are chargeable to income  tax, and not 
to capital  gains tax, and, as a higher rate taxpayer, Mrs C doesnt have  a tax threshold.
The adjudicator accepted he had incorrectly  stated that gains made by investment bonds are 
chargeable to CGT and understood  the offer made by Nat West  that, if Mrs C was intending to 
surrender the With-Profit bond, it would  consider reimbursing any excess  rate tax charge she 
suffered. He added that the redress he was proposing was not compensation for Mrs C necessarily 
investing in an unsuitable  product - he was looking to identify:
what tax disadvantages,  if any, she had suffered by investing in the bond rather  than in an 
ISA and another more tax-efficient product and
what investment  loss, if any, she had suffered, compared  to the gains made by alternative 
investment that paid dividend distributions  of seven-and-a-half per cent per annum 
(comprising five per cent growth and two-and-a-half  per cent dividend income).
On this basis, he concluded that £5,340 invested in the bond would provide a return after 10 years of 
£8,633, whereas £5,340 invested in an ISA would  produce a return of £7,590,  plus a tax benefit of 
£562. So, even allowing  for the relative tax treatments,  the With-Profit bond still returned Mrs C 
around £480  more than if she had utilised  her ISA allowance.
In response, Mrs Cs representative maintained that the adjudicators calculations didnt account for 
internal gains  made  by the underlying With Profit fund being subject to tax at 20 per cent, whereas the 
funds within an ISA are not.
In the meantime, NatWest  said that:
it agreed to meet any additional income tax liability Mrs C will incur  when she surrenders the 
bond;
regarding the calculation of Mrs Cs investment  loss, it is reasonable to determine whether 
she has been  disadvantaged to-date by placing  £5,340 into a non-ISA  product that suffered 
tax on the underlying fund;
but it would be difficult to decide how its value has been affected by tax on the underlying 
fund, and there  is no ISA version of this With-Profit product for NatWest to make a valid 
comparison. As such, it thinks its reasonable to compare the actual performance of the bond 
and the growth it would  have achieved based  on the benchmark rate our service adopts for 
investors wishing to take a cautious approach to investment risk; that is, 50 per cent UK 
Private Investor Income Total Return Index and 50 per cent average rate from fixed rate 
bonds;
the rate of return it previously used of 5 per cent per annum compound - intended  to 
determine whether  there would be a future  tax liability after 10 years  wasnt appropriate.  So, 
the figures used by the adjudicator in his assessment arent valid either, as they project future 
values after 10 year rather than when  Mrs C comes to surrender  the bond.
As agreement  has not been reached in this complaint, it has been referred  to me for review.
Ref: DRN85391849provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Its agreed that Mrs C ought to have  been  advised in November 2011 to utilise her unused ISA 
allowance for tax year 2011/2012 of £5,340, rather than to invest £10,000 in a With-Profits  bond.  
Given NatWest has also agreed to reimburse the whole  of the excess rate tax she suffered when she 
surrenders the With-Profit  bond, I take it from this that it believes Mrs C should have invested the 
balance of £4,660 in a more  tax-efficient product.
There are, therefore, two elements in the assessment of the total loss Mrs C may have suffered by 
investing £10,000 in the With-Profit,  rather than placing £5,340 in a stocks  and shares ISA and £4,660 
in (say) a collective investment.
So, in my view,  the original loss calculations  made by NatWest were incorrect in several respects and 
didnt suitably  address the issue, as follows:
while  it correctly identified  that Mrs C could have invested £5,340 in an ISA and the remaining  
£4,660 in an alternative  product, the return it calculated  after 10 years at five per cent per 
annum of £7,590.65 was only in respect of the capital  sum of £4,660.  It didnt  calculate the 
return the capital sum of £5,340 would have achieved in an ISA. And, yet, the comparative 
return for the With-Profit bond after 10 years was based on the total amount invested of 
£10,000;
it wasnt appropriate  to apply our established guidance for calculating  the loss of tax benefits  
for Mrs C not utilising her remaining ISA allowance because this guidance assumes she 
invested £5,340 in the same fund of an alternative product and one that paid dividend 
distributions. The With-Profit bond didnt  pay dividend distributions and the With-Profit  fund 
itself wasnt usually  available for a stocks and shares ISA because  the ISA should  invest  in 
risk-based funds  and a With Profit fund doesnt  strictly have a risk-rating;
in any event, no equivalent calculation  was carried out for the tax disadvantages of investing 
£4,660 in the With-Profit bond rather than in (say) a collective investment;
while  I accept it wasnt known at the time, Mrs C has now surrendered her With-Profit bond on 
12 July 2019, and its no longer appropriate to calculate loss over 10 years.
For the same reasons, I dont think the adjudicators  view of NatWests loss assessment was correct 
either.  
At the point of sale in November 2011, the adviser recorded that Mrs C had already fully utilised  her 
cash ISA allowance  of £5,340. Given her total allowance  for tax year 2011/2012 was £10,680, she 
was entitled to invest  a further £5,340 in a stocks and shares ISA. The adviser did note that Mrs C 
had recently  surrendered a stock and shares ISA she previously held because  she was disappointed 
with its fluctuating value at the time. 
However, it was noted that Mrs C also appreciated that, with deposit rates  being so low at the time,  
she did need  to take a cautious degree of risk to ensure her savings at least  retained their value in 
real terms. So, Im satisfied that it was appropriate for her to invest  £10,000 of her savings  in a risk-
based product and, in doing so, to utilise her remaining ISA allowance. 
As Ive mentioned above, while I dont think the choice of a With-Profit bond was inappropriate (and it 
did perform  favourably), she also ought to have considered investing the remaining sum of £4,660 in 
a more  tax-efficient product.
In November 2011, the With-Profit  fund comprised  48 per cent of its assets in equities, 19 per cent in 
property, 27 per cent in corporate bonds, four per cent in gilts and two per cent in cash. So, had this 
Ref: DRN853918410mix of assets existed in a fund held under a collective investment,  for example, this fund would have 
been classed as an equity  fund and income  from it treated as a dividend distribution. 
The first £2,000 dividend income is tax-free and, thereafter, Mrs C, as higher rate taxpayer,  would see 
dividends taxed at 32.5 per cent.  Any capital growth she achieved when surrendering  the investment 
would have been subject  to capital gains  tax (CGT). But, as her CGT allowance in tax year 2019/2020 
was £12,000, and Im given to believe she didnt utilise this allowance in that tax year,  its unlikely she 
would have incurred  a tax liability if she had surrendered the collective  investment in July 2019.  So, a 
collective investment  may have been a more  appropriate product for Mrs C to consider  than the With-
Profit bond, notwithstanding  she was a higher  rate taxpayer, because  the first £2,000 of dividend 
income would have  been  free of tax at 32.5 per cent.
Therefore, my view is that NatWest should  carry out a loss assessment in two parts.
Mrs C surrendered the With-Profit bond  on 12 July 2019 for £14,132.24.  But, as she was a higher rate 
tax payer at the time, she suffered an excess rate tax charge of £826.40 on the overall gain of 
£4,132.24, leaving her a net return of £13,305.84.
Against this return, NatWest should calculate the return Mrs C reasonably  would have obtained  by 
investing £5,340 in a cautious risk-rated fund of a stocks and shares ISA and £4,660 in a collective  
investment that paid a dividend  distribution.
Stocks and shares ISA (£5,340)
I have considered whether  NatWest should simply apply the return  Mrs C received from the With-
Profit bond, proportionate to an original  investment  of £5,340  (and then grossed up by 20 per cent). 
But, as I mentioned above,  as a With-Profit probably wouldnt have been available  for a stocks and 
shares ISA, I dont think applying this return would be appropriate.
I cant  say for sure what ISA fund Mrs C would have chosen in November 2011. But I think its 
reasonable to calculate  the return she would have received on a capital sum of £5,340 from 25 
November 2011 to 12 July 2019 using the benchmark rate represented by 50 per cent FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index and 50 per cent average rate from fixed rate bonds.
NatWest should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the 
previous month. Those rates  should be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded basis.  
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs C wanted capital growth  with a small  risk to her capital;
the average rate for the fixed rate bonds  would be a fair measure for someone who wanted  to 
achieve a reasonable  return without risk to her capital; 
the FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk for a higher return; 
I consider that Mrs Cs risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain  her investment  objectives.  So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mrs C in that position. It does not mean that Mrs C would  have invested 50 per 
cent of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50 per cent in some kind of index  tracker fund. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects  the sort of return  Mrs C 
could have  obtained  from investments suited  to her objective and risk attitude. 
Ref: DRN853918411Collective investment  (£4,660)
NatWest should calculate the return Mrs C could  conceivably have received on £4,660 placed  in a 
collective investment  from 25 November 2011 to 12 July 2019 that paid her a dividend distribution  and 
returned 7.5 per cent per annum, as follows:
£4,660 x two-and-a-half per cent per annum dividend distribution rate (which  wont be subject 
to tax at 32.5 per cent if Mrs C has retained a sufficient amount  of her dividend allowance of 
£2,000) for the period 25 November 2011 to 12 July 2019;
plus
£4,660 x five per cent growth per annum compound  for the period 25 November 2011 to 12 
July 2019.
I note that NatWest offered to reimburse  the excess income tax charge Mrs C incurred when 
surrendering the bond on 12 July 2019. But, for the reasons  given earlier, there is no need to 
reimburse Mrs C this charge as it forms part of the loss calculation by default Ive proposed above.
If the combined value of the ISA and collective  investment at 12 July 2019 is greater than the net 
value of Mrs Cs With-Profit bond of £13,305.84  at that date, NatWest should pay her this difference, 
plus interest on this sum at eight per cent per annum simple from 12 July 2019 to the date of 
settlement. Income  tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
If, alternatively, the combined value of the ISA and collective investment at 12 July 2019 is less than 
the net value of Mrs Cs With-Profit bond of £13,305.84 at that date, no redress is due. 
provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay her redress, if any, based on the calculation methodology  I 
set out above.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8539184