K822xcomplaint
Ms H and Mr R complain  that The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as Smile caused  delay 
when carrying out a money transfer.
background 
Ms H and Mr R were  buying a property  abroad. The purchase was due to complete on 
8 June 2018, so the funds needed  to be with their local lawyers  in time for that. Ms H was 
putting money from her Smile savings account  towards the purchase.
On 4 June, she asked Smile to transfer  £41,148.43 to a currency exchange company, which  
Ill call T. T were going to change the money  into euros and then transfer  it abroad.  Ms H 
says she was told by Smile that the money  would arrive with T by close of business on 
5 June. But the transfer didnt happen until 6 June.  This was because  Smiles fraud 
prevention system put a hold on it pending authorisation from Ms H. Smile say that they sent 
an email to Ms H on 4 June seeking her authority for the money to go out. But Ms H says 
she didnt receive  any email from Smile.
Ms H says she was contacted by T on 6 June, saying  that they hadnt received the money. 
So she called Smile and was told what had happened. She provided the necessary  
information for Smile  to complete the payment over the phone and Smile sent it to T a few 
minutes later. But because there  was no reference attached to the payment, Ms H says it 
was difficult for T to identify it as being her money when it arrived  with them.  She says this 
caused further delay. In the end, the money  arrived with the lawyers on the morning  of 
8 June which was the day set for completion of the purchase.
Ms H complained to Smile. She said that the money  only just arrived in time for her and Mr R 
to complete their house purchase. She said that the delay was caused  by Smile and that it 
made the situation very stressful, particularly as the lawyers only received the money at the 
last minute. She said that, if the money  hadnt  arrived in time for completion, she and Mr R 
would have lost the property as well as a deposit  they had paid on it. She said they could 
also have been  sued. 
Ms H asked Smile  for compensation for the distress  and inconvenience which she and Mr R 
experienced. Smile didnt uphold the complaint  as they didnt think  they had done  anything 
wrong. They said their security checks were very important and that, whilst it was not their 
intention to cause  inconvenience to customers, the checks  were  necessary to prevent fraud.
Ms H wasnt  happy with Smiles response  so she brought  her complaint to this service. Our 
adjudicator thought that the fair outcome would be for Smile to pay compensation of £200 to 
Ms H and Mr R. Smile accepted the adjudicators view, on the basis that they werent able to 
provide a copy of the email which they say they sent to Ms H on 4 June  2018.  But 
Ms H and Mr R didnt  think  £200 was enough to reflect all the trouble and problems which  
they feel were caused by Smile. They would like compensation of £500 and have asked  for 
their complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83327602Its accepted by Smile that they received Ms Hs instructions to make the transfer on 4 June. 
They also accept that the money wasnt transferred to T until 6 June, following completion of 
their security  checks. So what I need  to consider here is whether Smile caused unnecessary 
delay when carrying out Ms Hs transfer  instructions. There  are two parts  to the delay  which 
Ms H complains about: firstly,  the delay in getting the money  to T and, secondly,  the delay in 
it being passed on to the overseas  lawyers. Ill look at each of these in turn.
Firstly, I think it was reasonable for Smile  to carry out security checks  on the transfer. Its 
right that Smile should have security  measures and procedures in place to safeguard  
customers accounts and prevent  fraud  so far as possible. As to exactly  what  those 
procedures are and how they are carried  out, that is a matter for Smile to decide. Its in the 
nature of checks like this that they will sometimes cause individual  customers  some 
inconvenience. But Smile were entitled  to carry out these  checks  and they were following a 
procedure thats  designed to protect customers like Ms H. I note that when Ms H spoke to a 
manager from Smile on 4 June about  making the transfer, he told her that she may be 
contacted by their fraud team.
But I need to consider  whether the way Smile followed  their security procedure  was fair here. 
Smile have explained that their fraud prevention system which checks outbound  payments is 
an automated system.  They say that the automated system cant  dial out to overseas 
numbers. The account records which  Smile  have provided confirm that the phone numbers 
they held for Ms H at the time were  overseas  numbers. So Smile say the automated system 
couldnt contact  Ms H by phone to seek her authorisation. Instead the case was passed to 
the fraud department for manual intervention.
Smile say that their fraud department sent an email to Ms H at that point. The terms and 
conditions of the account say that, in cases  of suspected fraud  or security threats, Smile will 
use the quickest  and most secure way of contacting  a customer.  I think  its reasonable for 
that to cover  email contact. And, as phone contact wasnt  possible  for the reasons  set out 
above, it was reasonable for Smile to use email  here as the method of communication.
But the problem  here is that Ms H says she didnt  receive the email. Its difficult  to know for 
sure what  caused the problem  in a situation like this where the bank says the email was sent 
but the customer says it wasnt received. Ms H says that, when she spoke to a manager 
from Smile  about her complaint on 11 June,  he said there  was no trace of the fraud 
department having sent an email. 
But in Smiles final response letter and their communications with our adjudicator,  they say 
that an email was sent. Their audit log records that an email  was sent at 13.25pm on 4 June. 
And when  our adjudicator asked them what address that email  was sent to, they were able 
to tell her the address, which is Ms Hs correct email address. However, Smile have also 
said that they arent able to provide a copy of the email, which is why they agreed to our 
adjudicators recommendation of £200 compensation.
Having considered all the evidence on this point, I think its likely that Smile did send an 
email to Ms H on 4 June.  But unfortunately that email didnt arrive.
 
As to the timings, Ms H knew that the payment might not arrive with T until close of business  
on 5 June. So realistically, the earliest  she could have checked that it had gone through  or 
chased up (in the absence of hearing  anything) was first thing on 6 June. 
Ref: DRN83327603She says she was contacted by T on 6 June to tell her the money hadnt arrived. So she 
contacted Smile at 11.39am  to ask what had happened. Smiles records  show that the 
transfer was approved at 11.47am and the money was sent within  minutes of that. She says 
that Smile  told her it would arrive  within a couple of hours. 
It seems  that the money did arrive with T within that timescale because  at 1.59pm, Ms H 
contacted Smile again to say that T needed proof  that the money came from her account. 
So, although  Smile had said the money  would  reach  T by close of business on 5 June, it 
actually arrived some time before 2.00pm on 6 June. In practical terms, this amounts to a 
delay of a few hours as realistically its unlikely  anything would have happened overnight.
This delay  was caused by Smiles  security checks because  it was the request for Ms Hs 
authorisation which held things up. Although, as I have explained above, I think  it was 
reasonable for Smile  to use email to contact Ms H and I find it more likely than not that an 
email was sent, I think that in the circumstances  Smile should have done more  here.  
Smile knew that Ms H wanted the transfer to happen because  she had asked them  to do it. 
The call recording of Ms Hs initial instruction isnt available, so I cant  say whether Smile 
were aware of the reason  for the transfer and associated timescales. But in any event a 
manager had been involved in speaking to Ms H to approve the transfer  and had told her it 
would happen  by close of business on 5 June at the latest. So I think Smile should have tried 
to follow  it up when  they didnt receive  a reply to the fraud teams email.  If they had followed 
it up, its likely that some  time would have been saved. As soon as Ms H knew  that Smile 
needed extra information before they could complete  the payment, she gave it. So I agree 
with our adjudicator  that Smile should  compensate Ms H for this part of the delay.
Turning to the second part of the delay, Ms H says that by not including a reference on the 
transfer, Smile made  it difficult for T to link the funds  to her and Mr R. She says that this took 
up more time, delaying the transfer of the money to her lawyers.  Ive considered everything 
Ms H has said on this point, but I dont  think any delay after the funds arrived with T was 
Smiles fault. Ill explain why below.
As Ive said above,  the available information indicates that the money was with T by 2.00pm 
on 6 June. I havent seen anything which explains why it didnt arrive with Ms Hs lawyer  until 
8 June. But Smile cant be responsible for any delays on Ts part in sending  it on. Ms H says 
that, if Smile  had included  a reference, it would  have been easier for T to identify the funds  
as belonging to her. That may well have been  the case, but I havent  seen any evidence  that 
Smile are at fault here.
Smile have explained that they cant add a reference to a transfer from a savings account. If 
a customer wants to include a reference,  their usual  advice  is to transfer the funds to a 
current account first. At that point, a reference can be added and the onward transfer made. 
The transfer to T was direct from Ms Hs savings account.
Smile have provided details of the process their advisers follow when  making a transfer.  This 
includes an instruction  to ask the customer whether a reference is required on the 
transaction. As the call recording isnt available, I dont know  whether or not Ms H asked  for 
a reference to be included. If the adviser  had followed the script, the question would have 
been asked. 
So if the answer had been yes (or if this had been requested even without  the question  
being asked), the adviser would have  needed to explain  to Ms H that this wasnt possible 
Ref: DRN83327604from a savings account. And even if the adviser  hadnt known that to be the case  (which 
would be contrary to the information  Ive seen),  she wouldnt have been able to carry out the 
instruction and add a reference. So the discussion about it not being possible would 
presumably have come up at that stage of the conversation  if not before. So for these 
reasons, I find it unlikely that Ms H had specifically requested  a reference and/or been told 
that one would be included.
Ive also read the webchat between Ms H and Smile  at around 2.00pm  on 6 June. Based on 
that, it sounds as though Ts concern was to do with proof of where  the funds had come 
from, rather than being unable to identify that they had arrived. And Ms H doesnt say in the 
webchat that she had asked for a reference to be included. 
So I havent seen  anything which confirms that Ms H asked  for a reference to be included.  
And, for the reasons set out above, it wouldnt have been possible for Smile  to include one 
anyway. So I dont  think Smile did anything wrong  by not including a reference and I dont 
think theyre responsible  for any delay after the funds  arrived with T.
The only delay Smile caused  was at the first stage, in not following up the email when they 
didnt get a response. I think they could have done  more there, so I agree with our 
adjudicator that they should  pay compensation to Ms H and Mr R. I also agree that £200 
would be a fair amount and Ill explain why. 
Its very difficult  to put a monetary value on inconvenience of this type. And, as I said above, 
the nature  of a bank having  security measures in place is that they will sometimes  cause 
some inconvenience  to customers even though that isnt the aim. Different customers  will 
also experience  different  levels  of stress  and upset when faced with the same situation.  
But in reaching my decision here Ive balanced the fact that Smile were following their 
security procedures with the fact that the circumstances  here made the situation very 
stressful for Ms H and Mr R. The fact that they were facing  an important and immovable 
deadline added to this. But I cant ask Smile to pay compensation  for something which  might  
have happened. Ms H has said that, if the money  hadnt arrived with her lawyers in time, she 
might have lost the property and deposit.  But that didnt  happen  so its not a loss which 
Smile need to compensate her for.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and if it has not already  done so, The Co-operative  Bank Plc must 
now make  a total payment of £200  to Ms H and Mr R as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8332760