K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Legal  & General Partnership Services Limited (L&G) mis-sold him a 
mortgage. 
background
In 2007 Mr M spoke to L&G about his mortgage as his existing fixed rate was coming to an 
end. He was advised to remortgage to a new lender,  and to consolidate a personal loan and 
credit card onto the mortgage. The adviser also sold Mr M a will package.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. He said L&Gs offer to redress  the sale 
of the will package was fair, but that the adviser also shouldnt  have recommended  that the 
loan be consolidated. As L&G didnt  agree  its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Theres an element of this recommendation that L&G has already accepted  wasnt suitable; 
the sale of a will package. So I wont be considering the merits of that here in this decision. 
Suffice to say L&G has already offered to compensate Mr M in line with our normal  redress  
for that. 
L&G has said that Mr Ms objective was to increase his disposable income (it also said in its 
response to our adjudicator that he wanted to raise  funds  for home  improvements  but I cant 
see thats the case and can only assume it was an error by the L&G case  handler).  It said 
that need was meet  by consolidating the debts onto the mortgage.  Whilst I understand the 
point L&G is making,  Im not persuaded by it.
Firstly the advice given  was flawed as the adviser recorded  on the fact find that the loan had 
an interest rate of 6% and the credit card had an interest rate of 5.8%,  with the new 
mortgage being fixed at 6.19%. So the advisor  misled Mr M as he wrote on his record of 
suitability From the information you have provided, I have been able to determine that 
although the interest rate charged will be lower,  the overall cost of repaying these liabilities is 
likely to increase as the term is longer. This wasnt true as by consolidating the debts, the 
interest rate charged became higher.
In any event an immediate aim to increase  his disposable income could have  been  met just 
by Mr M consolidating his credit card (which  with a £3,000 balance  and a monthly payment 
of £152 was some way off being  repaid).  Mr M didnt also need to consolidate  his loan which  
less than six months left to run (and was affordable by L&Gs calculations until then).  
If the loan had been left alone  then it would  have been repaid in full less than four months 
after this mortgage  completed,  thus freeing up the £210 a month Mr M was paying towards 
that without causing him any affordability issues in the intervening period. I dont think  it was 
wrong for the credit  card to be consolidated  as it was some way off being repaid in full, so to 
consolidate it meant Mr M met his aim of increasing  his disposable  income. But I dont think  
the loan should have  been consolidated due to the fact it had such  a short term remaining 
until it was repaid in full.
Ref: DRN85521542L&G has said all this was explained  to Mr M and he chose to proceed,  but this was an 
advised sale so it was the advisers responsibility to recommend the best course of action for 
Mr M, not just give him information and let him decide. Having considered everything I dont 
think the consolidation of the loan was in Mr Ms best interests so Im satisfied the adviser  
should have recommended  that Mr M didnt take that action.
redress
Itll be impossible to put Mr M back in the exact  position he would have been in had the loan 
not been consolidated, but Im satisfied this redress will be as close as we can get. L&G 
should pay redress for the consolidated  loan by;
ocalculating the amount  Mr M has paid, in interest and capital repayments, to that 
part of his mortgage balance to date;
ocalculating the amount  of the loan still outstanding as part of his mortgage 
balance;
ocalculating the amount  it would have cost Mr M to pay the loan back  had it not 
been consolidated; and
oadding together  the first two figures,  deducting the third and paying the result  as 
a lump sum.
As L&G has already  offered to settle  the issue relating to the will package in line with our 
normal redress Ill only reiterate here that is a refund of the mortgage  interest  on the will 
package fee for the duration  of the mortgage  term, calculated at the fixed  rate followed by 
the SVR, plus £150  compensation.
my decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  Legal  & General  Partnership Services  Limited  to pay 
redress to Mr M in line with the redress section  above. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8552154