K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) was irresponsible  to lend 
to him.
background
Mr Lender provided loans to Mr R between September 2017 and September  2018.  Heres a 
table showing loan details:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 07/09/2017 21/12/2017 3 £240.00 £118.40 1
2 21/12/2017 09/05/2018 3 £250.00 £139.33 2
3 09/05/2018 05/07/2018 3 £300.00 £157.60 1
4 09/07/2018 20/09/2018 3 £200.00 £103.46 1
5 20/09/2018 23/09/2018 3 £330.00 £202.40 0
Mr R told us that these loans had a snowball effect and he was going round in circles having 
to borrow money to pay his loans.
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint. She thought there  wasnt enough to say it was 
unfair for Mr Lender to provide loans 1-3, but that loans 4 and 5 shouldnt have been lent. 
Our adjudicator said that by loan 4, she felt Mr Rs overall pattern of borrowing suggested he 
had become persistently reliant on short-term  loans.
Mr Lender partly disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that three loans of 
this type in a row wasnt enough  to suggest that Mr R was struggling to meet his 
repayments. Additionally,  Mr Lender  said Mr R repaid his previous loans on time without any 
sign of financial difficulty  and all the reasons hed given for taking out these loans indicated 
he was borrowing for temporary one-off situations. 
So Mr Lender wasnt prepared to follow the adjudicators recommendation to put things right 
for Mr R in relation to loan 4. But it did offer to refund loan 5 in line with the adjudicators 
recommendation. 
Mr R didn't feel that offer went far enough to put things right. So as no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint  came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision.  
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr Lender  needed to take steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out reasonable checks to make sure Mr R could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable. 
Ref: DRN86107112But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr R could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties and 
in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
I think the adjudicator  was right to uphold the loans she did  but Im also thinking  about 
upholding Mr Rs complaint about loan 3 as well. Ill explain  how I've reached my provisional 
decision.
There doesnt seem to be any ongoing  disagreement about loans 1-2  so I don't think 
I need to say anything in detail about those loans.  It was early in the lending  relationship and 
I think the checks Mr Lender described were  enough for it to agree  to provide these loans to 
Mr R. 
But I think that by loan 3, there were clear signs that Mr R was having problems managing 
his money. Heres why I say this:
Ref: DRN86107113when Mr R applied for loan 3, I think Mr Lender  shouldve taken into account that he 
had a track record of deferring making  his contractual loan repayments on the dates  
hed agreed when he took out the borrowing.  He did this once on loan 1  and 
I accept that this alone doesnt  necessarily show that Mr R was having repayment 
problems  possibly  he just needed some  extra flexibility that month. But he then 
deferred his repayments twice on loan 2 - and he was now asking Mr Lender for loan 
3 the same day that hed repaid loan 2. Ive also noted that hed taken out loan 2 the 
same day he repaid loan 1 
I think this borrowing and payment record shouldve alerted Mr Lender to the 
possibility that Mr R was having problems making his agreed repayments on time  
and it looked like he might be finding it hard to manage after hed paid loans  1 and 
loan 2 without  taking out further  borrowing
this is borne out by other  information  I think Mr Lender wouldve seen. I say this 
because Mr Lender told us that before agreeing loan 3 it looked at Mr Rs bank 
statements to verify  his income  and employment. And whilst I dont know  exactly 
which bank statements Mr Lender  saw Ive also had the benefit of being able to see 
some of Mr Rs bank  statements from around  the time he took out loan 3 
I think Mr Lender wouldve seen (as I have) that Mr R had been  persistently 
overdrawn at the bank for some time
and in the run up to asking Mr Lender for loan 3, Mr R already had a record of 
borrowing with multiple other  short term lenders  and what look like outstanding 
short term loans with at least three  other lenders when he applied for loan 3. So 
I think Mr Lender shouldve  realised  that what Mr R had told Mr Lender about his 
finances was clearly at odds with information that showed  he was actually in serious 
financial difficulty.
So I dont  think Mr Lender shouldve  provided  loan 3 to Mr R.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders  lending history with Mr R, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Rs case, I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 4. I say this because:
Mr R wasnt  managing  to repay  his loans sustainably.  By now, except for a four day 
period just before loan 4 started,  Mr R had been  indebted to Mr Lender continuously 
for around 10 months  in a row. I think this demonstrates that hed become reliant  on 
this sort of expensive  credit 
by loan 4 it was evident  that Mr R wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he 
owed. Whilst loan 4 was the smallest  loan hed taken out, it was still a substantial 
amount of money. I dont think Mr Lender  couldve reasonably  assumed that 
borrowing slightly less showed that Mr Rs financial circumstances  had significantly 
improved. Rather,  to my mind  it shows a pattern of dependency  was apparent in 
respect of his borrowing. And I think thats  borne out by the fact that loan 5 was the 
biggest loan he took out 
Ref: DRN86107114Mr Lender  ought to have realised  it was likely  that Mr R was borrowing  further  to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances each time and 
that Mr Rs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.  
So I dont  think it was reasonable  for Mr Lender  to conclude that it was likely Mr R would be 
able to repay loan 4 in a sustainable manner.  Mr Lender shouldve  realised that this loan, 
and any further  lending, was likely to be unaffordable for Mr R  despite  the reasons  Mr R 
told Mr Lender  he was borrowing when  he applied for loans. 
I think that Mr R lost out when Mr Lender  provided loans 4 and 5 because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time 
the length of time over which Mr R borrowed these loans was likely to have negative 
implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for high-cost  loans 
any further borrowing  was likely  to be detrimental to his credit rating.
So Im planning  on upholding  the complaint about  all the loans  from (and including) loan 3 
onwards.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr R said he agreed with what Id put in my provisional decision and he didnt have anything 
further to add.
Mr Lender responded  and mentioned  the following main points it wanted  me to assess 
further:
on loan 3, three deferral payments over two loans is within regulatory guidelines and 
not an indicator  of financial difficulty  
although Mr R did opt make deferral payments, all repayments were  made  on time 
without any sign of hardship 
Mr R explained why he needed loan 3 - the reason given was a temporary  one-off 
situation which is line with the purpose  of the product
results of the affordability  assessment showed that even after the highest repayment 
hed be left with a sufficient amount remaining in his disposable income, in case  of 
any unexpected  bills, margin  of error  or over exaggeration
Mr R was in employment  and receiving a regular  salary
checks carried out were proportionate  to the loan amount and the results of the 
checks showed no reason carry out any further  assessments  
Mr Lender  assessed expenditure prior to approving loan four - this included asking 
about other loans  (including short term loans)   Mr R advised  he was repaying 
£320.00 in total 
Mr R said there  was no future  upcoming  changes within the next six months that 
would affect repayment or his circumstances
there was no sign of reliance on other short-term loans prior to approving this loan
Ref: DRN86107115Mr Lender  doesnt believe that the loan amount dropping between  loans 3 - 4 was 
considered
further assessments were also carried out prior to approving the fourth  loan
by loan 4 the pattern of lending  hadnt  reached  the point where Mr Lender ought to 
have realised it wasnt appropriate to continue to lend. The information provided by 
Mr R alongside his previous payment history gave Mr Lender no cause  for concern 
when issuing this loan 
the checks carried out were proportionate to the loan amount and the results of the 
checks carried out showed no evidence of financial difficulty
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision. Mr Lender  hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think 
about this case.  Id already considered all the main  points  mentioned  above when thinking  
about my provisional  decision  and addressed  all the points  mentioned  which had a bearing 
on the outcome.  I appreciate that Mr Lender  takes a different view to me. I hope  that setting 
things out as Ive done  helps explain how Ive come to my view.
I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained more fully in my 
provisional decision.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  should do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr R towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 3, 4 and 5, not including anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr R which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date he originally made the payments, 
to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Pay Mr R the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D.Remove all adverse information about  loan 3.
E.The number of loans  taken from loan 4 means  any information recorded  about them  
is adverse. So all entries about  loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr Rs credit 
file.
*HMRC requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. If Mr R asks Mr Lender for a 
certificate showing how much tax has been  taken off, Mr Lender should provide this. 
Ref: DRN86107116my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to put things 
right for Mr R as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8610711