K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains about the information Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited  
provide on their website.  He says they didnt  inform him of a corporate  action that a 
company, which  he bought  shares  in, had announced.
background
Mr Z purchased shares in a company (the company) through  Hargreaves  Lansdowns online 
trading platform on 23 March 2018.  On the same  day the company announced a corporate 
action. They proposed a share issue to raise additional funds  which included an open 
offer to existing shareholders to subscribe for additional shares. But to qualify, shareholders  
had to hold shares  at the close of business on 21 March  2018.
Mr Z complained to Hargreaves Lansdown saying that, prior to purchasing shares in the 
company, he wasnt informed of the date on which he had to hold the shares to qualify for 
the open offer entitlement. He thought the exclusion  of this on Hargreaves Lansdowns 
website meant the information available to him when he made the trade was incomplete and 
misleading.
Hargreaves Lansdown didnt uphold the complaint. They said information about  the 
companys open  offer was made immediately available  through their website, under a tab 
labelled Company Announcements, when  it was announced on 23 March  2018.  They also 
explained the terms and conditions say it is the clients responsibility  to ensure theyre aware 
of any upcoming corporate  actions and that they dont  make  any claim to provide accurate or 
complete information  at all times. And so, as there wasnt  a delay in updating their website, 
they didnt think  they had caused an error or that the information  they provided  on their 
website was misleading.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator looked in to it but she didnt think  
Hargreaves Lansdown had acted unfairly.  She explained that, under the terms of the 
account, Hargreaves Lansdown werent required to provide advice or notify Mr Z about the 
open offer. But once  they became aware of it they updated their website. So while Mr Z may 
have relied on the information available on Hargreaves Lansdowns website, it was up to him 
check its accuracy and verify  this when making  a decision to trade  particularly given his 
account is execution  only and so any information available on Hargreaves Lansdowns 
website doesnt  constitute a recommendation to buy or sell shares. She thought both the 
terms of the account  and the website was fair, clear and not misleading.
Mr Z disagreed and so the matter has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive read and considered  the whole file, 
but Ill concentrate  my comments  on what I think is relevant. If I dont mention any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think  about  it, but because  I dont 
think I need to comment  on it to reach what I think is the right outcome.
In bringing this complaint to our service Mr Z has also raised  wider  concerns about the 
information Hargreaves Lansdown provide on their website generally. But I think  it would be 
helpful to explain  that its not the role of our service  to tell a financial business  how to 
Ref: DRN80773142operate  as its their commercial discretion as to what services  they want  to provide. Our 
service looks at individual complaints and where  we think a financial business has done  
something wrong, we tell them  how to put things  rights. So Ill be focussing  on what  
happened when  Mr Z bought  the shares  in the company.
The terms of the account say:
It is your responsibility to identify any upcoming  Corporate Actions before purchasing  an 
investment as we will not provide you with any notification at the time you place your 
purchase.
Im therefore  satisfied Hargreaves Lansdown wasnt required to tell Mr Z about the corporate 
action (open offer)  that the company had announced when he bought the shares. But rather, 
it was Mr Zs responsibility to find out such information for himself.
Hargreaves Lansdown did however provide the information on their website immediately 
after it was announced. So it wouldve been  available to Mr Z at the time he bought the 
shares. And, while Hargreaves Lansdown wasnt obligated to notify him of the corporate  
action at the time, I think its reasonable for them provide  such  information on their website 
for their clients.
Mr Z says the information about the open offer wasnt made clear on Hargreaves 
Lansdowns website.  This is because it could  only be found by searching within the relevant 
tab, Company Announcements, which wasnt directly  visible  as the default tab displayed  is 
Company News, which didnt mention the announcement of the open offer. And this is 
unlike the London Stock Exchange website that includes a mention of special conditions 
(when applicable).
Ive carefully considered  this and while I appreciate Mr Z may not have seen the 
announcement of the open offer on Hargreaves Lansdowns website, I dont think theyve 
acted wrongly by providing this information to their clients differently to that of the London 
Stock Exchange. I think  its reasonable for Hargreaves Lansdown to decide how they wish to 
display company information  on their website. 
I would also like to reiterate that, as per the account terms, it was the responsibility  of Mr Z to 
identify any upcoming  corporate actions before he bought the shares.  And I think its 
reasonable for an investor, like Mr Z, to adequately research a company before buying 
shares in it. So while  I appreciate  Mr Z says he relied upon the company information 
available on Hargreaves Lansdowns website,  he couldve used other sources  such as the 
London Stock Exchange  to research this further  before buying the shares.
In any event, and as Ive previously said,  the announcement of the open offer was available  
on Hargreaves Lansdowns  website  albeit Mr Z may not have found it.  But I think 
Hargreaves Lansdown provided this information  on their website  in way that was fair, clear  
and not mis-leading. 
Hargreaves Lansdown also provides the warnings on their website about the information 
they provide. This includes the shares  page, which  says:
Data policy  - All information should be used for indicative purposes only. You 
should independently check data before making any investment decision. HL cannot  
Ref: DRN80773143guarantee that the data is accurate or complete, and accepts  no responsibility for 
how it may be used.
And, on the corporate  actions page,  it says:
CORPORATE ACTIONS DIRECTORY
N.B. This Directory is an aid to provide HL clients with information  regarding 
selected ongoing corporate  action  events. However, it is not a comprehensive list of 
all current Corporate Action events.
I think the above makes  it clear that the information Hargreaves Lansdown provides may not 
be accurate or complete.  And so Im satisfied Mr Z was given sufficient notice to verify  any 
data or information   including whether a corporate action had been announced  before 
investing. Ive noted Mr Zs point  that such warnings shouldnt absolve Hargreaves 
Lansdown of all responsibility, or a duty of care,  to provide clients  with accurate information. 
But I havent seen  anything to show Hargreaves Lansdown provided incorrect information or 
that they mis-led  Mr Z when he bought shares in the company. 
I understand Mr Z is unhappy with whats happened  and the service Hargreaves Lansdown 
offers. He is obviously free to use a different provider if he wishes.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think Hargreaves Lansdown has acted unfairly and so I wont be telling 
them to take any further action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8077314