K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading as Sunny - irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one flexi-credit and five instalment loans Sunny provided to Mr G 
between December 2014 and April 2015. Mr Gs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 05/12/2014 31/12/2014 flexi-credit £750.00
2 03/01/2015 30/01/2015 6 £750.00
3 30/01/2015 13/03/2015 6 £750.00
4 22/03/2015 31/03/2015 6 £750.00
5 31/03/2015 30/04/2015 6 £750.00
6 30/04/2015 04/01/2016 6 £750.00
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Gs complaint and thought  loan 6 shouldnt  have been 
given because the overall pattern of Mr Gs borrowing indicated he was reliant on these 
loans and the borrowing was becoming unsustainable. Sunny  didnt  respond  to the view. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN80388752I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. Having done  so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint  about loans 1 to 5. Mr G hasnt provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for us to consider, so I wont be making any further findings 
on these loans because  they no longer appear  to be in dispute. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr G, with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the circumstances of Mr Gs case, I think that this point was reached at loan 6. I say 
this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have realised Mr G was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr G had taken out six loans in four months.  So, it should have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr G was having  to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying 
his previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Gs indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Gs first loan was for £750  and loan 6 was for the same amount. At this point, Sunny 
ought to have known it was unlikely  that Mr G was borrowing  to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in his income but more to meet an ongoing need. 
Mr G wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  he owed Sunny. Loan 6 was taken 
out nearly five months after Mr Gs first. And it was for a similar amount. Mr G had paid 
large amounts of interest  to, in effect; service  a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr G lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans and the length of time over which  Mr G borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Gs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ref: DRN80388753putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts Sunny should buy these back  if Sunny is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If Sunny cant buy the debts back, then Sunny should 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve  the results outlined  below.
A)Sunny should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards  interest, 
fees and charges  on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding  balance,  not including  
anything Sunny  has already refunded.
B)Sunny should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr G 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C)Sunny should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr G as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr G having made 
overpayments then Sunny  should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have arisen, to 
the date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated  in 
A and B and move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However, if there  is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny  should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G. Sunny shouldnt 
pursue outstanding  balances made  up of principal Sunny has already written-off.
E)The overall pattern  of Mr Gs borrowing  for loans 6 to 9 means any information recorded  
about them is adverse, so Sunny  should remove these loans entirely from Mr Gs credit  
file. Sunny  does  not have to remove any outstanding loans from Mr Gs credit file until 
these have  been repaid, but Sunny should  still remove any adverse information  
recorded about these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Elevate Credit International Limited  to take off tax from this 
interest. Elevate Credit  International  Limited must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Gs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8038875