K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004. Mrs C
says Bank  of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs C bought a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) in 2004.  TMPP can be split into
sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical 
illness cover.  Mrs C complained about  the PPI so Ive looked  at the sale of the PPI cover 
only.
background
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mrs C aware  that the PPI policy was optional  and gain her consent 
before adding the PPI to her mortgage.  There isnt much paperwork available from the sale
of the policy, but from what we know  about how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time I
think its likely Halifax would have presented the PPI as optional and gained  Mrs Cs consent
before adding it to her mortgage. So, I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policy  to Mrs C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for
her. Mrs C has told us she was entitled  to sick pay when she took the PPI, she also had
other savings so she didnt need  it. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to Mrs Cs 
sick pay, and for longer. It would also have  protected Mrs Cs savings so they could be used 
towards any other expenses she may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Cs circumstances  at the time,  she wasnt affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it
was affordable. So, I I think the policy  was right for her, and I dont  think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about what Mrs C has told us about having to re-mortgage later,  and that at that 
time it could  have been brought  to her attention that the policy was optional.  But this hasnt 
made a difference to my findings. As Ive said above, I think Mrs C was made  aware that she 
had a choice to take the policy or not. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN80852722Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2021.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8085272