K821x#15Complaint
Mrs L and Miss M - who are joint signatories on a business account - complain about the 
way Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds)  handled  their request to close the account  and their attempts 
to make payments.
For ease, as Mrs L is the main complainant, Ill mainly refer to her in my decision.
Background
Mrs L has had a business current account and credit card account  with Lloyds for a number 
of years.
In February 2019,  she told Lloyds  she wanted to remove the security attached to the current  
account overdraft.  Lloyds told Mrs L it couldnt remove the charge against property, as the 
business account overdraft was secured by it. Mrs L said she was intending  to re-mortgage 
to clear the debt in full. Lloyds told Mrs L that as the credit  card balance was an unsecured 
debt, it wasnt covered by the security. 
Mrs L instructed a financial adviser  who Ill refer to as LP  the same month, to contact 
Lloyds on her behalf. Lloyds sent LP an overdraft redemption figure and also told Mrs L the 
balance including  accrued charges. Further transactions were debited  from the account  over 
the following  few days.
LP and Lloyds  had several exchanges  during  February 2019. On 20 February,  LP told 
Lloyds Mrs L wanted to close the business account.  Lloyds said it hadnt received 
instructions from Mrs L to close the account and she couldnt  do that until the debt had 
been repaid. 
 
The following  day, LP said it was proving difficult to get a final settlement figure for the 
overdraft, as there were  ongoing transactions on the account. It told Lloyds Mrs L indicated  
the direct  debits had been cancelled and LP thought that was probably the right thing to do -
Lloyds agreed.  LP said it intended to discuss the direct debits with Mrs L.   
In a further email  that day, Lloyds  asked LP whether it also needed a redemption  figure  on 
the credit  card account. LP said a settlement figure  for the overdraft (including daily interest 
and confirmation  that the security charge had been removed) would be enough. 
Lloyds notes suggest the direct debits were cancelled at some point the same day. 
LP contacted Lloyds in early March  2019  to ask about the overdraft redemption figure and 
whether it could rely on the one given  a few weeks before. Lloyds  said it could. LP cleared 
the overdraft balance on Mrs Ls behalf on 6 March. The amount paid reflected the balance  
at that date, including further transactions since February when Lloyds initially confirmed the 
balance. Pending charges were added to the account on 11 March,  which  meant it again 
became overdrawn.
A few days  later Mrs L called Lloyds  to make a credit  card payment. Lloyds notes say it 
discussed payment  options with her and she intended  to call back  the next day. It also noted 
she was planning  to set up a direct  debit. According to Lloyds notes, Mrs L called the next 
day, but theres little detail of the conversation noted. 
Ref: DRN85227322In April 2019, Mrs L contacted Lloyds as she wasnt happy with various aspects of its service  
 in particular,  that further charges were added to the current  account despite her paying  off 
the overdraft in full. The notes indicate Mrs L was still intending to set up a direct debit to pay 
off the credit  card balance. 
Lloyds notes also say Mrs L wasnt working due to ill health and it discussed  her options to 
repay the credit card debt with another team. It appears Mrs L wasnt happy about  what she 
was then told (as Lloyds  initially  suggested she might have to pay back the credit card debt 
within twelve months), and she indicated she wanted to continue paying off the credit card 
debt in instalments  as shed done previously.
Mrs L didnt make credit card payments after February 2019. So, on 31 May 2019, Lloyds 
wrote to her to say that £375  was outstanding  and, unless it was paid by 5 June 2019, it 
would consider defaulting the account. 
Mrs L contacted our service in June 2019 and before Lloyds responded to the complaint. 
Amongst other things she told us Lloyds default letter arrived  after the payment due date. 
Lloyds agreed  for us to investigate the complaint.  Our investigator  looked into three specific  
issues:  
Lloyds didnt tell Mrs L that to close  the business current  account  shed  have to clear 
the credit  card balance first;
Within a short time of clearing the current account overdraft, Lloyds added further 
charges to the account;
Mrs L couldnt pay her business  credit  card,  as Lloyds  refused to take payment other  
than by direct debit from a business account.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He didnt think there had been a mistake on 
Lloyds part. But he felt that even if Lloyds hadnt  clearly explained closing one account was 
dependant on clearing the balance on a linked account, Mrs L would always have  had to 
repay the credit card balance to close the account.  The investigator also felt Lloyds was 
justified in adding  fees and charges in line with the terms  of the account  and said there was 
no evidence Lloyds refused to take credit card payments from Mrs L. He was also satisfied it 
had given her other options to repay her credit card.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators  assessment,  which she thought was based  on 
incorrect information. In particular Mrs L disputes  she was given other options to make  credit 
card payments. She also said theres a history of poor communication  with Lloyds that she 
wanted our service to look into. As Mrs L didnt agree, the complaint  has been passed  to me 
to decide.
My provisional findings  
I sent Mrs L and Lloyds my provisional  decision on 20 August 2020. Ive included  the 
relevant extracts  as an annex to this decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN85227323Mrs L said she thought  my proposed compensation award was fair (albeit minimal) for the 
suffering that occurred.  But shes  given  me other comments and proposals to consider as a 
means of resolving this complaint. Amongst the things Mrs L said:
She doesnt accept  that Lloyds probably  wasnt at fault when she tried to make  
telephone payments  towards her credit  card balance  particularly when it hasnt  
been able to provide evidence such as phone records to support what  happened.  
Mrs L says she finds  this decision baffling and she doesnt  think it stands up to 
scrutiny.
And whilst  Mrs L does  appear to accept  its difficult to say what happened with any 
certainty in the absence of more complete records, shes  asked me to consider  
directing Lloyds to write off the account fees that continued  to accrue whilst her 
complaint has been ongoing. Mrs L thinks that would more likely lead to her 
accepting my final decision.  
My findings
Ive again considered all of the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive thought  carefully about Mrs Ls 
comments. But I see no reason to change my decision. Ill explain why.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that where the evidence is incomplete, I have to reach  
a finding based on whats most likely  to have happened - taking account of the evidence that 
is available. As I wasnt given any call recordings, I had to decide how likely it was that 
Lloyds would refuse to take a credit card payment from Mrs L over the phone.  And, as I 
explained, overall, I wasnt persuaded that was likely. 
As I also said,  Mrs L was bound by the contractual terms of her account  one of which was 
to make payments  on time. So, I found it unlikely that Lloyds would deliberately  refuse to 
accept a payment  - knowing shed be in breach of those conditions  - particularly  when it 
knew the direct debit from which shed previously made  regular payments was no longer in 
place. 
Mrs L has asked me to consider directing Lloyds to write off all of the account fees that 
accrued whilst her complaint has been  ongoing, as a means of resolving her complaint. 
Shes also said that will help towards achieving her ultimate aim of ending the banking 
relationship. Ive thought about what Mrs L has said, but Im not going to ask Lloyds to do 
that. In order to make such a direction,  Id need to be satisfied Lloyds had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in adding the charges to the account. Overall (and subject to what I say 
below), Ive seen no evidence it acted unfairly.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  I didnt direct  Lloyds to write off the charges it added  to 
the account in March  2019 (relating to an earlier period  and which then caused Mrs Ls 
account to go overdrawn) because I was satisfied  those  charges were fairly applied  to the 
account and LP and Mrs L had already been told about them.  Mrs Ls February 2019 
account statement  also made clear theyd be charged in March 2019.  However,  I did say I 
was intending  to instruct Lloyds to write off any charges  or interest  that then became due as 
a direct result of the account  going  overdrawn again in March.  Thats  because  if Lloyds had 
checked the account more carefully,  it could  have reminded LP and Mrs L that earlier 
charges were pending and LP could have included that amount in the overdraft settlement 
figure. And thats  likely  to have stopped the account from going overdrawn.  But Lloyds didnt 
do that, so Im satisfied  it should refund any associated  interest  and charges now.
Ref: DRN85227324My final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Lloyds  Bank plc to:
pay Mrs L and Miss M a total of £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its failure  to check the overdraft settlement figure before 
confirming LP could  rely on a previous figure given.
refund  any additional  charges and interest that became due as a result  of Mrs Ls 
account again going overdrawn in mid-March  2019  when the pending charges were 
added.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020. 
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85227325Provisional findings sent on 20 August 2020
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of some of the personal  difficulties  Mrs L has faced  and that she feels  theres  been a 
history of poor communication on Lloyds  part. I should  make clear though,  my role is not to conduct a 
general review  of all of the interactions between Mrs L and Lloyds  over many years. Its to decide  
whether Lloyds did anything wrong in terms of the specific complaint Mrs L brought  to us.   
Ive set out below, in detail, how Ive reached my provisional decision.   
Lloyds didnt  tell Mrs L that to close the business current  account shed  have to clear the 
credit card balance first.
From the comments Mrs L made to our investigator, its clear to me that her ultimate aim was to end 
her banking  relationship with Lloyds. Yet when arranging for LP to settle the current  account  
overdraft, Mrs L didnt  also arrange  to repay the credit card balance at the same time. So, it seems 
likely to me shed have  known  she couldnt fully end the relationship until that debt had been repaid 
too.
But its possible Mrs L thought closing  the current account was one step closer  to ending the banking  
relationship. And she complains Lloyds didnt make  it clear enough that she couldnt  close the current  
account until the debt on the credit card account had been  repaid.  
I think  the question for me to consider here is whether it should have  been clear  to Lloyds that Mrs L 
wanted to close her account  and whether it gave clear and helpful information about how she might 
go about it. 
The terms  and conditions attached  to a Lloyds business credit card account say that in order to be 
eligible, the customer must  have  a business current account. Thats  because Lloyds doesnt offer 
business credit cards  as a standalone product. And the current  account  must remain open during the 
course of the credit agreement for the customer to continue using and benefiting from the credit  
facility. So, I think Mrs L is likely to have  known  when she opened  the account that there was a clear 
relationship between  her two accounts.  But I wouldnt necessarily expect  Mrs L to remember those 
terms in detail  - particularly  as she appears to have opened the account some years earlier.
Lloyds hasnt been able to send me any call recordings  with Mrs L or LP. So, I cant say for certain 
what was discussed and what  advice  Lloyds gave. Where the evidence is incomplete  - as it is here - I 
need to decide whats most likely to have happened. 
From the notes Ive seen,  I dont think it would  have been clear to Lloyds initially that Mrs L  was 
hoping to close the business  account. I say that because the early conversations in February  2019 
appear to relate  mainly  to clearing the current account overdraft balance - the main aim of which  
appears to have been  for Mrs L to release  the security that was attached to that account.  As Mrs L 
had the overdraft  secured against property, I can see why it might have been important to her to have  
that security released.  And, as clearing  an overdraft doesnt  in itself mean a customer  wants  to close 
an account,  I dont think that would have been a signal  to Lloyds either. 
But I can also see that later in February 2019 - and before the overdraft was cleared  LP did tell 
Lloyds Mrs L was hoping to close the account.  So, Ive thought about whether Lloyds did enough  at 
this stage. I can see Lloyds told LP Mrs L couldnt close  the account  until the debt had been cleared 
and it had specific  instructions from Mrs L. 
Lloyds doesnt appear to have stipulated initially that the debt being  cleared, included the credit card 
balance. But I can see it did ask LP in February whether Mrs L also wanted a redemption  figure  for 
the credit card. As Lloyds  knew by that point Mrs Ls intention was to close the account,  it seems 
Ref: DRN85227326reasonable to assume thats why it asked LP if it wanted a redemption figure, so LP could  include that 
in Mrs Ls finance arrangement if necessary.  But LP confirmed it only wanted a redemption figure for 
the overdraft.  And Lloyds  didnt  receive  any further instructions from Mrs L about  closing  the account.
Mrs L says shed have taken different  action to restructure  her debts if shed had clear advice from 
Lloyds. I can appreciate her position, especially  as she appears to have restructured other debts  
around the same  time.  
And whilst  Lloyds could perhaps have been a bit clearer  initially about what it meant by the debt 
being cleared, I dont  think  that means its done something  wrong. Im satisfied Lloyds  asked LP if Mrs 
L wanted a redemption figure for the credit card and it told LP Mrs L would  have to give specific 
instructions about closing the account. So, on balance, Im satisfied, Lloyds  gave LP - on Mrs Ls 
behalf  enough information  to indicate what she had to do to close her account.  But Lloyds didnt 
receive any further instructions from Mrs L about the credit card debt or closing the account. 
For those  reasons, whilst no doubt disappointing for Mrs L, I dont think  Lloyds did anything wrong,  so 
Im not intending to ask Lloyds to do anything more. 
Within a short time of clearing the overdraft, Lloyds added further  charges  to the account. 
Lloyds sent LP an indicative  settlement figure for the overdraft in February 2019. It also told Mrs L 
there were pending charges  on the account and that the figure  was subject to change if there were 
further transactions on the account.  Early the following month, LP called Lloyds to ask whether  it 
could still rely on the figure given a few weeks before, as it was in the process  of finalising the 
payment. Lloyds said it could.   
Its a pity Lloyds doesnt appear to have checked its systems before responding to this question. Had 
it done so, it could  have told LP (as it told Mrs L in February) there were  pending charges on the 
account for an earlier period. Whilst LP thought it settled the outstanding  balance in full - including 
further transactions since February - the amount  paid doesnt appear to include the pending charges 
Lloyds mentioned earlier.  So, I can appreciate why Mrs L was concerned  to find further charges being 
added within a very short  time of her settling the overdraft balance in full. 
Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to add the charges  in line with the terms of the account and that it told 
Mrs L about  them  on an earlier statement and when she called in February. For that reason, Im not 
asking Lloyds to refund the charges. However,  I dont  think it was fair or reasonable for Lloyds not to 
have checked the final balance before confirming  the total amount of debt to LP. 
I say that because LP was proactive in trying to ensure the settlement figure  included everything that 
was due. And had LP known further  charges would be added in a few days  time, I think  its likely it 
would have increased the amount it paid Lloyds  to settle the account  in full. But Lloyds failure to 
check the amount  due (including any pending charges) meant there was a shortfall - and Mrs L again  
found her account overdrawn only days after she thought shed settled  her overdraft in full. And I can 
appreciate from what Mrs L said,  that caused her a fair amount of distress  and inconvenience. 
But it also meant  extra  charges and interest became due because  Mrs Ls account  was overdrawn for 
longer than was expected. To put things right now, Im intending to direct Lloyds to pay Mrs L and 
Miss M compensation  of £150 (in total) to reflect the distress  and inconvenience  its handling of this 
matter caused. And it should also refund any additional charges and interest that became  due as a 
result of Mrs Ls account  again becoming overdrawn when the pending charges  were added  in mid-
March. 
Mrs L couldnt pay her business credit card, as Lloyds refused  to take payment other than by 
direct debit from  a business account. 
Ref: DRN85227327In her response to our investigator, Mrs L said whilst a payment gateway has now been set up, 
Lloyds denied  her this option from March 2019. She said this led to charges and interest being added 
to the account despite her attempts to pay regularly and on time. 
Again, Lloyds  and Mrs Ls accounts of what happened appear  to conflict.  So, Ive thought  about  
whats most likely to have happened based on the evidence Ive seen.  
Lloyds said it would have  cancelled Mrs Ls direct debits based on her instructions. But Mrs L says 
she didnt know the direct debits would be cancelled without  notice.  And Mrs L says when she found  
out about  the cancelled  direct debits, she tried to make payments by other means to avoid further 
charges, but Lloyds wouldnt  accept them.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think its likely Mrs L did know the direct debits had been 
cancelled some  time in February. I say that because Ive seen emails between LP and Lloyds in 
which they discuss the overdraft settlement  figure. And as it was proving difficult  to get an accurate 
figure due to the continuous debits and credits  affecting the balance, LP indicated to Lloyds that Mrs L 
might already have cancelled the direct debits. LP and Lloyds agreed that was probably the right thing 
to do, to stop the balance fluctuating and LP said it would discuss the position  with Mrs L. And I can 
see the direct debits appear to have been cancelled  around the same time. 
Whilst the evidence is less clear about exactly what LP discussed with Mrs L  and that might  account 
for why she says she didnt know about the direct debits being  cancelled - Im still persuaded  overall 
that she knew  about  it. I say that because when Mrs L contacted  Lloyds in March about making a 
credit card payment, the evidence suggests she was intending to set up a direct debit.  That wouldnt 
have been necessary if Mrs L thought the original direct debit was still in place.  
Ive thought about Mrs Ls complaint that Lloyds wouldnt accept a payment by anything  other than a 
direct debit from a business account. I can see Mrs L called  Lloyds in March  and said she wanted to 
make a credit card payment. According to Lloyds notes, it discussed options with Mrs L and, as the 
relevant team wasnt available, Mrs L intended to call Lloyds again  the following  day. Some  of this 
detail accords  with Mrs Ls account although  it seems  she was expecting Lloyds to call her about the 
credit card payment.
Its not possible  to say exactly what Mrs L and Lloyds  discussed  the next day based on the evidence 
Ive seen. Whatever happened  Ive seen no evidence to suggest  payments were made  after about 
February 2019.  Its also not clear to me why a direct debit wasnt set up, given thats what Mrs L 
intended to do. But, on balance, I find it unlikely Lloyds would refuse to accept  payments pending a 
direct debit being in place. 
I say that because when a bank agrees a credit account with a customer, it does so on the basis the 
customer meets certain contractual obligations  including making payments on time. So, it seems 
unlikely to me Lloyds would refuse to accept a payment knowing  Mrs L was likely  to breach the 
account conditions  - particularly as that could  lead to enforcement action.  
And whilst  its possible Lloyds might  have  indicated its preference  was for Mrs L to set up a direct 
debit from a business  account  which  Mrs L appears intent on doing  at some point anyway - I dont 
think thats the same  as refusing to take a payment from her. I also think its less likely Lloyds would 
have agreed  to cancel the original direct debit for the credit  card payments,  if it knew it wouldnt be 
willing to accept payments by other means. 
I appreciate Mrs L has many  concerns about Lloyds and its handling of things. But from the evidence  
Ive seen, it appears she didnt make credit card payments  after about  February  2019.  When  
payments are missed,  banks are expected to contact the customer about  that and tell them what  they 
need to do to catch up. And if payments continue to be outstanding after about three months,  they 
can consider  taking more  formal action, including defaulting the account, which can have a longer-
term impact on a customers credit file.
Ref: DRN85227328Lloyds hasnt provided evidence  of other contact it made with Mrs L before  May 2019.  But Im 
satisfied she knew payments were due because she told Lloyds in March and April 2019 that she was 
intending to set up a direct  debit  to make  them. And, as no payments were  received for about three 
months, Im satisfied Lloyds was entitled to write  to Mrs L in the terms it did at the end of May 2019. I 
also think it was entitled  to add interest and charges to the account in line with its terms and 
conditions.
For the reasons  Ive given, Im minded to partially uphold this complaint  and direct  
Lloyds Bank  Plc to:
pay Mrs L and Miss M a total of £150 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by its failure to check the overdraft settlement figure before confirming LP could rely 
on a previous figure given.
refund any additional charges and interest that became  due as a result of Mrs Ls account  
again going overdrawn in mid-March when the pending charges were  added.
Ref: DRN8522732