K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains as director  of a limited company D, that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) 
incorrectly changed the company account  to a sole trader account and have not transferred 
the overdraft when correcting it back to a limited company account.
background
D had a business bank account  with HSBC. In 2011 Mr G says he contacted  HSBC  as one 
of the directors of D had resigned and he wished to remove him from Ds business  account. 
Mr G says that HSBC instead  opened a new account for him which  he had sole access  to. 
This account was opened as a sole trader account.
In early 2018 Mr G increased the overdraft facility on the sole trader account to £12,500.  
Shortly after this HSBC  completed safeguarding checks with Mr G. HSBC identified that the 
sole trader account was being used by D. HSBC said that they needed  to close  the sole 
trader account and asked Mr G to use the original  business account in Ds name.
HSBC told Mr G that he needed to repay the overdraft of the sole trader account  before its 
closure.
Mr G visited a HSBC branch where  he applied for a £12,500 overdraft on Ds business  
account to match his existing borrowing on the sole trader account. The application  was 
reviewed and rejected  by the underwriters. HSBC said they would offer D a £2,000 overdraft.
Mr G complained to HSBC on Ds behalf as he felt it was HSBCs  error which  led to the 
account having to be changed. He also wanted  to transfer the overdraft from one account to 
the other.  In response, HSBC said that Mr G was unable to retain  a sole trader account as 
his business was a limited  company.  They also said that legally a limited  company is a 
separate entity to him as a sole trader and so they could not simply transfer his lending  
facilities. They therefore had to consider Ds application for lending on its own merits, but it 
did not meet  the required criteria. 
Mr G was unhappy with HSBCs response  and so brought  his complaint to our service.  
I sent HSBC and Mr G my provisional  decision on 16 January 2020. I explained that I 
thought HSBC had made  some mistakes but that they didnt need  to do anything  more to 
compensate D. Ive copied my findings  from my provisional decision below.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN87767002Im considering upholding part of Ds complaint. In particular  that HSBC  made  an error in 
opening the sole trader account in 2011.  Ill explain why.
HSBC have said that Mr G asked for a sole trader account to be opened.  However, Mr G 
says that he was unaware that the account was opened as a sole trader. Where the 
evidence is incomplete  or conflicting, I need  to decide whats most  likely to have happened. 
Companies house confirms that one of the directors of D resigned  in late 2011. So, it 
appears reasonable that Mr G would call HSBC to have him removed from Ds business  
account as he said. The sole trader account  was used solely  for Ds business  over several 
years. HSBC have  not provided adequate information to show Mr G was told or was aware 
that this was a sole trader  account or that he indeed asked for it to be.
This is further evidenced in the internal memo on the opening  of the sole trader account  
where it refers to a chip and pin machine  being transferred from Ds old account to Mr Gs 
new account. In addition, the funds  were transferred from Ds account to Mr Gs showing the 
account was being used  for the same business  as before. Therefore, I think it is more  likely 
that Mr G did not ask HSBC to set up a sole trader account. 
However, on noticing the error HSBC have  immediately  corrected  it. HSBC  allowed D to use 
its old account to continue banking. There do not appear to have been any delays or 
additional costs  to D. So, I dont think HSBC need to do anything more.  
Whilst I appreciate that Mr G wanted the overdraft transferred from one account to the other, 
I can also see why HSBC  said the overdraft couldnt  just be transferred. The overdraft given 
on Mr Gs sole trader account had been  done so on that basis,  that his own personal 
circumstances and credit history could be used  to decide his lending. When HSBC corrected 
the account, they had to re-consider their lending against D, a limited  company which  is a 
separate entity. HSBC said D presented a different risk compared to Mr G in his personal 
capacity and therefore it chose to decline the overdraft based on the information  they had 
about D. This is a decision HSBC  is entitled  to make  and therefore, I cannot  say that HSBC 
were wrong not to transfer or give D the overdraft  it applied  for. 
This complaint has been brought to us by Mr G on behalf of D. As we have already 
established, D is a separate  entity  to Mr G as an individual.  So, I have thought carefully  
about whether  HSBCs error in opening a sole trader  account  in 2011 has led to any financial 
loss to D. As the overdraft was approved for Mr G in his personal capacity, D hasnt taken on 
any financial  liability with HSBC. It in fact had the advantage of being able to purchase stock  
with the overdraft which it will have  the benefit of selling. At this time, I have not seen any 
evidence that HSBCs  error has resulted in a financial loss or any material inconvenience  to 
D. So, I cant say that HSBC need to do anything more. 
Mr G says hes unhappy with the way that HSBC dealt with the removal  of the overdraft from 
the sole trader account. But as the sole trader account didnt belong to D, it isnt something I 
can consider as part of this complaint.  If Mr G has had any personal financial loss, he may 
wish to bring his own complaint.
Ref: DRN87767003the response to my provisional  decision
HSBC havent  made  any further comments.
Mr G says that HSBC did not immediately correct their error, as it took them several  years  to 
notice the account was set up wrong. Mr G also says he cant  understand why HSBC would 
not increase Ds current overdraft as D had always used the account well and the business 
was growing. 
Mr G re-iterated the personal  impact of removing the overdraft from the sole trader account.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in light of Mr Gs response to it. But it hasnt changed my mind, Ill explain why.
Mr G says that the error wasnt immediately corrected by HSBC  as it took them  several 
years to notice the account had been  set up incorrectly. I agree with Mr Gs comment, that 
the account was being  used for several  years before  HSBC realised the business was a 
limited company. Whilst I agree that HSBC could have realised this mistake earlier, there is 
no evidence that they did realise  until the safeguarding checks  were completed.  Once the 
error was found  HSBC  acted to correct the account type from a sole trader account to a 
limited company which was reasonable. 
I can see why Mr G thinks that HSBC should increase Ds overdraft however as I said in my 
provisional decision, HSBC made this decision on assessing the risk D presented. HSBC are 
entitled to make a business decision on its lending. So, I cant  say it was wrong not to lend 
this money to D.
And as I have said in my provisional decision, I cannot consider the impact  on Mr G of 
removing the overdraft from the sole trader account  within this complaint  because the 
complainant is from D  not Mr G. 
For these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional  findings,  Im not persuaded to 
change my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I partly uphold  this complaint, but I will 
not ask HSBC UK Bank  PLC to do anything more
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G acting on 
behalf of D to accept  or reject my decision before  17 March 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8776700