K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G complains a loan provided by Honeycomb  Finance Limited  (Honeycomb) was mis-
sold to her by a broker acting as its agent.
Background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision, which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In brief summary, in my provisional  decision I concluded that there were weaknesses in the 
brokers sales process which meant it may not have made  everything  clear to Mrs G when it 
sold her the loan. However, based  on Mrs Gs actions and testimony I thought it was more 
likely than not that she had understood she was signing up for a loan at the time. I said I 
wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
Honeycomb didnt  reply to my provisional decision. Mrs G replied to say she still felt she 
hadnt been sold the loan properly and that if shed known the truth she wouldnt have 
signed up.
The case  has been returned to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I agree the way the loan was sold increased  the 
risk that a consumer would not understand the arrangements they were  entering into. But 
the key question here is whether this meant  Mrs G didnt understand she was taking out a 
loan with a third party (Honeycomb). 
Based on my analysis  of Mrs Gs testimony, and the telephone calls she has had with the 
broker, Honeycomb and this service, I still think its more likely than not that she understood 
she was taking out a loan with a third party at the time it was sold. No new pieces of 
evidence or arguments  have  been put forward by either party to the complaint to persuade 
me otherwise, and it follows  that Im unable to conclude the loan was mis-sold.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN89775982COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Mrs G complains a loan provided by Honeycomb  Finance Limited (Honeycomb) was mis-sold  to her 
by a broker acting as its agent.
Background
Mrs G signed  up for an English and Maths  learning  programme provided  by a broker Ill call X in 
June 2017, for the benefit of her daughter. The course cost £4,224 for a Lifetime Licence and, after 
paying a deposit of £150, Mrs G was expected to make 48 monthly payments of £84.88 on a loan 
agreement with Honeycomb. The course and loan were sold to Mrs G at an evening meeting at her 
home which was organised by X.
As time went  on, Mrs G became dissatisfied with the programme because  it taught the subjects 
differently to how they were  taught at her daughters school,  and this was causing her confusion. In 
January 2018 she emailed  X to cancel, and then spoke to the company on the phone early  in 
February 2018. She outlined her dissatisfaction with the programme and said it had not been 
explained that she was taking out a loan. X treated this as a complaint, and issued a final response in 
March 2018 not upholding it. X said everything had been made very clear  to Mrs G and there was no 
possibility for her to cancel.
Mrs G referred her complaint  to this service for an independent  assessment, where  it was looked at 
by one of our investigators. Our investigator concluded  the loan had been mis-sold. She reasoned 
that Mrs Gs testimony  of the sales  process had been persuasive  and some  of the information shed 
been given by X had been unclear. X disagreed.  It said it didnt think Mrs Gs testimony was credible 
and that she wasnt remembering what happened  correctly, especially considering  how long it had 
been since the sale. It considered it was reasonable to rely on the documents from the time,  in 
particular a hand-signed  form which  it said contradicted Mrs Gs evidence.  It also thought Mrs Gs 
account of events  had been inconsistent and her complaint  was a case  of buyers remorse. 
Because no agreement could be reached, the case  was passed to an ombudsman to decide but, 
before they could make their decision, X went into administration and the servicing of the educational  
programme was taken over by a third party. Arrangements  were subsequently made to bring the 
complaint against Honeycomb in its capacity as lender. After being informed of our investigators 
findings about  the way X had sold the loan to Mrs G, Honeycomb immediately  asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case, so it has fallen to me to decide.
I should  add here for the sake of clarity that Mrs G previously made a complaint to Honeycomb about  
the quality and suitability  of the course for her daughter. That complaint was also referred  to this 
service and an investigator didnt think  it should be upheld. Mrs G didnt ask for that complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so Im not looking into those issues as part of my decision.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The complaint here is, in essence, that Mrs G was mis-sold a loan. But there are broader  
circumstances surrounding the sale of the loan which are relevant, and which I will come on to later in 
this decision. To begin with though, I will outline how it is that Honeycomb can be found  responsible 
for the way the loan was sold when it was not itself the seller.
Mrs Gs loan with Honeycomb is regulated  by the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  This act contains 
provisions which give a degree  of protection  to consumers where they have purchased goods or 
Ref: DRN89775983services with certain types of credit. Mrs Gs loan is of a type which qualifies  for the protection  offered 
by two relevant sections  of the act: section 56 and section 75.
Without going  into great  detail, section 56 has the effect of making  X the agent of Honeycomb during 
the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs G entering  into the loan agreement, beginning  with 
the moment  she was first approached by X. Very broadly  speaking, this means Honeycomb is 
responsible for the acts or omissions of X in relation  to the sale of the loan to Mrs G. In other words, 
Honeycomb has to stand  behind the things X said, did, didnt  say, or didnt do during  the sales 
process.
Section 75 allows Mrs G to make a like claim against Honeycomb in respect of any breach  of contract  
or misrepresentation by X in relation to the purchase of the learning  programme.
Xs responsibilities to Mrs G.
In arranging the loan between Mrs G and Honeycomb, X was acting as a credit broker.  Credit  broking 
is a regulated activity and the relevant regulations and guidance X was expected to follow can be 
found in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC). While  these  
regulations and guidance  do not apply to Honeycomb directly, I think the adherence  (or non-
adherence) to these provisions by brokers acting on its behalf  is something which  is important for it to 
consider as a lender. 
CONC 4.2.5  R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, which 
include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which  may make the credit to be provided under the agreement  
unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be determined,  in 
total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which  may operate in a manner which  would have a significant  
adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer  is unlikely to foresee;
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising  from a failure to make payments  under the 
agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where  applicable and depending  upon 
the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default  charges or interest for late or missed  payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect  on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal  proceedings, including reference to charging orders  (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), and to the 
associated costs  of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customers  home or other property;  and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed;  and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement  and how and when this right 
may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2  R refers back to CONC  4.2.5 R and states:
Ref: DRN89775984A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise  or induce a customer  to enter  into a regulated credit 
agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the pre-contract information  under  
section 55 of the CCA and the explanations  provided under CONC  4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3  R sets out more  general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker should 
conduct itself, explaining  that a broker must:

(2) take reasonable  steps  to satisfy itself that a product  it wishes to recommend  to a customer is not 
unsuitable for the customers needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow  the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the terms 
and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering into it;
The FCA also sets out more  general principles which  it expects financial  firms (including X and 
Honeycomb) to follow, and there  are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate information  to 
them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading.
With the relevant  regulatory  background thus set out, I think its important to move on to a discussion 
of the product Mrs G purchased. Its my view that the nature of this product and the way it was sold is 
likely to have influenced Mrs Gs assumptions about  how she was going to be paying for it. 
The product and its sales  channel
Xs programme was positioned as an affordable,  online alternative to private English  and Maths tuition  
for a child. Typically, private tuition is paid for by the hour, although discounts  may be offered for bulk-
bookings. Online-based  services in general, beyond tuition, are in my experience  and based on my 
further research, often  offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. X itself 
appeared, based on statements on its website  and on other documents  I have seen  from the 
company, to have offered  a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the 
Lifetime Licence  model it sold to Mrs G. 
The Lifetime  Licence model appears to be different in that a single large payment is used to allow 
access to Xs programme for the duration of a childs  schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial  
size of payment  required,  a loan is often  needed  to cover  it, and these loans are not cancellable.  The 
overall effect is that once a person has signed  up for the programme  and the loan, they cannot  cancel 
and are committed to repaying  the loan after 14 days have passed.  This strikes me as an unusual 
model to adopt for a childs tuition due to its lack of flexibility. Its not uncommon for children to change 
tutors for a variety of reasons, and I think flexibility is therefore something most parents  would value 
when considering either face to face or online tuition.
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, a parent accepting  an appointment to learn more 
about Xs programme would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis.  I think  its 
unlikely they would think that they were  going to be signing up for a long-term commitment paid for, 
up front, by a loan. Because X was offering a very different proposition with long-term financial 
implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
Ref: DRN89775985I think  the way Mrs G first became aware  of X is also important.  Mrs G says she was introduced to X 
by her daughters  school,  which gave her daughter a leaflet  from the company to take home. This 
appears to have been  a common practice of X so I do not doubt this happened. Schools are trusted  
public institutions, and Mrs Gs daughters school introduced her to X. I think this implicit endorsement  
or recommendation would have made her more likely  to trust what she was told during the later sales 
process.
Its also worth mentioning that the FCA has this year written to credit brokers outlining some key risks 
it believes they should  consider and act upon. The FCA said it had found firms brokering  credit 
agreements with third party finance providers had poor oversight of staff, leaving  sales practices  
unchecked and potentially increasing the risk of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. 
It singled out brokers  which sell products in the home as potentially  presenting a higher risk of 
consumer harm, especially if sales took place without appropriate oversight  and on a commission-
basis. While no specific firms were mentioned in the FCAs letter,  Im mindful of the fact that in Mrs 
Gs case X was brokering a credit agreement with a third party finance provider  in order to sell her a 
product, in her home, and the FCA has identified this scenario as potentially  presenting a higher  risk 
of consumer harm including mis-selling.
The meeting at Mrs Gs home
Ive thought about what both parties have  told me about  what  happened during  the meeting  at Mrs 
Gs home, along with the other  evidence available from the time.
According to Xs appointment system, their salesperson was due to meet  Mrs G at 7:30pm.  The loan 
agreement was electronically  signed at 9:30pm and other documents relevant  to the purchase were 
signed at about 9:40pm.  This seems consistent with Mrs Gs recollection that it was quite a lengthy 
meeting. Mrs G says she recalls the salesperson speaking to her daughter,  showing printed  examples 
of the programme and how it aligned with the National Curriculum, along with certificates that could 
be printed off as she completed lessons. Mrs G says the salesperson also gave her daughter  some 
example questions to determine where she should start the programme,  spoke about the amount of 
time that was recommended to use the programme  each week, described the support available, and 
demonstrated the programme on a laptop.  
Mrs G says it was only at the end of meeting that the cost of the programme  was mentioned. She 
says she was aware  that she was signing  up to pay monthly for it, but didnt know that she was taking 
out a loan agreement with a third party  because  this wasnt properly explained  to her. She says she 
worked for a bank at the time and sold loans herself, and the salesperson didnt say anything  that 
made the agreement sound like a loan (for example  that there  would be credit checks) and she didnt 
see or sign any loan paperwork, either physically or electronically. She did, however,  sign and initial a 
form. 
The documents from the point of sale
X has previously supplied a number of documents which  Mrs G purportedly signed during  the meeting  
with the salesperson. These documents  are an electronically-signed Proforma Enrolment 
Application, an electronically-signed  Customer  Agreement / Order  Form, and a hand-signed 
Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form. Honeycomb has supplied  the loan agreement  itself, 
which was also electronically-signed.
Mrs G says she doesnt recall signing any documents electronically, but she does remember signing a 
paper form, which appears to be the satisfaction form Ive referred  to above. I can therefore be 
relatively certain Mrs G signed at least this. X said this document was intended  to clear up any 
misunderstandings which could have occurred during  the sales  process. Based  on Mrs Gs later 
phone calls with X, I think its fair to say she understood the meaning of the document  at that point,  
but this doesnt necessarily mean she would  have  done  so at the point of sale.  A persons level of 
understanding of a document  can depend on the context in which it was signed  and the clarity of its 
wording, and I have taken  this into account when considering the form.
Ref: DRN89775986The form is made up of nine separate points with a box next to each containing  Mrs Gs initials. At the 
bottom the form has been dated and signed by Mrs G. The points on the form which I think  are 
particularly relevant  to Mrs Gs complaint are points one to six.
The first point states that Mrs G has chosen to pay for her Lifetime  Licence by way of Cash/Finance. 
I note neither option has been  crossed out or circled to indicate  which one Mrs G was using. The 
second point goes on to set out the overall  cost of the programme (£4,074), and the number  and 
amount of the monthly instalments (48, at £84.87 each). Point three confirmed Mrs G had 
electronically signed a finance agreement if she had chosen  to pay by finance, while point  four 
explained there  was a 14-day cancellation period and point five said she was buying a Lifetime 
Licence and there was no trial period. Finally, point six stated X provided  the product but if Mrs G had 
chosen finance as her payment method  then this would  be provided by a third party or a company 
associated with X.
On the face of it, I think someone who had read the form carefully would  not find it terribly unclear , 
and a savvy  consumer  would likely have questioned points which could  be considered ambiguous. 
For example, while finance is a word which is almost synonymous with loan in the world of lending, 
it is not the ordinary meaning of the word. Indeed, neither word appears as a synonym  of the other in 
the Oxford  English Dictionary.  The word loan  doesnt  appear anywhere  in the paperwork dating from 
the point of sale apart from the loan agreement itself. Overall,  I find the form to have been fairly  clear 
in some respects, but with some ambiguities around the method  of payment.
In respect of the other documents  (including  the loan agreement),  Mrs G says she didnt see or sign 
them. Its not possible for me to be certain, because all the signatures are electronic and were either  
typed (in a handwriting-like font) or confirmed  by clicking in a box. However,  for reasons  Ill go on to 
explain shortly, I am not convinced it is important in this particular case.
Other considerations  relating  to the sales process
I have seen some of the training material  provided by X to its salespeople, which I understand was 
current at the point Mrs G made her purchase. When covering how to explain the financial aspects  of 
the sale,  the word loan does not appear anywhere  in these training materials. The focus appears to 
have been on setting an affordable monthly payment and, in my view, the wording  is fashioned  in 
such a way as to avoid making the arrangement sound like a loan.  This is consistent with the way 
things are explained in the satisfaction form, and I dont think it is as clear  as it should be about the 
mechanism of payment. 
In any event, even if Xs sales  scripts and training materials  had been perfectly clear,  this doesnt 
mean the salesperson  followed the script. I return to the point touched on by the FCA in its letter  to 
credit brokers:  that oversight of salespeople selling  loans to purchase goods or services at 
consumers homes is difficult, and certain incentives (such as commissions  or bonuses) can increase 
the risk of poor consumer outcomes further.  
Overall, I find there were  deficiencies in Xs sales process here which increased the risk that a 
consumer would not understand the arrangements they were entering into. However, I am 
considering Mrs Gs individual case, and just because I have identified some problems with the way 
the arrangements  were  sold to her, does  not necessarily  mean she failed  to understand them. Ive 
gone on to consider this in further  detail  below.
Mrs Gs testimony
Ref: DRN89775987Ive listened to some of Mrs Gs phone calls with X and this service which  date from after she first 
complained, and based  on these it seems she thought she would receive some kind of financial 
accommodation from X and that shed  be paying in instalments for the course. Mrs G appears to have 
had an awareness that this accommodation  was a loan as she says as much on her first phone  call to 
this service. However, she also says she thought it was a loan from X itself, rather than Honeycomb. 
My understanding from what Mrs G said on this phone call is that she felt a loan from X would be 
easier to cancel in the event she didnt want to continue with the programme. 
 
Ive also listened to a phone call Mrs G had with Honeycomb,  and which  I think is quite important. In 
October 2017 Mrs G phoned  Honeycomb  because she wanted to find out what  the direct debit to the 
company was for. On that phone  call Honeycomb explained the arrangements with X as follows: 
what weve done is weve paid them out the full amount up front for that and youre paying us back 
for affordability and asked  Mrs G if she would like a copy of the credit agreement  and welcome letter.  
Mrs G didnt show any surprise on this call that X had been paid in full up front or that she had a credit 
agreement. And I note she did not complain until January 2018. If Mrs G had not understood that she 
had entered  a credit agreement with Honeycomb, who had paid X in full, I would have expected her to 
raise her concerns  soon after she became aware of the true picture. But I cant  see that she did.
Before X went  into administration,  it sought to highlight  some apparent inconsistencies  in some of the 
things Mrs G had said. For example, when  she spoke  to X about  her complaint, Mrs G said she knew 
she had signed every  one of the boxes and doesnt have a leg to stand on. While I appreciate there 
could be several different  interpretations of what exactly Mrs G was referring  to here  it does make it 
sound likely she had understood the arrangements  shed entered into. 
Conclusions regarding the sales process
I find it is likely Mrs G went into the sales process with X with an assumption that she would not be 
entering into a long-term financial arrangement. Based on what I know about  Xs sales process, I 
think there was a risk it wasnt made particularly  clear to Mrs G that she was taking out a loan with 
Honeycomb to pay for the educational programme.  I also cant be certain that she signed all the e-
signed documents herself.
However, having listened to Mrs Gs phone calls with X, this service, and Honeycomb, I think its more 
likely than not that she did understand at the time that she was taking out a loan with a third party  to 
pay for the course, and this is the key point for me in her case. In the end, Im unable  to reach  a 
conclusion that the loan was mis-sold to her.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
I invite both parties to the case to send to me any additional evidence or arguments they wish to make 
by 6 September 2020. After  this date I will review  the case again.
Will Culley
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8977598