K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down his claim for one of 
his two lost phones, under a mobile phone and gadget insurance policy. He also complained 
about the length of time it had taken Assurant to deal with his claim.  
background
Mr N has mobile  phone and gadget  insurance with Assurant, linked to his bank account. 
Mr N made  a claim to Assurant as hed lost two phones at the same  time. Assurant 
ultimately accepted  the claim for one of the phones (which Ill call phone  1). But it wouldnt 
accept the claim for the other phone (phone 2) because it said Mr N hadnt proved he 
owned phone 2. Phone 2s contract  was in another persons name. Assurant  said it would 
reconsider the claim if Mr N provided  proof  of ownership for phone 2.
Mr N said he paid the bill and was responsible  for phone 2. He came to us.
Our investigator thought Assurant had made a fair decision not to replace phone  2. He said 
the claim had taken some time because Assurant had been waiting for Mr N to give it the 
evidence it had asked  for. 
Mr N asked for a review. He said hes been paying  the premiums for the policy and had 
registered phone 2 as one of the phones/devices  registered under the policy. Hes unhappy 
Assurant isnt replacing phone 2. He said phone 2 was in a friends name  as he couldnt  get 
a contract himself, but that he used both the phone and the number.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why and in doing  so Ill focus on what  I think  are 
the central issues in this complaint. 
Mr Ns mobile  phone policy is linked  to a bank account. Under the policy  he is able to 
register a phone with its details including its unique identifying number called the IMEI. As 
Mr N says, hed registered phone 2 as one of the phones/devices under the policy with 
Assurant before the phone was lost. But this isnt enough for him to make a successful 
claim. Registering the phone doesnt prove he owns the phone. 
In order to make a successful insurance claim,  it is for a policyholder  to prove  their claim. 
That means that they have to prove they owned  the items claimed  for and that an insured 
event occurred. 
In this case, Assurants  policy said that it might ask Mr N for proof  of ownership. This might 
include the make and model  of the device  and something that tells Assurant that the item 
belongs to the policyholder. Proof of ownership  might include a till receipt or documentation 
from the airtime provider.  Assurant said if the policyholder didnt  have any proof of ownership 
it might  decline the claim.
Ref: DRN84874622Mr N has provided Assurant  with details of the make and model of phone 2, including the 
IMEI number.  But in this case  I think Assurant made  a fair decision when it said Mr N hadnt  
given it enough  evidence to prove he owned phone 2.
Mr N gave Assurant a proof of ownership for phone 2. But this wasnt  in his name. It was in a 
different persons name  and under  a different  address.  At Assurants request Mr N sent in a 
bank statement which did show he was making a payment to the same airtime provider as 
on the proof of ownership letter for phone  2. But there isnt anything else to show  a link 
between the payment and the proof of ownership letter for phone 2. 
I think Assurant was entitled to ask for the evidence it did to assess Mr Ns claim. It accepted 
the claim for phone 1 when he gave it the information it needed. But for the reasons Ive 
given I think Assurants decision  not to accept the claim for phone  2 was a fair one.
Assurant has said that if Mr N can give it any other evidence to show he owned  and was 
responsible for phone 2 then it will reconsider  his claim. I think thats a reasonable response, 
and I dont require  it to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8487462