K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has been unable to alter her address on its 
records. Its sending account statements to her old address.
background
Mrs T had a number of accounts with Barclays. She moved  house  but Barclays  said it 
couldnt change  the address on its system for her helpful start accounts. So the statements 
are still being sent to her old address. Mrs T said she had a postal redirect  in place at the 
moment. But it could  only be used for 12 months.  
Barclays said there was a fault on its system  for this particular type of account.  And it was 
investigating the problem. Itd updated  Mrs Ts residential address. But her correspondence 
address was unaltered. And the bank apologised for not being  able to resolve  the matter.
Barclays had advised Mrs T to select online/paperless statements  to stop them  going to the 
wrong address.  But Mrs T hadnt wanted  to do that. Shed had problems with online banking  
before. Barclays offered  Mrs T £125  compensation for the problems shed experienced. And 
the time it was taking  to resolve  them.
Mrs T wasnt satisfied  with Barclays response. So she contacted our service  and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Mrs T would only be able to use a postal 
redirect for 12 months. So shed asked  Barclays  to consider alternatives to online banking as 
Mrs T didnt  want  to use it. She asked Barclays to send Mrs Ts statements  by post to the 
correct address every six months until the issue  was resolved. And she felt the bank should 
compensate Mrs T with £200  for the stress  and inconvenience shes suffered  and for the 
cost of the postal  redirection.
Barclays agreed to the recommended  compensation.  But it said statements  were printed and 
sent automatically from a central location.  So it would be impossible to know when Mrs Ts 
statements were being produced. It accepted  Mrs T wanted paper statements. But it couldnt 
send them manually. Barclays said Mrs T could visit her branch to collect  statements until 
itd fixed the problem.
Mrs T didnt  agree. She was still being inconvenienced. And she didnt want  to use online 
banking to view her accounts. Shed tried in the past and hadnt liked it. So shes asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This mustve been very frustrating for Mrs T. She had two helpful  start accounts connected 
to her childrens mortgages. And although  shed  told Barclays  that shed moved house itd 
been unable  to stop her statements being  sent to her old address.
It seems  this is a known fault in Barclays system.  It only affects this particular type of 
account. And it wont allow anyone to update the correspondence address  at present.
Ref: DRN87547212Barclays has explained its working  on a solution  to the problem. But it doesnt  have a 
timescale for when  the issue will be fixed. And its suggested that Mrs T consider online or 
paperless statements  in the meantime. But I can see Mrs T says this isnt something  she 
wants to do. 
I realise Mrs T feels as if nothing has actually been achieved. Barclays can only stop the 
statement going to the wrong address if she switches to online access.  And if she doesnt 
want to go online to view her statements she would then have to visit her branch to obtain a 
paper copy.  This is clearly  an unsatisfactory outcome  for Mrs T. And Barclays  doesnt have a 
timescale when it will be able to fix the problem.
Mrs T is worried her statements will be still be sent to her old address after the redirect ends. 
And I can understand her concern. I can see our investigator discussed as number of 
alternative solutions with Barclays.  But the statement runs are automated and produced  
centrally. And there  doesnt  appear  to be any other way of stopping  paper production  other 
than changing  (at least temporarily) to online banking. That would stop the paper statements 
being sent. And even if Mrs T didnt want to go online  she could still visit her branch for 
paper copies.
I do realise this isnt a full resolution to the problem Mrs T is experiencing. But it would fix 
some of the problems while Barclays determines  why it cant  update  the address fields  for 
this type of account.
Barclays has agreed to pay Mrs T £200 compensation for her trouble and upset. And I think 
thats only right. Although Barclays isnt obligated to offer paper statements there is clearly a 
fault in its system. I do appreciate the temporary solution suggested will cause Mrs T some 
inconvenience. But there doesnt seem  to be any way of manually altering Barclays  
processes. So I cant  ask Barclays to do anything more until it fixes the problem.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should pay Mrs T £200 compensation for her 
trouble and upset  as it has already  agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754721