K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited (Admiral)  recorded a claim for 
an accident he had whilst  driving his daughters car on her insurance policy rather  than his 
own. 
background
Mr M had an accident whilst  driving his daughters car. He was a named driver on this policy.
He called Admiral  to make a claim and asked that it be added to his policy  rather  than his 
own. Adding it to his daughters policy would affect her no claims bonus. Mr M said he was 
using the car for the purpose of commuting  at the time and he wasnt covered for this on his 
daughters policy.  And on his own policy  he was covered for driving other  cars  so it should  
be that policy that the claim is added to.
However, when Admiral considered the claim it was registered on his daughters  policy. Mr 
M called Admiral and made a complaint. Mr M was also unhappy with the service  that hed 
been provided when trying  to contact Admiral.
Admiral responded  to apologise that Mr M had been cut-off  a number of times trying to 
contact the right area. It said it had paid him £60 in compensation  for this.
In regards to the recording  of the claim, Admiral said it had recorded  it correctly. It explained 
that Mr M could only use his own insurance policy  if he wasnt covered under another policy. 
Admiral said it had checked with its underwriters  whether the fact Mr M said he had been 
commuting and the policy didnt cover for commuting would make  a difference.  But the 
underwriters said that they had considered  this but the fact Mr M had been commuting 
hadnt altered  its view on whether the claim should be successful  under  his daughters 
policy. So it wouldnt be upholding his complaint.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms case but she didnt think  Admiral had made an error so 
didnt recommend that it was upheld.
Mr M was unhappy with this, he again pointed to the fact that hed been commuting and this 
wasnt covered under  his daughters policy. And so in that instance  it would revert to his 
policy as it covered him for driving other  cars as long as he wasnt  covered under other  
insurance. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I understand Mr Ms view  he is essentially disputing the fact that Admiral accepted a 
claim. This is because  he believes  hell be able to claim  on his own policy, if Admiral agrees 
that he is not covered under any other  insurance.  However, Admiral  has said he is covered 
under his daughters policy as he is a named driver on this.
So to say that Admiral  has done something  wrong, Id have to say it shouldnt have covered 
him under his daughters  policy and then ask it to consider  the claim under his own policy.  
As we are not underwriters I wouldnt be telling Admiral to pay the claim against Mr Ms 
policy, instead if I thought it had done  something wrong  Id be asking it to reconsider the 
Ref: DRN88195042claim. This is in part because there  is always the potential that it might not be covered or 
accepted for a reason  yet to be considered. So I cant say it should  pay a claim.
Usually complaints  are that the business  hasnt accepted a claim. Here the starting point  is 
that Mr M wants  Admiral to say that hes not covered under his daughters policy,  so in 
essence to decline  that claim. Mr M says that this should be the case  as he was commuting 
and the policy doesnt cover for commuting. However, Admiral has said its underwriters have 
considered this but have accepted the claim as valid under his daughters insurance. Its also 
reconsidered this in light of Mr Ms complaint but came to the same conclusion.
Whilst I can understand Mr M will be disappointed,  Im not in a position to tell its underwriters 
to decline a claim. Admiral has said the fact that Mr M was commuting didnt make a 
difference to its underwriting of the claim. In view of the fact that the claim was accepted, its 
underwriters have confirmed there  hasnt  been  a mistake.  
And I think Mr M is assuming that the claim would be accepted  on his policy but Admiral  has 
indicated that this likely wouldnt  be the case.  He is covered on his daughters policy  and the 
exclusion on his policy is:
 1b. Driving  Other Cars 
You will be covered for everything listed in clause 1a when you are driving  any other  car 
as long as: 
-you are not covered  by any other insurance  to drive it.
I think that this likely would be regardless of whether the claim was accepted  on his 
daughters policy or not  as he was still covered  by other insurance to drive  it. So I dont 
think its likely Mr M wouldve had a claim accepted on his policy  in any event.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8819504