K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Assicurazioni  Generali SpA (Generali) turned down the claim he made 
under a group income protection  policy.
background
Mr A was a member of his employers group income  protection policy.
Mr A was suspended from work towards the end of May 2017  following an incident  with 
some other members  of staff. On 9 June  Mr As GP said he was unfit for work due to work-
related stress, mixed anxiety and depression and also prescribed antidepressants.  Mr A met 
with his GP regularly up until mid-August and then again towards the end of December, his 
medication was altered  and he sought  counselling. 
In January 2018 Mr A made a claim on his income protection policy  which Generali turned 
down in March,  and again in July 2018 after Mr A appealed. Generali said the incapacity 
definition had not been satisfied because:  
The medical evidence  suggested  Mr As functional capacity was quite high in terms of 
conducting day to day activities. He was suffering  from anxiety and panic attacks and his 
symptoms were  exacerbated  by an event that occurred in his workplace.
A fit to work assessment was carried out in August 2017 and potential return  to work 
date set for the following  month  with the recommendation that Mr A and his employer 
meet to resolve  the workplace concerns.  But this didnt happen because Mr A was not 
well enough to meet with his employer.
Mr A hadnt been to see his GP for a number  of months, hed stopped taking his 
medication and the referral to counselling had been  pushed  back  to January 2018. So Mr 
As engagement with his treatment didnt match the severity  of his symptoms.
The evidence suggested Mr A was capable of being involved in a return  to work 
program. And his return to work  would only be effective if the employment  issue was 
resolved and his employer  gave  him the appropriate support.
Mr A asked us to look into his complaint and our investigator thought Generali should pay 
the claim.  She could see why Generali had raised questions  about why Mr A had stopped  
engaging with his GP between mid-August and late-December. But she accepted  his 
explanation that this had been a particularly  low period of time and hed been  house/bed-
bound. Generali disagreed so the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I need to decide if Generali fairly declined Mr As claim. With that in mind, the policy  terms 
and conditions say a claim will be paid after a waiting period of 26 weeks, if as a result of 
illness or injury the member is incapable of performing  the material  and substantial duties of 
their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other work or occupation.
Ref: DRN83222972In response to the investigators assessment, Generali didnt dispute that Mr A had been 
suffering with anxiety  and depression from June  2017 when he was first signed off work. 
What it doubts was the severity of his symptoms  between  August to December 2017 given 
his lack of engagement with his GP over that period of time. But I have  no reason to doubt  
what Mr A says about this. He has been  consistent  in his recollections  and I think  what he 
says is plausible, particularly in light of whats reported in the medical records  up to August 
2017, the return to work plan from mid-August 2017,  the correspondence with his employer 
in September  2017 and the post-December 2017 medical records. In particular that:
In August 2017 Mr As GP provided a statement of fitness  for work which  said he wasnt 
fit to work from 9 June  to 9 December 2017.  And I accept the suggestion that its 
somewhat unusual for a GP to sign someone  off work for so long in advance.  But 
nothing Ive seen  gives any suggestion  that this fit note had been  inappropriately given  or 
that Mr As condition had improved significantly  between August and December 2017. 
The return to work  plan said Mr A wasnt fit for work at that time due to the symptoms he 
was experiencing.  Also that an early resolution  to the workplace  issues would be helpful  
in promoting recovery.  That suggests to me that the problem at work might  have been a 
contributory factor affecting Mr As mental  health but not the sole cause.  And although an 
anticipated return to work date of 20 September was given, it was also noted that this 
actually was the date Mr As progress would be reviewed rather  than the date he was 
expected to return to work.
Mr A told his employer repeatedly that he was having difficulty coping with what had 
happened at work  and didnt  feel he could attend the related grievance and disciplinary 
process. 
Mr A has said more  than once that the medication he was initially prescribed made him 
feel so unwell he stopped taking it and subsequently became more depressed, anxious 
and house-bound so that he didnt feel he could consult his GP again.  He did consult 
with his GP in late-December and was prescribed a different medication  and sought  
more than one course  of counselling which was ongoing at the point his claim was 
declined.
This case has been complicated  somewhat  by the fact Mr A had some problems at work. 
And it seems the issue that ultimately  led to a disciplinary investigation and grievance might 
have been a trigger for his illness. But, having considered all the evidence  I think  its 
supportive of the fact Mr A had an underlying mental health condition  which  had 
incapacitated him from June 2017  onwards. 
In the circumstances I think Generali should have  paid Mr As claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Assicurazioni Generali SpA to 
accept Mr As claim and pay benefit  in accordance  with the policys  remaining terms and 
conditions. Interest should be added to the benefit payments at the annual simple  rate of 
8%, calculated from the date each payment was due to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN83222973If Generali considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr A how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr A a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8322297