K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Clydesdale Bank  Plc mis-sold her both a Silver and a Signature packaged bank 
account.
background
Mrs S account history is as follows:
1995: opened as a fee-free account,
August 2000:  upgraded  to a Silver account,
September 2001: downgraded to a fee-free account,
May 2011: upgraded to a Signature account.
Our adjudicator investigated the complaint and didnt agree the accounts had been mis-sold.  
Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs S complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Clydesdale mis-sold either the Silver or the Signature account.  
Ill explain  why. 
Silver account
Mrs S says she was told she had to have  the packaged accounts due to [her] overdraft 
facility. Clydesdale  has said this wasnt a requirement to have or keep an overdraft. Where 
theres a disagreement  over what happened, and I dont have much evidence  from the time 
of the sale, I must consider what I think is more  likely in the circumstances.  
At the time of the sale of the Silver account, Clydesdale  offered fee-free accounts with 
overdrafts. And fee-free accounts  in general  were  widely advertised and available  from 
banks, building  societies  and other  financial institutions. While its possible the Clydesdale  
representative deliberately and falsely told Mrs S she had to pay a monthly  fee for an 
account with an overdraft facility, I dont think its more likely. Instead,  I think its more likely  
there was a discussion about the benefits  of the account, particularly the overdraft benefits. 
And that Mrs S agreed to take out the account,  knowing she didnt have to. 
I say this because  the main benefit  of the Silver account was an automatic £1,000 overdraft  
facility, which I can see was applied  to Mrs S account. And by having the Silver account,  
Mrs S avoided paying the arrangement and monthly  maintenance fee for the overdraft. In 
addition to this, she received  preferential credit and debit interest rates on the account. She 
also avoided  having to pay charges for direct  debits and standing  orders. So, on balance,  I 
think its more likely  that Mrs S agreed to upgrade  the account  for the overdraft benefits, 
rather than it being the case that Clydesdale told her she had to have the account  to have 
the overdraft. 
Ref: DRN89551992Based on the information available to me, I dont think Clydesdale recommended  the Silver 
account to Mrs S. So, it didnt have  to check that the account was suitable for her. But it did 
have to give her enough  information so she could make sure she wanted it.
As I mentioned earlier, there are no documents from the time of the sale,  which  isnt 
unreasonable considering  it was almost 20 years  ago. So, its possible Mrs S wasnt  given all 
the important  information  about the account at the time. But I dont think better information 
about the account would have affected  her decision to take it out. I say this because  the 
Silver account had no insurance products attached to it, and the main benefit was the 
overdraft arrangement. And because I think its more likely  Mrs S agreed  to the Silver 
account because  of the overdraft benefits, I dont think  she would have changed  her mind if 
she was given better information about the account as a whole.
Mrs S has also said she was unaware  of the account fee. Ive thought about this carefully. I 
can see Mrs S upgraded her account  from a fee-free one, and then downgraded back to a 
fee-free account  a year into having  the Silver account. Considering  this, I think its 
reasonable to expect  there would be a cost involved in changing her account to one with 
additional benefits. So, on balance, I think its more likely Mrs S was aware  of the monthly  
fee attached to the account.
signature
Clydesdale has been able to give me a copy of the signed application form for the Signature  
account. So, I can see Mrs S gave her consent for the account to be upgraded. I appreciate 
Mrs S comments that she was told she had to have the account due to her overdraft. But 
looking at her account history, I can see she had previously had a fee-free account with an 
overdraft for almost 10 years. So, on balance, I think Mrs S was aware  she could maintain 
her overdraft on her fee-free account. And that she chose to take out the Signature for the 
benefits it provided. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I also think the Signature account wasnt recommended  to Mrs S. 
So, Clydesdale also didnt have to make sure this account was right for her. But the same 
obligations about providing  information  applied. 
Considering the signed  application form, I think its more likely the Clydesdale  representative  
explained the main features of the account.  This is because I think  its likely  they would have 
wanted to make the account sound attractive to Mrs S. At the time of the sale,  the benefits  
were: worldwide travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and beneficial  
rates on the overdraft.  
 
I appreciate Mrs S has said she didnt need some of the benefits. But this was a packaged 
account and it wasnt possible  to pick and choose  the benefits  on the account at the time. 
While I can see no reason  why Mrs S couldnt use the insurance  benefits on the account, I 
think its more likely  she was attracted to the overdraft benefits, seeing as it offered 
preferential rates. And I can see Mrs S used her overdraft  facility each month. So, I think  its 
unlikely better information  about the account would have made Mrs S change  her mind 
about taking it out.
Mrs S has again said she was unaware of the fee. As mentioned above, I think its more 
likely she was aware of the monthly  fee on the Silver account, so it follows that Mrs S was 
also aware of the monthly fee on the Signature account. In addition to this, the application 
Ref: DRN89551993form that Mrs S signed for the Signature account  me mentioned  there would be a monthly  
fee attached to it. 
I understand that Mrs S husband  received a full refund of the account  fees for his packaged 
account. And Mrs S feels she should also receive  a refund as they have similar complaints.  
I can understand why she feels this way. But we look at each case on its individual  merits. 
And theres  a lot of things that affect whether a packaged account was mis-sold, like what it 
included, who it was covering, when it was sold, the sales  process at the time, and so on. 
I explained above why I thought that, in this particular case, its most likely that Mrs S 
packaged accounts werent mis-sold.
Mrs S may now, with the benefit of hindsight, think she should not have upgraded her 
account and that some  of the benefits  werent  as good as she had expected.  And given what 
she might  have read or heard about packaged  bank accounts, I can to some extent 
understand why she believes the Silver  and Signature accounts might  have been mis-sold. 
But I think its more likely  than not Mrs S chose to take the packaged accounts  after having  a 
reasonable idea of what they entailed. So overall, I dont think Clydesdale mis-sold the 
accounts to Mrs S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8955199