K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about credit granted to him by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
(Moneybarn). He says it was irresponsible to have  agreed credit for him as he had a history 
of reliance on short-term lending and had recently defaulted on a loan. 
background
Moneybarn agreed  credit for Mr K in January 2014  via an intermediary  in order for him to 
acquire a car. The cash price of the car, as per the agreement, was £11,9051. Mr K paid a 
deposit of £400 and borrowed the remainder. The deposit and the credit, along with £7,367 
interest and charges, came to a total £19,272. This was to be repaid by 47 instalments of 
£402, following  the initial deposit. 
The credit was granted under a conditional sale agreement meaning Mr K would own the car 
when the credit had been repaid. Moneybarn was the owner  until that point and Mr K was, in 
essence, paying for the use of it. I understand that Mr K voluntarily terminated the 
agreement in February 2016 when  hed repaid half the amount owing and so returned the 
car with nothing further to pay.
Mr K says that Moneybarn should  not have  agreed  to lend to him because  at that time he 
had recently borrowed  from short-term credit lenders  and had problems managing an 
existing loan. He says he paid over £10,000 to have the use of the car for two years  and had 
to borrow from elsewhere again  to meet his repayments. Mr K says the agreement cost him 
years of financial pain.  
Moneybarn says that it undertook suitable  checks to ensure the credit was affordable  for 
Mr K and that it wasnt irresponsible to agree  to lend to him. 
Our investigator looked into what happened when Mr Ks agreement was set up and didnt 
recommend that his complaint be upheld.  Mr K didnt agree with this assessment and asked 
for his complaint  to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
I issued a provisional decision on the 16 February in which I explained why I was thinking  of 
coming to the same  outcome  and explained my reasons. Mr K responded to my provisional 
decision to say that he didnt agree with it. Ive summarised his points below.
Mr K says that Moneybarn has not proved that it carried out any checks  before lending to 
him. Furthermore, Moneybarn could  not have seen  Mr Ks bank  statements for the period 
20th of November  2013 to 27th of January 2014  because the statement covering the 10th of 
January 2014  onwards wasnt issued until 3rd of March 2014.
Mr K also said that this Service has quoted two different average monthly earnings in its 
responses  the investigator estimated an average  of £1,646  and I referred to an average of 
£1,888 as Moneybarns estimation. Mr K says this difference  is significant  because it shows 
how close he was to being declined for credit.
Finally, Mr K says that if Moneybarn had carried out further checks it would not have 
included a particular  deposit (of £1,080) as earnings because  this was out of sync with his 
usual income deposits. Mr K doesnt recall now what this amount was for but says that he 
1 Ive rounded all figures  to the nearest pound for simplicity. 
Ref: DRN81605022would have known  what it was for at the time and that it would not have been earnings.  He 
says Moneybarn should have disregarded this deposit, as it did with two other deposits, 
which would have resulted in his application being declined  (as the repayments would then 
take up more  than 25% of his monthly  income  and Moneybarn  has said that it wouldnt 
approve an application under those circumstances).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As before, I have also taken into account 
the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good  industry practice at the time. Ive carefully  
considered what  Mr K has said in response  to my provisional decision. Having done so, I am 
not upholding his complaint. I know this will be disappointing for Mr K and I am sorry this isnt 
the outcome he was hoping for.
Ill start by addressing  Mr Ks specific point about  bank  statements  Moneybarn provided  a 
copy of the bank statements it says it relied  on in its assessment which  show they were  
printed from the banks  website on the 28 January 2014 and so include information from the 
day before. Regarding Mr Ks point about the different average earnings quoted  our 
investigator said that the bank statements theyd seen from before the inception of the 
agreement showed  Mr K had an average monthly income of £1,646. In my provisional 
decision Id quoted the figure Moneybarn mentioned in its final response  to him, which was 
higher. I can see that the former was calculated over three months  (as Mr K provided 
additional bank  statements to this Service) and Moneybarn calculated  its figure  over eight  
weeks. 
I still dont think Moneybarns estimate  was unreasonable - it may have varied if the lender  
had seen more  of Mr Ks bank statements  than it did but not to the extent I think that it would 
have automatically  declined to lend to him. With regard to including or excluding  certain  
deposits  given the length of time that has passed,  I can understand why Mr K isnt in a 
position to identify specific deposits  into this bank account. But, on balance,  I cant  therefore  
say it was wrong of Moneybarn to have considered this as income.
I am still of the view that Moneybarn ought to have looked further into Mr Ks circumstances 
before lending to him. Ive explained why I think it ought to have done so in my provisional  
decision so I wont set out my reasoning here again.  And, as before,  taking  into 
consideration what Mr K has told this Service about  his expenses at that time and what  I can 
see on the bank  statements  hes provided,  I think Moneybarn would most likely  have  
concluded that Mr K had enough disposable income  to afford the repayments  sustainably 
and would have  agreed to lend to him. In conclusion, I dont find that it was irresponsible  to 
have done so on this occasion.  
Ref: DRN81605023my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision I am not upholding Mr Ks 
complaint against  Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2021.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN81605024EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I am not minded to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for him and I hope the following  explanation clearly sets out my reasons.
The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) was the regulator when  Mr K borrowed from Moneybarn2. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) said that 
before lending it needed to check  that Mr K could  afford  to meet his repayments in a sustainable 
manner. This meant  Mr K being able to meet his repayments out of his normal  income and savings 
without having  to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive about  what checks Moneybarn needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether  or not Mr K would  be able to meet his repayments sustainably. But the 
regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate.  This suggests  that the same checks 
might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same consumer in all 
circumstances. Ive highlighted some of the relevant guidance below  for ease.
ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources  of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment  of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit sought being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely to involve more than solely  
assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay  the credit in question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning credit that can be repaid  by the 
borrower:
without undue difficulty  in particular  without  incurring or increasing problem  indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case of open-end agreements, within  a 
reasonable period  of time 
out of income  and/or available  savings, without having to realise  security or assets.
And Paragraph  4.4 described undue difficulty:
The OFT would regard without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower being  able to 
make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that were  not reasonably 
foreseeable at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable outgoings and
without having to borrow  further to meet these repayments. 
Paragraph 4.26 gave an example of irresponsible lending as Granting an application  for credit when, 
on the basis of an affordability assessment, it is known, or reasonably  ought  to be suspected, that the 
credit is likely to be unsustainable. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require  more assurance the greater the potential risk to the borrower  
of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable  way. So, for example, Id expect  a lender to seek 
more assurance,  potentially by carrying  out more  detailed  checks
2 The Financial Conduct  Authority took over regulation in April 2014. Its rules and guidance are set out in the Consumer Credit  
Source Book (CONC)  and were similar to and referenced the ILG.
Ref: DRN81605025-the lower a persons income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
-the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely to 
be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind,  in coming  to a decision  on Mr Ks case, I have considered  the following  
questions:
-did Moneybarn complete reasonable and proportionate checks when  assessing 
Mr Ks application  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable 
way? 
-if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?  
-did Moneybarn make a fair lending decision?
Moneybarn says that it verified Mr Ks income against his bank statements and checked his credit file. 
It hasnt been able to provide the results of this check but it said that having  reviewed  the information 
it gathered, it concluded that the credit would be affordable for 
Mr K. It says the checks it carried out were sufficient to enable it to make a reasonable assessment of 
Mr Ks ability to meet his repayments.
Mr K was entering into a significant  commitment  with Moneybarn in that he would, potentially,  need to 
make monthly  repayments  for four years.  So I think it was reasonable that Moneybarn  wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about his financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I think that, on the face of it, the checks Moneybarn  did seemed 
proportionate. But a lender  also needs to react appropriately to the information  shown by those  
checks by, for example, ensuring that the information it has is complete  and correct  (ILG 4.29). So 
Ive looked carefully at the information Moneybarn says it checked to consider whether the lenders 
assessment of it was reasonable.
Moneybarn estimated  Mr Ks monthly net income at the time to be £1,888 based on his bank 
statements covering the period from 20 November 2013 to the 27 January  2014. The monthly  
repayments of £402 came to about 21% of Mr Ks estimated monthly  take-home pay. I appreciate that 
this was a lower proportion of his estimated income  than Moneybarns internal criterion, nevertheless 
it amounted to a fifth of Mr Ks income which he would potentially need to set aside each month for a 
period of four years. The bank statements show a mixed pattern of deposits  regular weekly  amounts 
and ad-hoc payments  and I think Moneybarn  ought to have checked whether all deposits were  in fact 
income which Mr K could use to meet  his payments.
As mentioned,  I dont know what Moneybarn might have seen on Mr Ks credit file, but I can see from 
a copy hes provided he had difficulty repaying vehicle finance with sustained  arrears throughout 2013  
until it was settled in August. Hed taken out several concurrent short-term  loans around this time 
which were  repaid in November, less than two months prior to taking on this agreement. These short 
term loan repayments can be seen  on the bank  statements. I cant  see that Mr K had any other 
finance in place when  he borrowed from Moneybarn, or any short term loans. Mr K pointed out that 
that at that time he had direct debits returned and paid unauthorised overdraft charges. The bank 
statements Moneybarn saw show overdraft  charges  in December and January. These appear to have  
been caused  by Mr K going  overdrawn by about £100 due to the timing  of a regular payment. 
Altogether, I dont think  any of this means that Moneybarn  should have automatically declined  to lend 
to Mr K. Afterall, Moneybarn says it specialises in providing credit for people who might be declined 
elsewhere. However, I do think that, given the above circumstances,  a reasonable and proportionate 
response from Moneybarn would have included gathering an understanding of Mr Ks outgoings at the 
time to check  that he could  repay  the credit over the term while meeting  his other commitments.  I also 
think it ought  to have inquired further into his income. I appreciate that Moneybarn acquired  copies of 
Ref: DRN81605026Mr Ks bank statements  but it says that it didnt carry out an income and expenditure  assessment on 
these. 
But although  I dont  think the checks Moneybarn  did before agreeing the credit were  entirely  sufficient, 
that in itself doesnt  mean that Mr Ks complaint  should succeed.  Id also need to be persuaded that 
what I consider  to be proportionate checks would  have  shown Moneybarn that Mr K couldnt  
sustainably afford the repayments. Ive considered  what Moneybarn might have found out, had it 
looked further  into Mr Ks circumstances before agreeing credit for him and I dont think that further 
information would have led it to decline his application. 
Mr K says that he was self-employed at the time, was living with his father and didnt pay rent or 
housing costs. When  asked  by this Service about his income, Mr K said that some of the deposits into 
his bank account would  have been  for company  costs and not income for his personal use. He says 
his income was usually paid weekly  on a Wednesday and pointed  to three deposits that were out of 
sync with that pattern.  One was labelled  office refurbishment, the other entertainment and together 
these amount to £300. The third deposit is unidentifiable  and amounts to £1,080.  
Moneybarn didnt take the former two amounts into consideration when estimating Mr Ks monthly net 
income but it did include  the third. I asked  Mr K specifically about this and he was unable to recall  
what this payment was for. Mr K has also told this Service that his annual gross salary ranged from 
about £28,000  to £34,000.  Altogether, I dont  have enough to persuade me that Moneybarns estimate 
of Mr Ks income  was unreasonable. 
Mr K gave some figures for his regular  outgoings. I can identify these on the bank statements and 
they generally  came to less than £700 a month.3 So, although I think Moneybarn ought to have looked 
into Mr Ks spending in more detail, I dont think it would have found anything which would  have been 
of such  concern it would have concluded  that Mr K didnt have  enough disposable  income to afford 
the repayments sustainably and declined to lend to him. 
I appreciate Mr Ks strength of feeling on this matter and I want to reassure him I have carefully 
considered everything  hes said and all the information I have available to me. I think Moneybarn 
could have done more  before agreeing to lend to him but, had it done so, I think  its unlikely that it 
would have found anything to suggest that the credit would be unsustainable  for him. Altogether, I am 
not currently  persuaded that it lent irresponsibly or unfairly on this occasion. 
3 Approximate costs include food £100, travel £250, car insurance  and cover £100, media £120 and gym £85.
Ref: DRN8160502