K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc rejected her claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a holiday.
background
In July 2015 Miss Bs husband, Mr A, tried to book  holiday by phone with a company I will 
call T using  her credit card. The hotel they wanted  wasnt available  and Miss B says her 
husband was offered  another  hotel which was similar and which was family friendly. After 
making the booking  they checked the hotel online and found  it was a three star hotel and not 
four star as they wished.  They called  back immediately  and tried to cancel the holiday, but 
were told that they couldnt as the departure date was less than two weeks away. 
Miss B wrote  to T to confirm the cancellation on 20 July, seven days before the beginning of 
the holiday. Mr A also requested copies of the recording of the call made to T, but he says 
she didnt receive  these.
A claim  was made under section 75 and Capital One declined  it. It said that it was Mr A who 
had booked the holiday and any misrepresentation had been  made  to him and not Miss B. 
It also said that it couldnt say what had been said during the conversation between Mr A 
and T and therefore  it couldnt say that there  had been any misrepresentation.
Miss Bs complaint was rejected by Capital One.  It reiterated the reasons for it refusing the 
claim and pointed out that the original cancellation letter which  had been provided  was dated 
20 July and not 17th as subsequently suggested.  
Miss B brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She said she hadnt  seen any evidence 
that would  allow her to conclude  the holiday was misrepresented to Mr A over the phone. 
She hadnt been able to listen to a copy of the call, and she noted Miss B wasn't party to the 
call either.  
She said the copy of the quote sent to Miss B dated 17 July confirmed cancellation must be 
made in writing. They also stated that the charge for cancellation within  seven days from 
departure would be 100%  of the price of the holiday.  She said Miss B didn't send a 
cancellation in writing until 20 July 2015, seven days before the holiday.  She didnt consider 
T had breached the contract.
Miss B didnt agree and said Capital One had failed to accept Mr A had used the credit  card 
with Miss Bs permission.  She said she had called T within 10 minutes  of the booking  being 
made and had asked to cancel. She said she had rung Capital One shortly after the booking  
to ask that it be cancelled and was told to leave the transaction  and it would raise  an enquiry 
afterwards. 
She said as the booking  was made  over the phone she wasnt  aware of the need to cancel 
in writing. She had made every effort to cancel the holiday. She added that she was also on 
the phone  during the booking call. T had failed to provide a copy of a recording of the call 
which should be taken  into account. She said Capital One hadnt acted in good  faith by 
ignoring Ts failure to provide the recording.
Ref: DRN84128942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain
I am happy that the debtor-creditor-supplier link required  by section 75 hadnt been  broken. 
Mr A booked the holiday, but it was for the benefit  of the family including  Miss B. That leaves 
me to consider if there has been either  a breach  of contract or misrepresentation.
I dont believe there  has been a breach of contract. Mr A booked the holiday and the terms 
and conditions require  any cancellation  to be made in writing  and that be done within seven 
days to ensure a full refund. The holiday was available for them to take, but they chose not 
to take it. In short Mr A said we will book this holiday  and T said it is arranged and available 
for you. Mr A and Miss B decided not to take it after reading reviews. 
Written cancellation was made after the required time and so the sum they agreed  to pay is 
due. I appreciate they made the booking by phone, but it doesnt follow that T was obliged  to 
accept a cancellation by phone. 
As for misrepresentation  Mr A made  the initial complaints to both T and Capital One and 
said it was he who made the booking and it was he who made the call. More recently Miss B 
says she was also present and party  to the call. Regardless of who was present I have seen 
no evidence, other  than the assertions  made by Miss B, which allows  me to conclude the 
hotel was misrepresented. It was allegedly sold on the basis  it was similar to another  
unnamed hotel Mr A wished to book. 
I regret that isnt sufficient to allow me to conclude there was misrepresentation. Miss B has 
said the hotel  was a three  star as opposed to the four star one they wanted.  It is possible for 
hotels with different  star ratings to be similar. On that basis alone I cannot say there  was 
misrepresentation. 
It is unfortunate we do not have the call recording,  but based  on the information provided I 
cannot conclude  this complaint should  be upheld. Finally, I cannot hold Capital One 
responsible for the any failure of T to supply  a recording. 
Ref: DRN84128943my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept  or reject my decision before 
16 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8412894