K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that esure  Insurance  Limited  (esure) settled a claim under her motor  policy  
for less than her car was worth.
background
Miss K was involved in an accident  that resulted in her car being  written off. Esure settled 
the claim for £5,698 minus her policy excess of £450. The valuation  was based on the 
average of three trade guides  and esure  made a deduction of £359 for non- accident related  
damage.
The policy contains  the following term:
Damage to your car Section 2
What is covered
All loss and damage to your car unless its by fire, lightening, explosion, theft or 
attempted theft.  We will:
 
 
 pay to settle your claim.
Things you need  to know
 
 
 
 We wont pay more  than the market value  of your car at the time of the loss, less 
the total excess payable.
The policy defines  the market value as follows:
market value - The market value is the amount you could  reasonably  have expected 
to sell your car for on the open  market immediately before your accident  or loss. Our 
assessment of the value is based  on cars of the same make  and model  and of a 
similar age, condition and mileage at the time of accident or loss. This value is based  
on research from motor  trade guides  including: Glasss,  Parkers and CAP. This may 
not be the price  you paid when you purchased the car.
Miss K said she thought  esures approved repairer  caused the damage when the car was 
being inspected  and so it shouldnt make  a deduction for this. She also didnt  think  the 
valuation esure  had offered was a fair one, so she complained  to it.
esure explained how it had reached the valuation and didnt increase it. 
Miss K remained unhappy and so brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, he said that he felt the evidence  provided 
supported that there was non-accident related damage on the car and esure hadnt acted 
unfairly in making  a deduction for it. He also said he felt the valuation  esure  had placed on 
Ref: DRN85693062the car was a fair one. Miss K didnt agree and so the matter has been passed to me to 
decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful consideration 
to all of the submissions made before  arriving  at my decision.
Deductions for damage
We think its fair for an insurer to make  a deduction  from the settlement  of a total loss claim 
for non-accident related  damage.  Our general approach to this is that we think  an insurer 
should calculate the cost of having  that damage repaired and then it can deduct 50% of that 
cost from the settlement.
esure has provided an estimate  from the approved repairer showing the repair cost for this 
damage wouldve  been £717.16.  It made a deduction of £359 from the value of the car for 
non-accident related damage, this was described  as:
Off side rear side panel  dented  and scratched
Near side front bumper corner scraped
Miss K provided some photos of her car from after the accident but before it went to the 
approved repairer  for inspection. She believes they show the damage wasnt  there at the 
time the photos  were taken.
I have looked  at these photos  and can see the damage to the near side front bumper as 
described, so I cant agree that this was caused by the approved repairer.  
There isnt a photo of the off side rear panel for me to make a comparison so Ive had to 
think about this a bit differently. The damage  was mentioned in the initial  report from the 
approved repairer  to esure and I cant see that it had anything to gain by including  this as it 
would never  have been something esure wouldve  authorised it to repair, if the car hadnt 
been written off. So on balance Im satisfied that its likely the damage was pre-existing and 
not related to the accident. So I dont agree esure  has acted unfairly  in making the deduction 
and I wont be asking  to change this.
Valuation
My role is not to value  Miss Ks car but to make sure esure has settled her claim fairly  and in 
line with her policy.
Ref: DRN85693063Our approach to assessing a fair market value  takes into account  what  the motor trade 
guides say the market  value is. The guides  we use give a good  reflection  of the true market  
value of a vehicle.
Our investigator carried out checks on the trade guides and they returned values of: Parkers 
£5,265; CAP £5,984; Glasss £6,130 and Cazana £6,693.
As esures  valuation is within the range of the valuations listed, Im satisfied it has placed a 
fair valuation  on Miss Ks car. It follows that I wont be asking  esure to increase  the value it 
placed on Miss Ks car.
I know Miss K will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we can do for her in trying to resolve  her dispute  with esure.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8569306