K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained about a regular savings  investment plan he took out with Standard  Life 
Assurance Limited. He feels the plan was mis-sold because at maturity he didnt receive  
what he was quoted in the illustrations.
background
Mr R met with an adviser in June  1993. He wanted  to invest  regularly into a savings and 
investment plan for a lump sum that could  be used in the future.
The plan he was recommended had a term of twenty-five years  and contained an element of 
life cover which provided a sum assured of just under £6,000. Mr R paid in £25 a month  
regularly and at maturity he received just over £11,000.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  He 
explained that performance of the plan alone couldnt be looked into but he did consider 
whether the plan was suitable  for Mr R and whether it met his needs at the time of the sale.  
Despite the lack of point  of sale documentation  he felt it was.
Mr R didnt agree with the assessment  and remained of the view the plan had been  mis-sold. 
He also added that he wasnt told at the point the plan was sold that the adviser  could only 
sell products from Standard Life.
While the investigator considered Mr Rs additional points he wasnt persuaded to change  
his initial  outcome. So as no agreement could  be reached, the complaint  has been passed  to 
me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Given how long ago Mr R took out the plan very little paperwork has been found. This 
includes the fact find which  would have been completed at the time the plan was sold and 
the suitability letter which would have set out why this plan was suitable for Mr R. This isnt 
unusual but it does make knowing  exactly what was discussed at the time the plan was 
taken a bit more difficult. Therefore, in a situation like this, I need  to make my decision based 
on what information has been provided  and on the basis of what I think from that evidence is 
more likely to have  happened.
Mr R has agreed  that when he met with the adviser  his intention was to take out a regular 
investment savings plan.  So in this respect this plan met this need. 
I dont know Mr Rs personal  and financial circumstances at the time he took out the plan but 
given he kept the plan in place for the full length  of the term I can only assume  it was 
affordable for him. 
Ive also looked  at how the money  in the plan was invested. I can see it was invested  in a 
with profits  fund, so while I dont know what investment experience  Mr R had, a with profits  
fund represented  a lower level of risk and one I would say was suitable  for a novice investor. 
Ref: DRN80609872Any higher  level of risk could have jeopardised the plan making  any growth thereby negating 
the point of taking the plan out. In addition to this, Mr R has said he was young and nave 
at the time so I think this supports the fact that this type of plan and the level of risk posed by 
it was suitable  for him.
I know Mr R feels  the plan was mis-sold  because  he says he was assured that he would 
double the money  he invested and would make return as the illustrations quoted. But I have 
seen nothing from either party to confirm this was the case. So I cant safely conclude that 
Mr R was given this assurance.  Also,  the illustrations were just representations of what  
growth could be made had certain  markets performed at a certain  level.  But the markets are 
always fluctuating  on a daily basis. This is, after all, the fundamentals of any investment and 
despite Mr R being inexperienced I think he would  have known this at the time he took the 
plan out. I also know the illustrations stated the growth figures  were  not guaranteed  so again 
I think Mr R would have known at the time of taking the plan that nothing was guaranteed.
I appreciate Mr R says the adviser didnt tell him that he could only sell Standard Life 
products but without  the paperwork I cant verify whether this was covered or not by the 
advice. But given this plan met Mr Rs needs  at the time and also the fact he wouldnt have 
received a guarantee from any other provider about the levels  of growth, I dont think this 
fact would have  made  a difference  to him taking out the plan.
Overall, therefore, I appreciate that not having the point  of sale documentation  does muddy  
the waters slightly, but given what I have seen and what Mr R has said in making this 
complaint I cant conclude the plan was mis-sold. I think it met with Mr Rs objectives at the 
time of the sale and I think it was invested in a fund which was suitable  for Mr R at the time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060987