K820x#14Complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  and closed his account. He says 
Barclays actions meant  he wasnt able to access any money whilst he was overseas which 
caused him trouble and upset. He wants Barclays to apologise and pay him compensation. 
Background
Mr B had a basic account with Barclays.
On 6 March 2019,  Barclays reviewed Mr Bs account and blocked his access  to just over 
£1,300 which was in his account. Barclays removed the money  and placed  it into a sundry 
account. Whilst Barclays completed its review Mr B was still able to use his account to 
receive and make payments. However,  the removal of the funds left only a small balance  in 
the account.
Barclays completed its review and returned Mr Bs funds to his account on 18 March 2019.  
Following its review Barclays  decided to close Mr Bs account. And it wrote to him to give 
him 60 days notice to make alternative banking arrangements.
Mr B says the block to his funds caused  him a great deal of stress and inconvenience. He 
has explained that the on the day Barclays removed the money  from his account he was 
travelling overseas for a holiday. And discovered  he had very little money  in his account 
whilst he was at the airport  waiting to fly out of the UK and checked his account.  He says he 
was completely shocked and contacted Barclays  straight  away.  But the bank wouldnt give 
him any information.
Mr B has told our investigator that Barclays actions ruined his holiday. And he was left 
without enough  money to pay for his hotel  accommodation. So, he had to ask friends and 
relatives to lend him money, which was stressful and embarrassing. Mr B says he spent 
most of his holiday on the phone to Barclays trying to sort things out. And the bank didnt call 
him back when it had promised. He wants Barclays to apologise for the distress he suffered 
and compensate him for the cost of his holiday.
Mr B complained to the bank. Barclays said it hadnt  done anything wrong. And it had 
blocked and then closed Mr Bs account in line with the account terms and conditions.  Mr B 
wasnt happy with this response. So, he brought his complaint to us.
An investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint.  She said Barclays  hadnt done  anything wrong 
when it blocked  and closed Mr Bs account. And she couldnt find any evidence that Barclays 
had provided Mr B with poor service when  he called to discuss things.  Mr B disagreed. Hes 
still upset by what happened and feels that Barclays didnt consider that he was overseas 
without access to any money. He wants Barclays to compensate him for ruining his holiday.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
Ref: DRN85629702My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Mr B has told us and the bank that he feels very strongly about his 
complaint. I appreciate hes upset that Barclays blocked his access to his funds. And that this 
has caused him inconvenience.  But for me to uphold this complaint, I must  be satisfied that 
the bank has done something  wrong.  And in this case, I dont think  it has. Ill explain why. 
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing business  relationship. That sometimes means banks  need  to restrict customers  
accounts and ask for information about the money  going in and out of those accounts. Barclays  
has said that Mr Bs access to his account was blocked to meet these legal  requirements.
The timing  of Barclays actions was unfortunate. Mr B was going on holiday and wanted to be 
able to use the money in his account to fund his trip. I appreciate Mr B was concerned  for his 
safety in an unfamiliar country and feared he would be unable  to pay for accommodation.  And 
that he had to borrow money  from friends,  which would have been embarrassing for him. So, I 
understand why he found this experience with Barclays stressful  and upsetting. And why he 
wants Barclays to pay him compensation. But in order  to make an award  against  Barclays,  I 
would have to be satisfied that the bank has acted unfairly. And I dont think  it has. 
As Ive already  explained businesses have  a legal obligation to comply  with various laws and 
regulations. Having looked at whats happened in this case,  Im satisfied that the bank  was 
complying with its legal and regulatory  obligations when it blocked Mr Bs account. So, I cant  
say it has done  anything wrong.  The terms and conditions of Mr Bs accounts  also permit 
Barclays to block an account. Having considered those  terms, Im satisfied Barclays acted in 
line with them. So, I dont  think  Barclays has treated Mr B unfairly when it blocked his access  
to his funds. Ive also kept in mind that Mr B paid for his hotel accommodation using his 
credit card. So, it seems  he wasnt without  accommodation. And he was able to access 
funds which  came into his account after 6 March  2019.
I know Mr B is frustrated  that he hasnt been  given a proper explanation why his account 
was blocked and then closed.  But under the terms and conditions Barclays doesnt  have to 
give a reason. So, I cant say Barclays has done  anything wrong by not giving Mr B this 
information as much hed like to know. 
Mr B says he spent his holiday having  to call Barclays  to find out what was happening with 
account. And Barclays didnt call him back when it had promised. All of which he says 
caused him inconvenience and meant  he had to cut his holiday short.  Mr B also says that 
when he called Barclays the staff, he spoke to on the phone accused  him of lying about 
being overseas  and was unhelpful.  
Ive listened to the available calls Mr B had with Barclays on 8 March 2019, and I cant say 
the call handlers  were rude, dismissive or unhelpful  to him. On the contrary, I found that they 
were polite, listened to Mr B and tried to be helpful in suggesting solutions to the issues  hed 
raised. However, its clear  from the call that there is some misunderstanding  about when 
Mr B was due to return to the UK and when hed be settling his hotel bill. And this led Mr B to 
ask the advisor  whether he was being accused  of lying. But the advisor quickly clarified  that 
this wasnt the case. And had simply misunderstood  what Mr B was saying. 
Ref: DRN85629703I know Mr B says that some  of his direct debits  werent paid. But from looking at his account 
statements I cant see that any payments werent made from his account after 6 March  2019. 
And as Ive already said, his account  was operating normally  money  was coming  in and 
going out. It was just his access to the removed funds which was blocked  by Barclays.  So, I 
cant say Mr Bs payments werent  being made.  
Following its review Barclays  decided to close Mr Bs account. Under the terms and 
conditions Barclays could  close  Mr Bs accounts  by giving him 60 days notice. And it wasnt  
required to give Mr B a reason. So, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by not 
providing this information  to him.   
Ive also seen a copy of a letter Barclays sent to Mr B dated  1 March 2019,  which  informed 
him it would be closing his account in July 2019  within 60 days. As Mr B had a basic  
account, Ive also considered the Payment Regulations 2015, which set out when a bank 
can close a basic bank  account.  Having looked at the circumstances of Mr B, Im satisfied 
that Barclays has complied with the terms and conditions of the account. And acted in 
accordance with the Payment Regulations.  So, its entitled to close the accounts as it has 
already done.
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr B feels about whats happened,  and I dont doubt  it 
was a frustrating  and worrying time. So, I realise  Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. 
But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays  have acted unreasonably 
and treated Mr B unfairly when it blocked  and closed his account. So, Im not going to ask 
them to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8562970