K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains Covea Insurance plc has unfairly  declined her claim for an escape of water 
under her buildings  insurance policy. 
background
In July 2018 Mrs S contacted Covea to report shed been having  issues  with the local water 
board and an underground pipe.  It later confirmed there had been  a leak from a pipe 
underneath Mrs S house. She made  a claim to Covea for the damage  caused to her home 
as a result  of the leak. 
Mrs S said the hallway and living room of the property were suffering damp as a result of the 
water under her floorboards. She also said the stair-lift  in her property wasnt  working  
properly as a result of the damp.  Covea  agreed to provide alternative  accommodation  to   
Mrs S whilst it investigated  the cause of the damage. It also paid for her pet to be boarded in 
a kennel. 
Covea had several contractors carry out reports on the property. And in September  2018  it 
declined the claim. It said the damage had occurred gradually over time, so it was excluded 
under the policy.  It also said it couldnt  see that the damp had affected the stair-lift, and the 
issues with it were  more likely  to be a servicing  issue. Covea stopped paying for Mrs S 
alternative accommodation and kennel fees when it declined the claim at the start of 
September. 
Mrs S complained to Covea. She said it was the leak that had caused any issues  with damp.  
Our investigator didnt  think Covea  had done enough to show  it could  rely on the exclusion 
that the damage had happened gradually over time. He said many of Coveas own reports  
contradicted each other and he thought it was more likely the damage had been caused by a 
leak from the pipe.  He noted there was also damage  to Mrs S kitchen, but thought it was 
reasonable this wasnt  covered as he didnt  think it was likely the leak was the cause of that 
damage.
He said Covea should:
deal with the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and carry out the necessary 
repair works to Mrs S property;
cover  Mrs S alternative accommodation costs, as well as the kennel fees after 
September 2018;
refund  the additional utility costs of £2,099  Mrs S has paid due to having to rent an 
alternative property;
pay additional petrol costs incurred by Mrs S as a result  of being in alternative 
accommodation far away from her home, subject to receipts  being  provided;
pay £750 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience caused to Mrs S whilst 
shes been living in alternative accommodation.  
Mrs S agreed with what the investigator said, but Covea didnt. Because  Covea didnt agree 
the matter has come  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN88029532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
When making a claim on an insurance policy, it is for the policyholder (so in this case  Mrs S) 
to demonstrate that the damage  is as a result of an insured event. If she can do so, Covea 
must show it can rely on a valid exclusion if it decides to decline  the claim. 
Having looked  at the reports and the information  from the water  board, Im satisfied that a 
leak happened. The water  board has confirmed repairs were carried  out to a sewer  in front 
of Mrs S property. And the report from Coveas loss adjuster says it is satisfied Mrs S has a 
valid escape of water claim. Its not clear  whether  Covea dispute that an insured event 
occurred, but based  on what Ive seen  Im satisfied that there  was. 
Ive then considered  whether the damage has been  caused by the escape of water.  Having 
looked at the reports  and what  Mrs S has said, I think  its more likely that it was. Coveas 
own report from its loss adjuster says the floorboards are damaged and have become 
warped by the substantial amount of water in the floor void beneath the living  room  and 
hallway. Mrs S has said this has caused the floor in the middle of the living  room  to drop, 
and shes provided  video footage to support this. This seems consistent  with damage 
caused by a large amount  of water under the floor. And given  the damage has occurred in 
the rooms above where  the leak has occurred, I think its most likely  this is the cause of the 
damage.
So because an insured event has happened  which has caused  damage, Covea can only 
decline the claim if it can rely on a valid exclusion.
Covea hasnt explained why it disagrees with the findings in the above loss adjusters report. 
But its sought to rely on other reports to decline the claim and say the leak was not the 
cause of the damage. There are several reports it has relied on; I havent  commented on 
them in turn, Ive instead focussed  on the reasons they dont persuade me Covea can 
decline the claim by relying on the gradual  damage  exclusion. 
A moisture survey report Covea has relied  on said there was an air vent under the stairs in 
Mrs S property.  It says we can only presume this is to remedy some  damp  issues. But Im 
not persuaded by this report for two reasons. It says there is no evidence  of any water  in the 
floor void.  This is despite the survey being  undertaken within  days  of the loss adjusters 
report, which said there was water  under  the floor. It also doesnt detail what investigations it 
had undertaken  to determine any pre-existing damp  issues, or why it thinks this is most likely 
the cause of the damage.
Covea has also relied on comments  from the water  board to say the damp isnt connected to 
the leak. Ive listened  to the phone call between it and the water board. Covea asked the 
engineer if in his opinion  the issue is rising damp. The engineer  confirmed that it was. But he 
is also later overheard on the call saying he didnt know what  had caused the damp. There  is 
no report following this conversation and Im not persuaded the engineer was suitably 
qualified to comment on the cause of the internal damage to the property.
Ref: DRN88029533Finally, Covea had a follow up report carried out in March 2019, following our investigators 
opinion. The findings of that report were  that there are some issues  with rising  damp. The 
report concludes that the extent of the damage  suggests the leak happened before the 
policy was taken out, so it recommends the claim being declined for pre-inception  damage .
The findings  in this report are similar  to comments made by Coveas loss adjuster.  Having 
spoken to the engineer who carried out the moisture survey, the loss adjuster said:
we agreed the wet plaster walls  to the hall and internal side of the lounge were due 
to the water  damage  [from  the drain] we also considered it is possible the damp to 
the hall and side wall of the house is long term as the drain may have been leaking 
for some time before the issue was discovered
Its not clear whether  Covea think the damage  from the leaking drain had happened over 
time, rather than because of a one-off  insured event  and this is why theyve declined  the 
claim. But if it is, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Covea to rely on this to apply the 
exclusion. 
Our general  approach in complaints such as these  is to say that an insurer  cant  fairly refuse 
a claim for damage that has occurred over time,  if the policyholder couldnt have been 
reasonably aware  that damage  caused  by an insured event  was occurring. In this case, the 
leak was happening from a drain  concealed under Mrs S house into the floor void beneath it. 
So I dont  think its likely  shed have been aware of the problem, until she noticed damp in 
her hallway. And Im satisfied that she raised  the issue with Covea as soon as she noticed  
this. I say this as she started  making  enquiries  with the water board before she contacted  the 
insurance company  in July 2018.  No one has been  able to determine how long the leak had 
been there for, but as Im satisfied Mrs S wouldnt  have been aware of it, it wouldnt be fair 
for Covea  to decline the claim for gradually  occurring  damage.
Overall for the reasons  given above  I find Covea hasnt done enough to say it can fairly rely 
on the gradual damage exclusion to decline the claim. And because it cant  do so, it needs to 
deal with the claim for damage to Mrs S hallway and living room in line with the remaining 
policy terms. I appreciate Ms S has said her stair lift now isnt working  as a result of the 
damp. Covea has said it doesnt think the damage  has been caused by the damp. Mrs S 
hasnt shown why she thinks the damage has been caused by the leak. So unless shes able 
to do so, I dont think Covea needs to carry out any repairs to this as part of covering the 
claim. 
Covea should  also reimburse Mrs S the costs shes paid for alternative accommodation and 
the kennel fees after September  2018. Ive noted  that Mrs S property does have cooking 
and sanitary functions.  But given the extent of the damage to the downstairs, and the serious 
health conditions  suffered  by Mrs S husband,  Im satisfied it was reasonable for them  to not 
live in the property  during  this time.  Ive also considered that as a wheelchair user Mrs S 
would have found it difficult to get around the downstairs of the property with uneven 
flooring. So it follows  that Covea should cover the cost of alternative accommodation whilst 
the repair works are carried  out. Covea should also cover the additional utility costs she has 
incurred as a result of having to rent an alternative  property. 
Ref: DRN88029534Ms S has said shes had to pay council  tax at the property  shes  been staying at, which  has 
cost £1,099 over the last seven months. The rental  property didnt have any laundry  facilities 
so shes also spent  £400 on laundry costs. And shes spent an additional £600 on gas and 
electricity during this period, as she wasnt able to benefit from the fuel allowances she 
receives for her property. These  costs  all seem  reasonable  given the circumstances Mrs S 
has found herself in, so Covea should  reimburse the total cost of £2,099.
Ms S has also said shes had increased petrol  costs  as a result of having to rent a property 
that is further away from the hospital which she visits frequently.  Shes estimated the 
additional petrol has cost her £1,040.  Ms S is only entitled to petrol costs  that are over and 
above what she would have paid in petrol in any event. So Covea should  consider this part 
of the claim, upon receiving Mrs S receipts for petrol costs.
I consider being  out of her own property  has caused Mrs S unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience. So Covea  also needs  to pay Mrs S £750 for this. Mrs S and her husband 
have numerous  health issues and have  been caused distress  by having to move out of their 
home for a substantial  amount  of time.  Paying for alternative accommodation has caused 
strain on their finances, as well as having  to use a launderette to clean her clothes. Mrs S is 
a wheelchair user and so it has been difficult for her to find a suitable  property to move in to. 
I think all of this has caused a great deal of unnecessary distress.
Ref: DRN88029535my final decision
My final decision is that I direct Covea Insurance plc to:
1.deal with the claim in line with the rest of the policy and to draw up a schedule  of 
works to restore Mrs Ss property;
2.arrange for Mrs S to be put into alternative  accommodation whilst  the repairs are 
carried out;
3.cover  the cost of Mrs Ss alternative accommodation she has been paying since 
September 2018; 
4.pay kennel costs  incurred for Mrs Ss dog since September 2018 as the policy 
wouldve provided cover for her pets as part of alternative accommodation; 
5.pay £2,099  for the additional utility  costs incurred  by Mrs S that are above what 
she wouldve ordinarily incurred if she was at home;
6.pay interest on the above  amounts  3,4 and 5 at 8% simple  interest per year,  from 
the date she paid for the services to the date of settlement*; 
7.pay Mrs S £750.00 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  she has 
suffered.
Covea Insurance  plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mrs S accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Covea Insurance  Plc deducts  income  
tax from the interest  it should tell Mrs S how much has been taken off. Covea Insurance  plc 
should give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8802953