K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that a finance agreement she entered into with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited (VWFS)  was mis-sold  to her.
background
Mrs B took receipt of a used car in January 2016. She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. 
She said she was encouraged to part exchange her old car and take out a new agreement  
for this vehicle as she was informed that although the car was newer it was a lower 
specification and would attract a lower monthly repayment. But after she entered  into the 
agreement she was shocked to find it had been  set up with a mileage limit of only 5,000 
miles per year when shed assumed it would be for 15,000 as that was what  her previous 
agreement had been for.
She complained to VWFS but they rejected her complaint.  They explained that shed  signed  
the hire purchase  agreement and the adequate explanation document  to say she accepted 
the terms and that these  terms provided  for a maximum annual mileage of 5,000 and not 
15,000 miles. 
So Mrs B referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  her view. She 
agreed with VWFSs comments and didnt  support  Mrs Bs complaint for the same reasons 
theyd stated. She also noted that Mrs B had been given several days to read the information 
provided in the agreement  before it went live and she didnt think  there was reason to ask 
VWFS to take any further action.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator and she therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs B acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.
Ref: DRN80782072The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  not have been  mis-sold. If it 
was, and if I thought  Mrs B would not have  proceeded with the agreement  if it hadnt been 
for the mis-sale, then Id think it fair to tell VWFS to take some action.
I have seen copies  of the finance agreement and the adequate explanation document.  The 
finance agreement  clearly states on the front page that the annual  mileage is 5,000 and 
explains the charges  that will be applied if the mileage is exceeded. The adequate 
explanation document confirms that Mrs B has had an opportunity to ask any questions; that 
she understands the terms; and that the features of the agreement have been explained to 
her. Both documents are signed  by Mrs B and I think its reasonable to expect that she read 
them prior to the agreement going  live. 
I understand that Mrs B has explained that she simply wanted her previous agreement,  
which she says had a 15,000 mile annual  limit, to be extended, and that it would therefore 
make no sense to set up an agreement with a lower mileage. But an agreement  with a lower  
annual mileage would reduce the monthly  instalments and a customer  who wanted to take 
ownership of the car at the end of the agreement would not be hindered by having to pay 
excess mileage charges. So there are reasons why consumers would want  to enter into an 
agreement with a lower mileage limit.
Taking all the available evidence in to account  I dont think I have sufficient evidence that 
when Mrs B entered into this agreement she was misinformed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8078207