K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service hes received from Fairstone Financial Management 
Limited (Fairstone).
background
Mr Hs complaint has been considered by one of our adjudicators. She issued her view on 
29 November 2019. In it she set out the key events. I havent repeated  all that here but in 
summary:
Mr H had a portfolio with Transact consisting  of a GIA (General Investment Account), ISA 
(Individual Savings  Account) and a SIPP (self invested personal  pension). He met with his 
existing financial adviser on 19 April 2018. During the meeting, it was discussed that he 
wanted to organise  a Bed and ISA switch from the GIA and the ISA to take advantage of 
the tax wrapper. His requirement of a net annual income of £50,000 and the most tax 
efficient way to generate  this was also discussed.  Mr H was also told that his existing 
advisers were going through a partnership arrangement with Fairstone.  Mr H signed a new 
client agreement.  A report was to be sent about the Bed and ISA switch and a cashflow 
model to produce  the increased  income. 
By 9 May 2018 that hadnt been  provided.  When Mr H asked about  the advice to produce 
the £50,000 income, the adviser  referred  to teething issues  with the new partnership  
systems and processes  which  had created a backlog. 
The reports  were sent by post to Mr H on 21 May 2018. The Bed and ISA report was resent 
by email on 5 July 2018. On 24 July 2018  the adviser asked Mr H if he was ready  to proceed 
with the Bed and ISA. Mr H replied that he hadnt had a good  look at the reports. There  was 
an email exchange  about potential withdrawals  from the portfolio. Mr H returned the 
agreement for the Bed and ISA on 29 July 2018 and for the income  provision on 15 August 
2018.
Mr H later became concerned about a drop in the value of his portfolio. In an email to the 
adviser sent on 30 November 2018  he said that, taking into account the contributions  hed 
made to the pension,  the value had dropped  £15,000 in two months. 
The adviser responded on the same day with cash flow models  for three separate scenarios. 
Amongst other things the adviser said that short term market volatility  could be scary, but 
the portfolio should be viewed as medium to long term. He didnt recommend that Mr H 
convert all of his holdings to cash. But, if Mr H had decided  he no longer wished to take any 
capital risk, hed need to provide a clear instruction to that effect. A strategy could then be 
devised, avoiding  undue  costs or taxation where  possible. 
Mr H emailed the adviser on 3 December  2018 instructing him to convert  the ISA and GIA to 
cash as soon as possible. Mr H said he understood that would mean  the conversion would 
be valued as at 16:00 the following day as long as instructions to Transact were given by 
13.00 the following day. Mr H asked the adviser to let him know if that wasnt the case or 
couldnt be achieved  so he could give instructions direct. 
The adviser replied  the same day. He confirmed  there could be capital gains tax 
implications. He gave  options to potentially  mitigate that. He wanted to confirm that the 
instructions were in respect of the GIA and ISA only and didnt apply to the SIPP.  
Ref: DRN85526542Mr H responded on 3 December 2018  (at 18:36) saying to totally  encash the GIA with the 
funds to be paid into his bank account.  The ISA was to be within  the tax wrapper but held in 
cash. He said he wanted it actioned the next day so values at 16:00  should be the basis  of 
the transactions.
The adviser confirmed  the actions the next day. And that the ISA was detached from the 
portfolio so that it would  not be re-invested  at the next rebalancing point. As to the timing the 
adviser told Mr H that the deal requests  had been  placed and would be dealt with by the 
fund managers  at that days dealing  point, which was different for each fund manager and 
ranged from midday to 2pm for the majority of investment houses. He added that as 
Transact had a large amount of funds under management, it had negotiated with the 
managers that the deals  will all take place  at 2pm but that they achieve todays price .
On 11 December 2018 Mr H enquired  again  about the timing of the transaction. He said 
Transact had advised  it was the price which applied the day after instructions are received,  
not as at 2.00 pm on the day of receipt.  The instructions were batched up at 2.00 pm on the 
day of receipt and then sent to the market, but trades were made at the prices applying  on 
the next day. 
Mr H emailed the adviser on 13 December 2018, asking for the £93,000 in the ISA to be paid 
to him as he considered that there was no point  in paying charges for funds held in cash. He 
also indicated that he was thinking about taking the 25% tax free cash from the SIPP.  In 
reply, the adviser  pointed  out that, if Mr H withdrew the cash  from the ISA wrapper, hed lose 
the tax benefits.  He could achieve his objectives  without losing the tax efficiency by 
transferring to a Cash ISA. A provider was later suggested. 
On 14 December 2018 Mr H asked the adviser if hed instructed the sale of sufficient  funds 
so that he could withdraw the 25% tax free cash from the SIPP.  The adviser responded and 
referred to his earlier email. He said he hadnt placed any instructions to disinvest, which 
would be against  his advice. He said that hed need  a signed report from Mr H confirming he 
understood the negative implications of taking  retirement benefits unnecessarily. 
There were further email exchanges.  On 18 December 2018  Mr H told the adviser  that hed 
decided to take the 25% tax free cash.  Mr H wanted  to do that as soon as possible  he 
referred to values dropping rapidly.  He queried if it would be quicker for him to instruct 
Transact direct.
The adviser emailed  Mr H on 19 December  2019 saying he recommended that Fairstone 
resign as Mr Hs advisers and inform  Transact  of that immediately  so that Transact  could 
convert Mr Hs account to execution only so he could instruct them direct and without any 
requirement for adviser intervention or sign off.
Mr H complained to Fairstone on 3 January 2019.  It didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr H 
referred it to us. As Ive mentioned above, one of our adjudicators considered it. She didnt 
uphold it. Again Ive summarised what she said:
Following the annual review meeting in April 2018 Mr H reminded the adviser  (on 9 
May 2018) that the report was outstanding.  The adviser acknowledged Mr Hs email 
promptly and explained the reason for the delay. The report  was sent to Mr H by post 
on 21 May 2018. It could  have been  sent by email. But Mr Hs funds remained 
invested throughout so there  was no investment  loss. 
Ref: DRN85526543The report was sent again by email  on 5 July 2018. Mr H didnt read it immediately 
and didnt return his signed agreement until some two weeks later. That didnt 
suggest it was urgent.  
It seems  there was some  confusion about  Mr Hs income requirement. He wanted  
ad hoc lump sum income and the adviser  thought the income was required monthly. 
But that hadnt caused any inconvenience  as Mr H wasnt relying on a monthly  
income.
The adjudicator  didnt find any evidence to support what Mr H had said about  the 
adviser having agreed to proactively monitor the portfolio and advise of any market 
fluctuations. Fairstone wasnt a discretionary fund manager. Mr H was disappointed 
with performance but, given the longer term nature of the investments, fluctuations in 
fund values could  be expected. 
Mr H instructed the encashment of his GIA and ISA on 3 December 2018 at 18:36. 
This was after normal  working hours so it would be actioned on the next working day. 
Fairstone instructed Transact  the next day, 4 December 2018, and the deals were 
placed at the first dealing point after Mr Hs instructions were received. There  was no 
delay in acting  on Mr Hs instructions.  And Mr H had agreed that he hadnt suffered 
any financial loss. 
The adjudicator  considered what had happened  following Mr Hs email  of 13 
December 2018 about taking the 25% tax free cash from his SIPP.  The adviser  had 
suggested moving funds to cash within  the SIPP. Mr H was concerned hed be 
charged fees for holding cash and so hed lose money. And it seemed he was 
reluctant to wait for the advisers  formal recommendation. The adviser explained the 
situation in his email  of 19 December 2018  which, given the circumstances,  the 
adjudicator thought  was the best thing to do. 
The adjudicator  added  that Fairstone  are financial advisers  and she wouldnt expect 
them to take orders from customers. Fairstone charged a fee to provide  a service 
and recommendations. The adviser didnt think taking the tax free lump sum was in 
Mr Hs best interests.  His relationship and agreement with Fairstone werent on an 
insistent client or execution only basis. 
The signed client agreement  didnt  require the adviser to give notice of resignation. 
And immediate resignation was in Mr Hs best interests  otherwise hed have had to 
wait until a report was produced. 
Mr H had said some of what Fairstone had said in its final response  letter  was 
offensive. Although  the adjudicator didnt agree shed asked Fairstone to issue  a 
letter of apology.
Fairstone accepted the adjudicators view and said it would send an apology. Ive seen  the 
letter Fairstone sent to Mr H on 3 December 2019 in which  Fairstone apologised 
unreservedly for any unintended  offence  its letter of 28 February 2019 may have caused. 
Mr H wasnt happy with adjudicators view. He said he definitely remembered  checking in the 
annual meetings that the adviser  reviewed fund performance and would  make  Mr H aware if 
values dropped. It wasnt helpful  that meetings werent minuted or a summary  provided. He 
queried if, at age 65, investments could  be considered long term. Pensions should  be 
reviewed with a view to taking cash from them. Hed taken  three pensions  at age 60. He 
added that he was amazed the adjudicator had said that advisers  dont take orders or 
instructions from clients. And he thought the client agreement did contain a clause requiring 
Fairstone to give notice  of resignation.
The adjudicator considered what Mr H had said but she wasnt  persuaded to change  her 
view. She maintained Mr Hs agreement  with Fairstone didnt require it to proactively monitor  
Ref: DRN85526544his portfolio. Although Mr H was 65, pensions  were longer term investments and expected  to 
last the investors  lifetime.  What Mr H was requesting had wider implications and as advisers 
Fairstone needed  to consider that before recommending  that Mr H take his tax free cash. It 
seemed Mr H didnt want to wait until Fairstones recommendation report  was produced. And 
Transact wouldnt have  taken instructions direct from Mr H. So she still thought  Fairstone 
had acted in Mr Hs best interests by resigning. 
In response Mr H expressed unhappiness about being given a deadline  for response, given 
the time taken to look into his complaint. He maintained hed been led to believe his funds 
were being  monitored. And it was reasonable, given his age, for his adviser  to start to 
consider how Mr H could  start to withdraw  money from his pension.  This was discussed  but 
without meeting minutes that couldnt  be proved.  Withdrawing investment funds should be 
further considered  when  the markets are in decline.  The value of his SIPP  hadnt increased,  
after contributions had been  taken  into account. 
Prior to becoming part of Fairstone, Mr Hs adviser had said that money could be available  
from the SIPP in approximately seven days.  He was therefore  surprised to be told in 
December 2018  that the report could take months.  When he reminded  Fairstone  of what 
hed previously been told, Fairstone responded saying  things  had changed.
  
As regards  the notice  period, the appendix  of the agreement he signed  on 19 April 2018 
clearly states that one months notice would  be given  by Fairstone under the heading  
Ending our authority  to act for you. Leaving him high  and dry in a state of ignorance wasnt 
in his best interests. Mr H also referred to the regulator (but I think he meant this service) 
applying titles that a consumer couldnt be expected to understand and taking the part of 
advisers against the consumer and when minutes of meetings  should have been taken and 
distributed to the relevant parties. He felt there was pressure put on consumers by imposing 
deadlines, especially  over holiday periods  when  it would be difficult  to get professional 
advice within  the time given. 
The adjudicator clarified the difference between this service and the regulator. She wrote to 
Mr H saying that an ombudsman would review the complaint and make a final decision.  She 
explained that if the ombudsmans  conclusions were different,  he or she would explain why 
and give an opportunity to reply  before  giving  a decision. She asked  Mr H for any further  
comments he wanted the ombudsman to consider by 7 February  2019.  That was later 
extended, at Mr Hs request to 7 March 2019 but we didnt receive any further comments.  
As agreement wasnt reached  the complaint has been referred to me. Im sorry that its taken 
longer than wed have liked to reach this stage  of our process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the views 
expressed by the adjudicator and with her reasoning. 
In saying that Ive considered carefully  what Mr H has said in response to the adjudicators  
view and why hes unable  to agree  with her findings. 
Mr H says he understood that Fairstone would monitor his investments, particularly with 
regard to falls in fund values. Although I accept  Mr H believed that was the case, Id need to 
be satisfied that Fairstone agreed to that or indicated to Mr H that was part of the service it 
Ref: DRN85526545was providing to him. I agree  with the adjudicator that sort of level of service would normally  
be bespoke or as part of a discretionary fund management agreement. Id also expect it to 
have been recorded in writing with something said about frequency  and what  level of falls in 
fund values should be flagged up to Mr H.
At the meeting on 19 April 2018  Mr H signed  a services and charges agreement. It said that 
Fairstones standard  retained client service included an initial financial review and annual  
investment valuations. About the latter the agreement said Fairstone would review  and 
comment on the performance of the investments and pensions which we manage  for you 
against agreed benchmarks and confirm they remain  within your agreed risk profile. It didnt 
indicate that monitoring of Mr Hs portfolio had been  agreed. 
I note Mr Hs comments about  meetings not being  minuted  or any summary provided.  I 
agree that, as a matter of good practice and customer service, it is generally helpful for some 
record to be made (although any recommendation letters issued following a meeting will 
usually include a summary of what was discussed as that will form part of the basis  for any 
recommendation).  
Here Ive seen that Fairstone made  a detailed  file note of what  was discussed at the meeting 
on 19 April 2018. It records that Mr Hs investment portfolio  was reviewed and that there was 
what seems to have been a fairly  lengthy discussion about current returns  being less than in 
previous years due to difficult market conditions. Mr H held significant  cash,  having  moved  
30% of his holdings  into cash the previous year due to market  volatility.  Possible future 
reinvestment was discussed and it was agreed  his cash position  would  be reviewed in six 
months time. Theres nothing recorded about  monitoring  Mr Hs portfolio more frequently  or 
in the interim.  
From what  Ive seen I cant say Im satisfied that Fairstone did agree to monitor Mr Hs 
portfolio even if he understood that was going to be the case. 
I recognise that Mr H is disappointed with performance  but that of itself wont  usually be a 
valid cause for complaint.  Mr H hasnt  suggested that the funds werent suitable so it seems 
any falls in value  reflected  market conditions. 
I think the point  the adjudicator was making  about advisers not taking orders  (perhaps more 
properly phrased,  as Mr H has pointed out, as instructions) is that where theres  an advisory 
relationship any recommendations must  be suitable for the client. An adviser is expected  to 
point out the downside of any proposed  action,  including  tax implications. If an adviser 
simply acted on a clients instruction, the client might later complain that the adviser  is 
responsible for any losses sustained  as a result of what was the clients  own decision.  
Depending on the circumstances such a complaint might well be upheld. 
Thats relevant  to what happened in December 2018  when Mr H wanted to take his tax free 
cash from his SIPP. I can to a certain  extent  understand his frustration   it was money hed 
put aside for his retirement and, given  his age, he naturally wanted to access it. And 
especially given his concerns about  falling fund values. But where, as here, an investor has 
other assets,  its part of the advisers job to look at whether any capital or income 
requirements can be met elsewhere,  perhaps on a more tax efficient  basis, and without 
compromising future needs and objectives. I dont think the adviser acted improperly  by 
saying that he wasnt prepared to facilitate Mr Hs withdrawal of his tax free cash  from his 
SIPP without  making a formal recommendation (which it seems  would  have been  that Mr H 
shouldnt access his tax free cash at that time). 
Ref: DRN85526546The services  and charges  agreement Mr H signed on 19 April 2018  says, under the heading, 
Your right to cancel that Fairstone may decide to stop providing  services to the client at any 
time. Theres no mention  of any notice period. And the client  can ask Fairstone to stop 
providing any services at any time. Again no notice period is specified. Id have thought, if 
any notice period by either or both sides was required, it would have been set out there. The 
inclusion of the words at any time suggests no notice is required. Nor does the document 
refer to any appendix.  
I havent investigated the discrepancy between that and the appendix which  Mr H has 
pointed to and which refers to Fairstone having to give a months notice if it wanted to stop 
acting for Mr H. I tend to agree with the adjudicator that Fairstones resignation was a 
pragmatic solution  and an attempt to assist  Mr H in doing what hed decided he wanted to, 
which Fairstone couldnt recommend, and which Mr H regarded as urgent. So, even if there 
was a breach  of the agreement, I dont think Mr H was prejudiced as a result. I think  hed 
have been in the same position of having  to seek advice elsewhere  or act for himself.  
Im sorry  if Mr H felt that some of the terminology weve used  was too technical. As the 
adjudicator pointed out, were an impartial and independent complaints resolution service. 
Well weigh  up what both sides  tell us and come to a decision. The nature of our work means 
that one party is likely  to be disappointed.  
Lastly, Mr H has mentioned possible court proceedings. If he doesnt accept my decision  
then neither he nor Fairstone will be bound by it and hell be free to pursue the matter  by any 
other means  open to him. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8552654