K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP, trading as Uncle  Buck, (UBF), gave him
loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr B took out two loans with UBF and details  of these are shown below. Both loans were
repayable by three monthly instalments. Loan  2 hasnt been repaid and has been sold to a
third party, (T).
Loan number
Date Loan amount
Number of repayments 
and repayment  amountRepayment date
1. 18/10/2015 £100 2 monthly payments of
£43.28 and one monthly  
payment of £42.9027/10/2015
2. 28/12/2015 £200 3 monthly payments of 
around £100.41Unpaid
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B disagreed. He said that if UBF had carried out further checks, they would have
highlighted that he was in financial difficulties and unable to repay  the loans. He had taken
out a significant number  of other  loans  during  the period of UBFs  loans.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to UBF on 22 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I explained that UBF needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Mr B could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that UBF should fairly  and reasonably  have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr B. These factors  include:
-the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
       any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
-the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
       meet a higher repayment from a particular  level of income);
-the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time
       during which a customer  has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated
       refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
       unsustainable).
Ref: DRN86917322I said that there might even come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  
itself clearly demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought that it was important for me to start by saying that UBF was required to establish
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without
borrowing further.
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all meant for Mr Bs complaint.
Id noted that UBF had carried out a credit  check before each loan was granted  and UBF 
had provided us with copies  of its credit checks before each loan.
The credit checks showed that Mr B was taking and repaying a significant number of other
short term loans whilst  he was borrowing from UBF. And from that I thought UBF should 
have concluded  that Mr B was facing major problems  managing  his money.  In these
circumstances, I thought UBF ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr B wouldve been able 
to sustainably repay Loans 1 and 2.
So I intended to uphold the complaint about Loans  1 and 2. Subject to any further 
representations by Mr B or UBF my provisional  decision was that I intended  to uphold this 
complaint. I intended  to order  Uncle  Buck Finance LLP, trading as Uncle Buck,  to:-
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loan 1 and pay 8% simple interest* a
    year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr B has paid on Loan 2, and pay 8% simple
    interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
    As the balance on Loan 2 has been  transferred to a third party  (T), UBF should  also
    refund any unpaid  interest and charges that are included in the outstanding  balance
    on Loan 2 (since  T will expect to collect this money from Mr B).
3. As Loan 2 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr B in full and no
    deductions should be made by UBF. But, if UBF buys Loan 2 back  from T within  21
    days of Mr Bs acceptance  of my decision, it might apply the refunds (on both loans)
    referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 2, and pay any balance
    to Mr B; and
4. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs credit file with regard to Loan 1 (and    
Loan 2 if UBF buys  it back). If Loan 2 has to remain with T, then UBF is to assist Mr B, so far 
as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
Ref: DRN86917323*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr B
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If UBF intends to apply
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it and he had 
nothing further  to add.
UBF responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that its analysis of Mr Bs 
income and expenditure showed that he had sufficient disposable income  to manage the 
required repayments. Its credit check before Loan  1 showed no county  court judgements or 
defaults within 36 months. And the reference  to active  loan accounts  in the credit check also 
referred to line of credit loans. Before Loan  1, UBF said that there was one short  term loan 
with a balance  of £539. Before Loan 2 it noted  that there were two outstanding short  term 
loans. It used the information provided by the credit reference agencies in its decision  
making process. It was also surprised  that my decision differed from that of the adjudicator  
who had provided  the first view on this complaint  and who would also have had access  to its 
file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that UBF is surprised that my provisional  decision  differed from the outcome in the 
adjudicators view. I dont  know  if the adjudicator fully reviewed all the information. But it was 
clear from my analysis of UBFs credit  checks that they showed a number of short  term 
loans as well as two large delinquent accounts,  one of which  had become delinquent around 
six weeks before Mr Bs application for Loan  1. I think that UBF should have been  concerned  
about the information shown in its credit checks.  And I think that a proportionate check  
should have included asking Mr B specific questions  about his other short  term lending.  The 
response to these would have  most likely shown that Mr B had at least  four other short term 
loans at the time of each of his applications for UBFs loans that he needed to repay. So I 
think UBF should have  drawn the reasonable conclusion  that Mr B was facing significant  
problems managing his money  and it shouldnt have provided him with the loans.
Overall UBF hasnt said anything that persuades me that the outcome I reached in my 
provisional decision was unreasonable or incorrect. I therefore remain of the view that UBF 
shouldnt have lent Loans 1 and 2 to Mr B. So my final decision is the same as I outlined  in 
my provisional decision and for the same  reasons.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Uncle Buck Finance  LLP, trading as Uncle Buck, to:
1. Refund all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loan 1 and pay 8% simple interest* a
    year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr B has paid on Loan 2, and pay 8% simple
    interest*  a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN86917324    As the balance on Loan 2 has been  transferred to a third party  (T), UBF should  also
    refund any unpaid  interest and charges that are included in the outstanding  balance
    on Loan 2 (since  T will expect to collect this money from Mr B).
3. As Loan 2 has been transferred to T, pay the above refunds to Mr B in full and no
    deductions should be made by UBF. But, if UBF buys Loan 2 back  from T within  21
    days of Mr Bs acceptance  of my decision, it might apply the refunds (on both loans)
    referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 2, and pay any balance
    to Mr B; and
4. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Bs credit file with regard to Loan 1 (and     
Loan 2 if UBF buys  it back). If Loan 2 has to remain with T, then UBF is to assist Mr B, so far 
as it is able, to correct his credit file record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UBF to take off tax from this interest. UBF must give Mr B
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one. If UBF intends to apply
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8691732