K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains he was coerced into taking out a hire purchase  agreement with Blue Motor
Finance Ltd (BMF) in his name.
background
In August  2016,  Mr V took out a hire purchase agreement to acquire a car. The total amount
payable on the agreement was £30,771.34 and a deposit of £5,295  was made towards  this.
The agreement was to be repaid by 49 monthly instalments of £516.66.
Mr V says he was coerced into taking out this agreement for someone else, who Ill refer to
as R. Mr V says R asked him to carry out some  building works at his property in return for
helping Mr V get a mortgage. R said he would speak to a mortgage broker  on Mr Vs behalf.
Mr V says the mortgage was never  arranged so he asked R to pay him for the building  work
that he carried out. It was at this point Mr V says R forced him to take out the hire purchase
agreement in his name.  When  Mr V initially declined this, he says R threatened him and said
something like dont  be stupid, because people who have been stupid have paid dearly".
Mr V says R drove  him to the dealership  where  R chose the car and the agreement was
taken out. Mr V says he inflated his salary significantly on the application  in the hope  that
BMF would notice Mr V was being coerced into taking  out the agreement. Unfortunately,
Mr V hasnt been able to provide us with any messages between him and R as he says R
often communicated  with him in person.
Mr V says R has threatened  him and his family  on more than one occasion and that Mr V 
moved house to avoid  feeling threatened. After he moved, Mr V says he reported matters to the 
police and Action Fraud - this was around two years after the agreement was taken  out. Mr V 
has provided us with crime reference numbers  for both reports.  Mr V says he has never  had the 
car and that as a result of BMF defaulting the account, he isnt able to get a mortgage. So, Mr V 
wants the default removed and the outstanding amount on the agreement  to be written off.
BMF say their records show Mr V entered the dealership, signed the documents  in the
dealership and provided personal details such as his bank account details. BMF also say the
police didnt register Mr Vs concerns as a crime and that Action  Fraud  said there wasnt
enough evidence  to prosecute R. So, they didnt  think there  was enough information to show
Mr V entered into the agreement under coercion.
BMF say Mr V took the car to a third-party garage  for repairs  in October 2016 and that it
remained there until BMF reclaimed it. The invoices provided by the third-party  garage  show
Mr Vs address details.  BMF have explained  that the third-party  garage  say it was Mr V who
dropped the car off to them for the repairs. The third-party  garage  say they had undertaken
approximately £8,000 worth of repairs.  And that the car was never collected.
Mr V says he never went to the third-party  garage and that R had previously brought some
documents to him which he was forced to sign. Mr V also says R knew  a lot of his personal
details as he said he would help him get a mortgage. So, it didnt surprise Mr V that his
address details were  on the invoices.
BMF say they sold the car at an auction  and used the money to reduce the outstanding 
amount owed on the finance. BMF say the remaining  amount  on the agreement is £7,486.38. 
BMF say they defaulted the account  because Mr V wasnt  in possession of the car.
Ref: DRN82228132Our investigator looked into Mr Vs concerns. In summary, he said there  wasnt  enough
evidence to suggest Mr V was coerced  into taking  out the hire purchase  agreement.  And that
the checks carried out by BMF  at the time of the application werent reasonable. However,
even if BMF had carried out further  checks,  they would have likely still accepted the
application. So, he didnt  think  BMF  did anything wrong.
Mr V disagreed. He reiterated that he reported  matters to the police once he moved to a 
different address as hed felt safe to do so. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint setting out the below:
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service
can consider complaints  relating to it. Our investigator focused mainly on whether the
finance was affordable for Mr V and about  BMFs  decision to lend to him. However, that
doesnt appear to be the complaint Mr V has made - I dont think affordability  is the crux of
this complaint. And instead I think its that Mr V felt coerced into entering  into the agreement,
and that its not fair BMF is holding him liable for the debt.
Affordability
Ive first thought about whether BMF completed reasonable and proportionate checks  on
Mr V to satisfy themselves that he was in a position to repay  the finance in a sustainable
way. And to do this, a few things Ive thought about is the amount of credit, the total
repayable and size of monthly repayments as well as the duration of the agreement  and Mr Vs 
individual circumstances.
BMF say they carried out a credit check on Mr V at the time, but they no longer have the
results of that check. BMF explained they didnt do any affordability  checks  as their system
accepts proposals automatically  unless  any irregularities flag up. However, BMF  say Mr Vs
credit file showed no adverse entries.  BMF  say in addition to this, Mr V declared an income
of around £79,000  on the application  and a deposit of £5,295 was paid. BMF also say Mr V
had normal utility outgoings which were relatively low. So, they felt the lending wasnt
unaffordable for Mr V.
Whilst I appreciate BMF  have said their systems  accept proposals automatically,  I think  they 
ought to have looked into Mr Vs financial situation  further than they did. I say this because Mr 
V provided  us with a copy of his payslip  from around the time the finance agreement was 
taken out. And I can see it shows he earns £800  a month - which is far less than the amount 
BMF say Mr V declared on the application  form. The monthly  repayments  on this agreement 
were also £516.66  which I think were quite high. With this in mind I think  BMF shouldve  taken  
further steps to verify if Mr V could  sustainably meet the repayments  and I think they shouldve 
done more to verify his income  and outgoings. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether I 
think further checks would have shown Mr V would have been able to meet  the repayments.
I can see from the bank  statements provided that Mr V had a lot of income from a variety  of
sources - these included  payments from third parties but I can also see money was being
transferred from Mr Vs other bank accounts.  Based  on the evidence weve got, its not really
clear what  BMF wouldve  seen had they done  proportionate checks.  And I dont feel I can
come to the conclusion that it wasnt responsible for BMF to allow Mr V to take out this
finance. However, I think there is another reason Mr V shouldnt  be held liable for this
agreement which Ill go on to.
Ref: DRN82228133Coercion
Theres no doubt that Mr V took out the hire purchase agreement - the details  on the
agreement are Mr Vs and he has acknowledged this. However, Mr V has consistently told
us he was pressured and coerced into taking this agreement out by R. And Im persuaded by
his testimony. Ill explain  why.
Mr V says he has never used the car and that he was never in possession  of it - he saw the 
car once  when he went with R to the dealership. Mr V says he was coached  by R into what to 
say before they approached the dealership. I can see from the information  provided that the 
registered keeper  and owner of the car details changed to Rs details five days after the 
agreement was taken  out. Mr V says he vaguely  remembers the make of the car but that is all. 
So, I believe  Mr V when  he says the car has never  been in his possession  and he didnt use it.
I understand the third-party garage  believe it was Mr V who dropped the car off to them  for
significant repairs in October 2016 - just two months  after the agreement was taken out.
Mr V says he has never heard of this garage and has reiterated  that he never had the car to
be able to it drop off. I can see Mr V also told BMF he had no knowledge of the dealership
during a conversation in June 2017.  Mr V says he first heard that the car was with this
garage when BMF  told him about it. Ive carefully thought about this and I find it unlikely  that
it was Mr V who dropped  the car off to the third-party garage.  I say this because as Ive
already explained, Mr V wasnt the registered keeper and owner of the car at the time and
hes been consistent in telling us he never  had the car.
Mr V says R forced him to sign some paperwork and he now believes the paperwork was to
endorse the repairs the garage said the car needed.  The invoice provided by the third-party
garage quoted  over £8,000 worth  of repairs - this amount was paid by BMF. Mr V says R
knew his address and contact details, so I dont think its unreasonable the repair  invoice had
Mr Vs details  on it as R could have passed  these on to the garage. In any case, I can see
from BMFs internal notes  that when they sent an independent inspector to look at the car
which was still at the garage, it was noted that all the repairs  the garage were  charging didnt
appear to have been carried  out. The inspector specifically  says: No evidence  of engine
being taken out - bolts not touched  oil is relatively old and no evidence of rear diff being
changed - housing would have shown  some cleaning". And its also noted that the car drives
very well but that there is a slight problem when  changing from reverse to first gear.  I can
see BMF  then challenged this with the garage. I can see the internal notes confirm that in
January 2018,  BMF  received  the difference in what they paid for the repairs  and what they
thought the repairs ought to have cost which was around £6,000. So, having thought about
this, I find the third-party garages testimony to be unreliable. I can see from BMFs internal
notes that when Mr V contacted them in December 2017, he was told that they wouldnt
pursue him for the repair bill and I think  this is fair.
BMF recognise Mr V reported matters to the police and Action fraud. But they have said Mr 
V didn't do this until a year and a half after the agreement was taken out. Mr V says he 
reported matters  in May 2018 and the reason he didn't do this sooner because R knew 
where he lived, and he often threatened Mr V and his family. Mr V says he finally  reported  
matters when he felt safe to do so as R didn't know the details of his new address. Mr V 
says he was trying to get help from BMF up until this point as he'd told them  about the 
coercion in a number  of conversations he had with BMF.
Ref: DRN82228134Whilst the police and Action Fraud may have chosen not to take further steps  with the 
investigation, I don't think that means Mr V didn't feel pressured and coerced in to taking out 
the agreement. I also don't think it's fair to disregard  this point due to the length  of time Mr V 
took to report matters. Mr V clearly  felt he was a victim,  which  is why he ultimately went to 
the police  and to Action  Fraud.  And he'd also already made  BMF aware of how he felt on 
more than one occasion. I don't think it's likely  Mr V would've gone  to the police or Action 
Fraud if there wasn't anything to report.  And I also don't think  the fact that Action Fraud and 
the police  may have  decided not to prosecute R means Mr V wasn't coerced into taking out 
the agreement.
In addition to this, I can see from BMF's internal notes, Mr V called them in January 2017. 
During this call, Mr V says that he was forced  to take out the finance and that his life was in 
danger if he didn't  do this. I appreciate  this call was ended  abruptly by Mr V and that he didn't 
provide any of his personal details. But I can see from the notes, BMF  were  able to identify it 
was Mr V by linking his phone number to his agreement. However,  BMF took no further action 
at this stage, despite being able to trace the call back to Mr V. So even though Mr V didn't 
report matters until some time later, BMF were  initially aware in January 2017  (five months  
after the agreement  was taken out), that Mr V felt coerced  into taking out the agreement.
There's a further  call to BMF from Mr V at the beginning of February 2017 where Mr V 
explains the coercion in further detail. Mr V also provides BMF with R's details - including  his 
full name  and address. In this call, BMF ask Mr V why he didn't report  matters at the point 
the agreement  was taken out. Mr V says this was because he was fearful of R. So again, Mr 
V makes BMF aware of being  coerced into taking out the agreement and provides them with 
R's details.  I would've  expected BMF to further investigate matters  at this stage and even 
look to repossess the car, especially as they had the details of who had the car, but I can't 
see this happened. Instead,  BMF tell Mr V to report it to the police  and they give him seven 
days to do this. In the same call, BMF also explained they would look to send out a section 
87 default for being out of possession of the car. So BMF were  aware  Mr V didn't have the 
car and they then defaulted the account  in July 2017.
Mr V says even though  he never  had possession  of the car, he made the payments  towards  
the finance agreement.  Mr V says this was so that his credit file wouldn't  be impacted. Mr V 
says he cancelled the direct debit for the agreement when he moved to a new house and 
that this happened in 2017. I can see from the statements BMF have provided, that the 
direct debit was cancelled at the beginning of May 2017. So, I think this resonates  with what  
Mr V has told us.
Having thought about everything, I do believe  something has gone wrong.  I appreciate a lot 
has happened, but on balance, I'm persuaded Mr V was coerced into taking out this 
agreement. And I'm persuaded  by Mr V's version  of events.  So, I don't think it's fair for BMF 
to pursue him for the outstanding amount.
Putting things right
I understand BMF sold the car at an auction  in April 2018 and offset this from the remaining 
amount under the finance. BMF sold the car for £14,980 and say there  is £7,486.38 left 
outstanding which Mr V is liable for.
Ref: DRN82228135As I've explained, BMF were made  aware in January 2017 and again in February 2017 that 
Mr V felt forced to take out this agreement by R. Whilst there isn't much evidence  from the 
point of supply  to show Mr V was coerced  into taking out the agreement, I think BMF 
could've done more when they were put on notice  that Mr V did feel coerced. And I feel this 
point was when  Mr V provided BMF with further details of the coercion and also provided 
them with R's details in February 2017.  I think BMF  ought to have investigated matters 
further and I don't think it was enough  to direct Mr V to report  matters to the police. So, 
what's left for me to decide is who would have been  liable  for the outstanding  amount (if 
there likely would have  been one in February 2017).
I can see from the statements BMF  provided that in February 2017, there was around 
£22,890 outstanding on the agreement.  I've looked  at two motor  valuation guides to get an 
idea of what the car would've likely have sold for at auction had BMF recovered it in February  
2017. One guide shows it likely would've have sold at auction for £22,100. And the other  
shows it likely would  have sold for £22,580. So had BMF repossessed the car in February 
2017, its likely it would  have sold at auction  for somewhere in the region of £22,340. Given  
Mr V had around £22,890 outstanding on the agreement, it's likely there would've been a 
shortfall of around  £500. Given I think BMF should  have  recovered the car in February 2017, 
Mr V wouldn't have  needed to make  the repayment  of £516.66 for this month. So, rather than 
BMF refund this amount  directly to Mr V, I think it's fair for BMF to use this payment to offset 
what likely  would have been  owing in February  2017. So, this leaves Mr V with nothing 
further to pay and I think BMF should stop pursuing him for the outstanding amount.
I won't  be recommending BMF refund Mr V the monthly payments he made  towards the 
agreement. I say this because  I don't  think BMF  made a mistake  in giving the hire purchase 
agreement to Mr V when the car was first supplied. As I've explained, I don't  think  there's 
enough evidence  to show Mr V was coerced at the point of supply by R.
In relation to the deposit, Mr V has told us he didn't pay this and believes it was paid by R. 
So, I won't be asking  BMF to refund the deposit to Mr V as I don't think  it's fair he receives a 
refund for something he didn't pay for.
I can see from Mr V's credit file that BMF  defaulted this account  in July 2017  as a result  of Mr V 
not being in possession of the car. However, I think the default should  be removed and Mr V's 
credit file should be updated  to reflect this. I say this because I've already made the finding that 
Mr V was coerced into taking out this agreement. So, it's for this reason I think BMF ought to 
remove any information recorded on Mr V's credit file in relation to this finance agreement.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr V responded to my provisional decision and had no further  comments.
BMF responded and provided me with points to consider. Ive summarised below what  I 
consider to be the most relevant elements of their response:
Mr V didnt raise any concerns about  being  coerced when he called BMF to make a 
payment. And that he only raised  concerns  around four months after the agreement had 
been taken out.  
If Mr V was coerced,  he ought  to have  reported it to the police sooner. In addition  to this, 
BMF say its their duty to recommend a customer do this if they raise  coercion.
Despite reporting matters to Action Fraud and the police, neither authority found 
sufficient evidence  that Mr V was a victim of a crime.
Ref: DRN82228136BMF recognise that Mr V had told them he was afraid of R and that they had no 
knowledge of where the car was. Therefore, they dont think they wouldve been able to 
repossess the car as suggested in my provisional decision.
The car was inspected in BMFs  car park after the alleged repairs had been paid for. 
However, once the engineer confirmed the repairs hadnt been  carried  out as detailed  in 
the invoice provided  by the third-party garage, BMF had to threaten  legal action  against  
the garage in order to reclaim costs.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr V may not have  raised any concerns about  being coerced when he called  
BMF to make a payment a few days after the agreement was taken out. However, Mr V has 
been consistent in telling  us that he didnt raise  things  sooner as he feared  R, which  BMF 
have acknowledged.  And I think this is a reasonable explanation as to why Mr V may not 
have raised his concerns sooner. Nevertheless,  BMF were made aware of the coercion in 
January 2017.  So, whilst  this may have been  a few months after the agreement  was taken 
out, I think they couldve done  more  at this point to look into matters further. 
BMF have said neither  Action Fraud nor the police found Mr V had been  the victim of a 
crime. But I don't think  Mr V had to be the victim  of a crime for him to have felt pressured 
and coerced into taking out the agreement. And, ultimately, my remit is to consider all the 
facts of the information I have and reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
I appreciate BMF say they didnt know where  the car was. Therefore, they dont think they 
wouldve been able to repossess the car. However,  BMFs internal notes show Mr V was 
able to provide  them  with Rs address details in February 2017.  In addition to this, the name 
and registered  keeper  details BMF provided our service with shows  Rs address details as of 
February 2017. So, I think BMF couldve used  the details that were provided  to them to 
locate the car. Or at the very least,  to contact R.
Having thought about everything further,  I think BMF couldve done more  when they were  
made aware  Mr V felt coerced into taking out the agreement. And my opinion remains  that I 
think Mr V was coerced  into taking  out this agreement. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I uphold  this complaint. And I order 
Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
Stop pursuing  Mr V for the outstanding amount  on the agreement.
Remove any information from Mr Vs credit file in relation to this finance agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8222813