K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Evergreen Finance London  Limited (trading as Moneyboat)  lent to her 
in an irresponsible  manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
February 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments or evidence.  Ms F has provided us 
with copies of her bank  statements at the time of the last two loans. Moneyboat hasnt 
responded to my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so I still dont think  
the complaint  should be upheld.
As I said in my provisional decision I think the checks Moneyboat before  agreeing  the first 
four loans were  proportionate. So I dont think there is any reason why the lender should  
have declined those  applications. But I think that Moneyboat  should  have independently  
checked the true state of Ms Fs finances  before the final loan.
Ive looked carefully  at the copies of the bank statements  Ms F has sent to us to see what  
better checks would  have shown to the lender. I cant see that Ms F was borrowing from any 
other short term lenders  around that time. And although her bank account was sometimes  
overdrawn I don't think  her statements suggest  her finances were under so much pressure 
that it would  be reasonable for me to conclude that Moneyboat shouldn't  have given her the 
final loan. The statements dont make  it clear that it would be unlikely that she'd be unable to 
repay her loan in a sustainable manner.
I dont think that, over the time she was borrowing  from Moneyboat, Ms Fs borrowing  had 
reached the point  where the lender should  have concluded she was dependent on its 
lending. I think the checks Moneyboat  did before agreeing the first four loans were 
proportionate. And I dont  think that better checks should have led the lender to decline 
Ms Fs fifth loan application either.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Evergreen Finance  London Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020.
Ref: DRN81340782Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81340783EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms F complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited  (trading as Moneyboat) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Ms F was given five loans by Moneyboat between  April and November 2015.  Each of the loans was 
repayable in monthly  instalments as shown below. Ms F appears to have taken far longer  than 
planned to repay her final loan, but all her loans have now been repaid. A summary of Ms Fs 
borrowing from Moneyboat  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount Number  of 
Instalments
1 15/04/2015 01/07/2015 £ 400 3
2 01/07/2015 31/07/2015 £ 600 4
3 06/08/2015 30/09/2015 £ 500 2
4 06/10/2015 30/11/2015 £ 700 3
5 30/11/2015 31/07/2017 £ 700 5
Ms Fs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think  Moneyboat had been 
wrong to give the first three loans to Ms F. But he thought that Ms Fs pattern of borrowing should  
have led the lender to conclude that it shouldnt give the last two loans to Ms F. So he asked 
Moneyboat to pay Ms F some compensation.
Disappointingly Moneyboat didnt respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Moneyboat needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Ms F could  repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Moneyboat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
Ref: DRN81340784the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
Moneyboat did some checks before it lent to Ms F. It asked her for details of her income,  and her 
normal expenditure. And it checked Ms Fs credit file before agreeing each  loan too. Ive seen the 
results of those credit checks. They show that Ms F had faced some problems managing  her money 
previously  she had some defaulted accounts that were still unpaid.  But those  problems had 
happened some time before  she asked  Moneyboat for these loans. So on balance,  I dont think  the 
credit checks showed anything that might have caused the lender to think additional checks  were 
necessary.
I think  that the checks Moneyboat did before agreeing the first four loans were proportionate. The 
amounts that Ms F needed to repay were small compared with the disposable income shed declared. 
Given these repayment amounts, what was apparent about Ms Fs circumstances at the time,  and her 
borrowing history with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Moneyboat to ask her 
for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before 
agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Ms F asked for loan 5, that Moneyboat  should have realised  that it couldnt 
safely rely on the information she was providing  about her finances.  I think  it should have taken steps  
at that time to independently verify Ms Fs true financial  position. We asked Ms F for copies of her 
bank statements so we could see what better checks would have shown Moneyboat.  She didnt 
provide these to us. So Im not able to say that better checks would have shown Moneyboat that it 
shouldnt have given  loan 5 to Ms F.
Our adjudicator thought that the pattern  of Ms Fs borrowing should  have led Moneyboat  to conclude 
that it shouldnt have given  the last two loans to Ms F. But I dont  agree. I certainly  think  that, as time 
went on, Moneyboat should have been increasingly  concerned that Ms F was becoming  dependent 
upon its lending.  But, on balance, I dont think those concerns would have been great enough  to 
suggest that Moneyboat shouldnt lend at all. Instead  I think  they should have  led, as Ive suggested 
above, to Moneyboat  undertaking  more detailed checks about Ms Fs finances.
I appreciate that my decision  will be disappointing  for Ms F. But I dont think  that, over the time she 
was borrowing from Moneyboat, her borrowing had reached the point where  the lender  should have 
concluded she was dependent on its lending.  I think the checks Moneyboat did before  agreeing the 
first four loans  were proportionate. And I havent seen enough  to make me think that better checks  
should have led the lender  to decline Ms Fs fifth loan application either.
Ref: DRN8134078