K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Miss B complain HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a payment, debited from their 
joint current account, to an online ticket resale  website (the website).
background
Miss B was interested  in some event tickets. She went to the website. She says the tickets 
were expensive and she wanted to see what the final price would be. She says she entered 
her HSBC debit card details and thought  by going to the next webpage the final price would 
be shown, but instead it said shed purchased the tickets.   
Miss B was unhappy  with this. She complained to the website but it wouldnt help, so she 
contacted HSBC. She said she wanted a refund because she hadnt  authorised  the payment 
to the website.  
HSBC looked  into the matter but it didnt think it could help. This was because it thought 
Miss B had authorised the payment.  Miss B didnt  agree, saying the final amount wasnt  
shown so she didnt  agree to how much she was charged. In her view shed been the victim 
of fraud. She complained  to our service. 
I issued a provisional decision saying that I didnt think I should uphold this complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
This complaint is about HSBC, as Mr C and Miss Bs current  account  provider.  Its 
not about the website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt  fall 
within my remit.  Im only considering whether Miss B authorised HSBC to debit the 
account with the value  of the transaction, and whether it could help with her dispute  
with the website.
relevant considerations
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017. 
These explain that a payment out of someones account  can only be authorised if the 
payer has consented to it. The payment service provider (here,  HSBC) must also 
show the payment  was authenticated. But its not enough for the bank to simply rely 
on the fact that the card and PIN, or the personalised set of procedures  needed to 
initiate a payment,  were  used; that doesnt  necessarily mean that the payment was 
authorised by the account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important because, very broadly 
speaking, under both the Payment Services Regulations and the account terms and 
conditions the account holders are liable  for payments theyve authorised  and the 
banks liable  for unauthorised payments. 
did Miss B authorise HSBC to debit the account  with the value of the transaction? 
For the payment  to be authenticated card details needed to be entered. Miss B 
accepts she entered  the details on her debit  card,  and the order went through, so Im 
satisfied the payment was authenticated. 
Ref: DRN81498342Miss B argues, effectively, that she cant be said to have consented to the payment 
being made (and therefore to have  authorised  it) if she didnt know that a payment 
was about to be made. She says she wouldnt have  proceeded with the purchase of 
the tickets if shed known the total and final cost before the payment was made.
Im not persuaded, however, that Miss B wasnt aware, or that she didnt have the 
information which should have made her aware,  of the value of the payment. Im also 
not persuaded that she was unaware  a payment was about  to be made.  Ive noted all 
that Miss B has said about how the website  functioned when she was accessing it 
and how the screens  appeared at various times. Ive seen the steps someone 
needed to follow to buy tickets on the website in April and June 2018.  The sales  
process, in brief, was as follows:
-The buyer chooses the event  and date they want the tickets for.
-The buyer selects how many  tickets they want,  and then chooses the tickets  
they want. The location (section and row) and price per ticket  are shown.  A 
summary pops up, and to continue, a buyer  clicks Buy. 
-The buyer enters their personal  information. At the top left-hand side of the 
page, the number of tickets selected and the price per ticket  are shown. It has 
a note below  this which says Not Included: Handling  Fee, VAT and Booking 
Fee.
-The delivery method  is confirmed,  and at the top left-hand  side the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket and handling fees per ticket are shown. It 
has a note below this which says Not Included:  VAT and Booking Fee.
-The buyer selects the payment method, and at the top left-hand  side the 
number of tickets selected, the price per ticket  and handling  fees per ticket  
are shown.  It has a note below this which  says Not Included: VAT and 
Booking Fee.
-The buyer enters their payment details (name  on card, card number, expiry 
date and card security code). At the top left-hand  side the number of tickets 
selected, the price  per ticket,  handling fees per ticket, and VAT and booking  
fee per ticket are shown.  Also included is the total price, in capitals  and in 
bold.
-The buyer completes  the purchase. In the centre  of the screen the number of 
tickets selected, the price  per ticket, handling fees per ticket,  and VAT and 
booking fee per ticket  are shown. Also included is the total price,  in capitals 
and in bold. The buyer then has to click, at the bottom of the page, to 
complete the purchase.  
Miss B bought  the tickets  in February 2018. I havent seen the full process from then 
as screen shots  arent available to me. But I have seen screen  shots from 
August 2017,  October 2017  and March 2018. These show the process  from the start 
until the penultimate  page. On all these the process and pricing information layout 
are - to my eye - the same as what Ive seen for April and June 2018. And Ive seen 
nothing to persuade me that the website was materially different in February 2018. 
Ref: DRN81498343So I think the process Ive described above  is most likely the process Miss B would 
have followed.
The Advertising Standards Authority (ASA)  issued a ruling against the website 
earlier this year. It said that the ad for the tickets  (the start of the process where  a 
buyer chooses the tickets they want)  didnt make clear the total ticket  price including  
the booking fee, and didnt make clear the applicable delivery fee, so it concluded  
that the ad was misleading. I can see why the ASA came to this conclusion.  But I 
dont need to comment on the ad. Instead, I need  to consider the information  
available to Miss B when  she chose to complete the transaction. 
As Ive explained above, the full price wasnt shown at the start of the process. But 
from what Ive seen,  by the time a buyer was asked to input their payment details 
(which Miss B says she did) the full price was shown. And it was shown on the final 
page before  a buyer completes the transaction. I think this must have appeared on 
Miss Bs screen, as her order was placed.  So I think the full price was available  to 
Miss B. And I think she completed the transaction. 
Overall, given my conclusions as to what I think - on balance - Miss B is likely to have 
seen when she was on the website, I conclude  Miss B was aware  of the value of the 
transaction to be made - and that it was about to be made - and therefore  consented  
to and authorised  it. It follows  that I cant fairly  and reasonably say HSBC wasnt 
entitled to debit the account on the basis that the transaction wasnt authorised.
could HSBC help with the dispute with the website? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant,  as 
Miss B does here, HSBC (as the debit card issuer) can attempt a chargeback. 
Generally we say its fair for a card issuer  to attempt a chargeback  - or to challenge 
a payment - if theres a reasonable  prospect of success, for example where  goods  
arent received or it appears that the payment wasnt  properly authorised by the 
cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where 
chargeback has been  successful. But it doesnt necessarily follow  that HSBC  should 
have attempted  one here. What I need  to decide is if, in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint,  I think it should have. But I dont think HSBC  couldve challenged 
the payment on the basis Miss B didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the 
conclusions Ive already set out.
And Miss B has now received the tickets and attended the event. So I dont think 
HSBC could have  challenged the payment on the basis  that she didnt get what  she 
paid for either. 
Ref: DRN81498344whats my conclusion?
I have a good deal of sympathy for Miss B. Its clear she feels strongly that the 
website has acted poorly, and that shes lost out as a result. But as Ive said, I cant  
decide a complaint about the website. I can only decide whether I can fairly  require 
HSBC to refund Miss B in the particular circumstances of this complaint.  
And for the reasons Ive explained, I think Miss B authorised HSBC to debit the 
account with the value  of the transaction. And I dont think it could help with her 
dispute with the website.  It follows  that I dont think I can fairly  require  HSBC  to 
refund the payment. 
HSBC didnt respond. Miss B responded to say, in summary, that:
-HSBC initially refunded the payment,  but then debited it without her knowledge  or 
consent; 
-she was asked to enter her payment information  before she chose her tickets;
-the VAT,  booking and handling fees werent  clearly shown;
-the ASA said the full ticket price  wasnt shown;
-she wouldnt have bought tickets with a face value of £117 for £346; 
-shes experienced at buying event tickets; and
-the website  has ripped  her off, as it has thousands of other people all over the world.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  this will come  as a disappointment 
to Miss B, but I havent changed my mind. Ill address  her comments  in turn. 
When Miss B contacted  HSBC it applied a temporary credit to her account for the amount 
being disputed. This is fairly  common practice  as it means an account holder isnt out of 
pocket while  a dispute is looked  into. HSBC looked  into the matter and concluded Miss B 
wasnt - in its view - entitled to a refund. In light of my findings about Miss B having  
authorised the payment and what she would  have seen during the purchase I think this was 
reasonable. I dont  think HSBC needed  her consent to debit the temporary credit,  and from 
HSBCs internal notes  Im satisfied it attempted  to call her to tell her what would happen.   
Miss B has described the websites process and the information she was given. But she 
hasnt provided  me with anything to persuade me her recollection is more likely than the 
process and information  I described in my provisional decision, which  was based on 
contemporaneous screenshots. 
In regard to Miss Bs comment about  what the ASA said, I would refer her to what  I said in 
my provisional decision. But, in summary,  my understanding  is that the ASA commented on 
the ad - the start of the process. I need to consider the full process,  with particular attention  
to the end of the process. This is so I can determine whether I think Miss B consented  to and 
Ref: DRN81498345authorised the payment. And as I set out in my provisional decision - on balance  - I think  she 
did.
I accept that Miss B is an experienced event ticket buyer, and that ordinarily  she wouldnt 
have paid as much as she did for the tickets  she purchased. But as I said in my provisional 
decision, I think the full price  was available to Miss B and she chose to go ahead with the 
purchase. So I think she agreed to the price  being asked of her. And I dont think theres a 
reason HSBC could  have  used under the chargeback scheme  rules  for being charged more  
than a tickets face value.   
Im aware the website  has been criticised by many people, across  a range of media,  in a 
number of different  countries. But as Ive said, I can only decide a complaint about whether I 
think HSBC acted fairly in this particular case.  And taking everything into account, in the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint, I think it did. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8149834