K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave him loans  that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr G was given two loans  by Mr Lender  in 2012. He first borrowed £400 in February 2012. 
He wasnt able to repay  that loan when it was originally  due so he deferred  his repayment for 
two months by paying some additional interest.  He finally  repaid  the loan in April 2012. 
His second loan was for £450 and taken in May 2012. Mr G was also unable to repay that 
loan when it was originally due so he again deferred  his repayment for two months  by paying 
some additional  interest.  And then he explained  to Mr Lender that he had entered a debt 
management plan and started  making token monthly repayments. When  Mr G brought his 
complaint to this service  a balance still remained outstanding on his second loan.
When Mr G first complained to Mr Lender it concluded  that it hadnt  done anything wrong in 
giving these two loans to him. But as a gesture of goodwill  it offered to clear Mr Gs 
remaining outstanding  balance. Mr G didnt accept that offer and brought his complaint to 
this service.
One of our adjudicators has assessed Mr Gs complaint. Although  he didnt think  Mr Lender 
had done sufficient checks before lending to Mr G, he wasnt  able to determine  that better 
checks would have  found the loans  to be unaffordable. So he didnt recommend that the 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr G didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint  hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr Lender was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether Mr G 
could afford  to pay back each loan before it lent to him. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr G was borrowing, and his lending  history,  but 
there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr Lender has told us about the checks  it did before lending  to Mr G. Before each  loan it 
asked him for details  of his normal income. It also checked Mr Gs credit  file. Although 
I havent seen  the full results of those credit  checks Im not aware that there  was any 
adverse information  such as defaults  or county court judgements on the file that I think  
should have caused additional concerns  to Mr Lender.
Ref: DRN83116222Both amounts that Mr G asked to borrow were  relatively large compared with the income 
that he declared to Mr Lender. So I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to base  its 
affordability assessment  solely on Mr Gs income.  I think Mr Lender should also have 
gathered details of Mr Gs expenditure at the time, including asking him some  specific  
questions about  any other short term loans he was already committed to repaying. So I dont 
think the checks Mr Lender  did before agreeing  either loan were  proportionate.
As Mr Lender doesnt appear to have carried out what  I consider to have been proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr G, I cant say for sure what it would have found out had it done 
so. We asked Mr G to provide us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for the loans,  so we could see what information Mr Lender shouldve taken into 
account before agreeing to lend to him. Mr G hasnt  given us the information  we asked for. 
Our adjudicator explained why we need  the information and the likely consequences  of us 
not receiving it. Despite that, Mr G still hasnt  given us what  we asked for. So, I havent  been 
able to get a picture of what his financial circumstances  were  like at the relevant time. That 
means I cant say that if Mr Lender had completed  sufficient checks it wouldve found that 
Mr G couldnt afford  to repay the loans. 
I appreciate that Mr G set out as part of his complaint an estimate of his income  and 
outgoings at the time of the loans. But I dont think I can rely on that. Thats  because  Mr G 
was recalling quite  detailed information about his outgoings several years after hed taken 
the loans. I have also considered what Mr G says about entering  a debt management plan 
later in 2012. But whilst that shows me his finances  were under pressure then, it doesnt 
show me what Mr Lender would have discovered from what I consider to be proportionate 
checks at the time it agreed to lend to him.
As I am not upholding this complaint, and havent  been able to conclude  that Mr Lender was 
wrong to lend to Mr G, it isnt appropriate for me to direct Mr Lender to honour  the gesture of 
goodwill that it made to Mr G in its response to his complaint. But Mr Lender might  choose to 
do so, and so Id encourage Mr G to get back in touch with Mr Lender in relation to that offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
PDL Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8311622