K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background 
Mr B said his car was broken into on 7 January  2019. He claimed on his Admiral policy. 
Admiral initially told Mr B that they had authorised his car to be repaired and for the repairing 
garage to give him a courtesy car. But on 19 February 2019, Admiral told Mr B that they had 
made a mistake.  They  said they shouldnt have  told him repairs  had been authorised as they 
should have assessed the car first. Admiral said an independent engineer had since  
assessed the car and given the estimated  cost of repairing the damage, it appeared to be a 
total loss. Therefore under the policy he wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car. Because of the 
errors made Admiral offered to pay Mr B £50 compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with Admirals service. He was also concerned that it was taking Admiral 
too long to deal with his claim. So, he brought his complaint to our service.  One of our 
adjudicators looked into it. He felt that there was an initial two week delay on Admirals  part. 
But there was also a delay caused  by Mr B because  he didnt make himself available  to be 
interviewed by Admirals investigator. But our adjudicator felt the main delay in dealing with 
the claim was because the police hadnt  provided  Admiral with a copy  of the police report. 
On our adjudicators  suggestion Admiral agreed  to increase the compensation by £50 to a 
total of £100. But as Mr B didnt think that went far enough, the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr B, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Bs points  carefully. But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
Admiral have accepted  that their service could  have been better. I can see the main errors 
happened within the first three or so weeks of Mr B reporting the incident.  Admiral clearly 
had some concerns  about the claim which they wanted investigated. And they were entitled  
to do that. But there  seems to have been  an unreasonable delay in them instructing an 
investigator. That could have been done  sooner. And Admiral have accepted hey made a 
mistake in telling  Mr B that they had authorised the repairs and he would be given a courtesy  
car. But more than a week earlier Admiral had instructed an independent engineer to assess 
the car. Mr B was therefore  given  an expectation  that all was well, his car would be fixed and 
he would  get a courtesy car. I think when he was later told that wasnt  the case he would  
have experienced some  distress.
I know Mr B has suffered inconvenience and incurred expense in his alternative travel  
arrangements. But under the policy he wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car as his car is a total 
loss. The policy says a courtesy car would only be provided if Mr Bs car was being repaired 
by on of Admirals approved repairers. But as that was never the case  because it was a total 
Ref: DRN81366642loss, Mr B was not entitled to a car under the policy. Mr B has said he feels  the policy is 
misleading on the point of the courtesy car. As that wasnt raised  with Admiral before, if he 
wishes to pursue that he will have to raise it as a new complaint with Admiral  to give them  an 
opportunity to address his concern. So, its not something I can deal with in this complaint.
But given Admiral  decided  the car is not repairable, the policy requires  Admiral  to consider 
paying Mr B the cars market value at the time of the loss. Admiral said before doing that 
they intended to investigate the claim. And as part of that investigation they asked an 
investigator to take a statement from Mr B. That took almost two months  because  the 
investigator felt Mr B wasnt being cooperative.  I know  Mr B said he wasnt being 
uncooperative but he was extremely  busy. But whatever the reason I think  it has delayed  
Admirals investigation.  Admiral also felt it was important  to have a copy  of the police report.  
Ive seen that they requested that but there have been delays by the police in providing that 
report. Admiral have no control over the police so those delays are out of their hands. 
So, while I think there were mistakes made initially by Admiral, I think  £100  compensation is 
a reasonable amount to address the impact of those  mistakes. Im therefore not asking  
Admiral to do anything  further.  And I dont think the subsequent delays were  Admirals fault 
so Im not upholding  this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8136664