K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Mrs W made a claim on a home insurance policy  for damage  caused by an escape 
of water.  They say Amtrust Europe  Limited (Amtrust) has been  unfair  when it said it wont  
meet the claim.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May. In that I said I was minded to uphold  
Mr S and Mrs Ws complaint, as I thought theyd complied with the terms and conditions of 
their policy,  in that theyd  more than likely  heated the empty  property as required,  and that 
theyd regularly checked it for signs  of damage. A copy of my provisional  findings is attached 
and forms part of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Amtrust  and Mr S and Mrs W have responded to the provisional findings. 
Amtrust says that I noted that the average usage  for gas in a similar sized property is £35 a 
month  so the usage in the winter months  should be much  higher if the house was being 
heated. It hasnt provided any more information on this point. Ive thought carefully  about  
this, but Im not persuaded  by Amtrusts argument.  I already  noted  that there would be little 
use of gas other than the heating  no cooking,  or gas fires for example. So I dont think  the 
fact that usage  isnt much higher than the average shows the heating  wasnt  on.
Amtrust also says it stands by its assertion that there was no central  log of visits and what  
was noted, so Mr S and Mrs W didnt comply  with the requirements  of the policy.  Ive already  
explained in my provisional decision  that, although Mr S and Mrs W may not have followed 
the terms and conditions to the letter, they did enough to convince me theyd  regularly 
inspected the property. 
Overall Amtrust hasnt provided  any additional information, or any more persuasive  
arguments than it did previously, so I see no reason to change my provisional decision on 
these two points.
Mr S and Mrs W, via their representative,  say they broadly agree with the findings. They say 
however that the compensation should be higher, to reflect  the delays caused by Amtrust 
and its representatives.  Mr S and Mrs Ws representative has sent in, mostly, examples of 
how often he  on behalf of his clients  had to chase Amtrust. However, it isnt appropriate 
for me to ask Amtrust  to compensate his inconvenience, as hes not Amtrusts customer.  
I think the amount  I already suggested, £500,  is sufficient for the delays caused by Amtrust.
Mr S and Mrs W have  also pointed out that, because  things have taken so long and because  
Amtrust was so reluctant to meet the claim,  the property has now deteriorated to the point 
where their builder says the most economic  way forward is to demolish  the existing building 
and rebuild it. Knowing this, they have explored the possibility of replacing the bungalow with 
two houses in order to recover some  of their losses.
Ref: DRN86731012I understand that this may be Mr S and Mrs Ws preferred way forward,  but it isnt something 
I can order Amtrust  to support. Amtrusts  liabilities  are limited by the terms and conditions  in 
the insurance policy. These say (in summary)  that Amtrust is obliged to pay the full cost of 
repair, providing the building was in a good  state of repair before the water leak, the sum 
insured is enough to rebuild the property  and the damage is repaired. Its not obliged to pay 
for any undamaged  parts of the building. Another way of putting this is that Amtrust is 
obliged to put Mr S and Mrs W in the position they were in before the leak happened  which 
would be a house with no water damage.  
My understanding is that Amtrust hasnt properly assessed the damage as it didnt  think  it 
had to meet this claim.  It should either  do that now or accept a quote from Mr S and Mrs W 
and use this as a basis for the settlement. Amtrust can normally  choose how it settles the 
complaint  either it carries out the repairs or offers a cash settlement. It might be that the 
only way to settle this claim  after so long is a cash settlement. If thats the case  then Amtrust 
knows this service considers fair settlement to be the amount Mr S and Mrs W would pay to 
carry out the repairs.
I dont know the current cost of repairing the damage.  But from what  I know so far, the 
complaint might involve  an amount over £150,000.  I cant require Amtrust to pay more than 
£150,000 in compensation (although it may do so voluntarily). Weve advised  both Mr S and 
Mrs W, and Amtrust of this. Amtrust says it would respond positively to a situation  where  the 
compensation was over £150,000.
Amtrust is now invited to settle this complaint by offering  to pay the full level of 
compensation owing  to Mr S and Mrs W as a result of my recommendation for redress  
outlined above. This is what I consider to be fair compensation in this case. Alternatively 
Amtrust may wish to make a different offer to settle the complaint. The terms of any offer 
made by Amtrust will be put to Mr S and Mrs W for their consideration.  
If this case  is settled earlier and the compensation comes to more  than £150,000,  the 
business can do one of two things. It can pay the full amount. Or it can make an 
alternative offer to settle the complaint at this stage. Well put the terms of any other offer 
the business makes to Mr S and Mrs W for their consideration. 
I think its reasonable for Amtrust to agree settlement with Mr S and Mrs W within two 
months of the date of this decision. That should give Amtrust enough time to carry out 
any assessments, and Mr S and Mrs W some certainty over when they can expect  this 
claim to be finalised.
Amtrust should also pay Mr S and Mrs W £500  for the way it dealt with this claim. This 
amount doesnt  form part of the redress outlined above, and doesnt count towards the 
possible £150,000  limit.
my final decision
My decision  is that Amtrust  Europe Limited  should meet Mr S and Mrs Ws claim in full, in 
line with any other relevant terms and conditions in the policy. It must also pay Mr S and Mrs 
W £500 for the way it handled the claim,  and do this within 14 days of the date of this 
decision.
Ref: DRN86731013Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 September 2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86731014Copy of provisional  decision May 2020.
complaint
Mr S and Mrs W made a claim on a home insurance policy  for damage  caused by an escape 
of water.  They say Amtrust Europe  Limited (Amtrust) has been  unfair  when it said it wont  
meet the claim.
 
background
Mr S and Mrs W lost their mother in April 2016. Over the next couple of years  they kept the 
bungalow she had lived in insured with Amtrust whilst they dealt with her estate.
In early March 2018 there was an escape of water, which caused considerable damage. 
Mr S and Mrs W lodged  a claim  with Amtrust, and the claim was accepted. 
Amtrust sent a loss adjuster  (a specialist who assesses damage and the cost of repairs  plus 
any surrounding circumstances for insurers)  to look at the property. He concluded that the 
damage was most likely caused by a pipe that had burst when frozen that had then leaked 
when it thawed.
Amtrust said there were  terms  and conditions that had to have been met by Mr S and Mrs W 
if their claim  was to succeed.  They had to have kept the heating  on at a minimum of 15C (or 
switched off the water and drained  the heating system), and inspected  the property  inside 
and out at least once every  30 days, recording the dates  times and results.
Mr S and Mrs W sent copies of the electricity and gas bills to Amtrust and a copy of their 
diary entries for visits to the bungalow.
In August  2018  Amtrust  said it wouldnt meet the claim: it said the energy usage wasnt high 
enough to support heating  the property to the required temperature, nor did it think the diary 
entries showed Mr S and Mrs W had conducted  inspections as described  in the policy  
documents.
Mr S and Mrs W complained about the decision and the time  over five months  this had 
taken. Amtrust wouldnt change its position, so Mr S and Mrs W brought their complaint to 
us.
Our investigator agreed with Amtrust, as she also didnt think  enough energy had been used 
to show the property was heated as it should have been. And she thought some of the 
delays in processing the claim were because it took Mr S and Mrs W (and their 
representative) a long time to send Amtrust the inspection  record and energy bills.
Mr S and Mrs W remain unhappy about  this, so Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im currently  intending  to uphold this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN86731015For Mr S and Mrs W to make a valid claim on their insurance they first need to show  that an 
insured event, as defined in their policy, has happened.  Theres no dissent about the cause  
of the damage  in the property  it was a burst pipe, and the insured  event  is escape  of 
water. There are some exclusions (reasons why Amtrust might not have to meet the claim) 
that apply to this event   but none  appears relevant here other  than that Amtrust doesnt 
have to pay for the first £500  of damage. 
There is an endorsement that also applies to the claim  which  is the conditions Mr S and 
Mrs W must  have met before Amtrust pays the claim. The relevant endorsement appears to 
be under  the heading  Unoccupied condition. It says that either the water  should be 
switched off and the water  system  drained,  or the heating must be on to maintain  a 
temperature of 15C at all times. It goes on to say Mr S and Mrs W must inspect the property 
inside and out at least every  30 days, and that they should record the dates, times and 
results of the inspections.
Amtrust doesnt think Mr S and Mrs W met either  condition. I currently  think  they did, and Ill 
explain why.
heating
Amtrust says only 60 units of gas were used  between  December  2017  and March 2018, and 
it says thats not enough to show the building was heated sufficiently. Unfortunately  we dont  
know what a unit  is in terms of energy usage  but I dont think  this means  I cant  draw 
some conclusions about the amount  of energy  used.  The gas cost just over £98 for the three 
months up to the 15 March 2018,  and the leak happened just before that. Given  that the 
property wasnt lived in, this is a fair amount  of gas to use if the property isnt being heated. 
Mr S and Mrs W say the heating was left on at 18C, and this does seem  feasible from the 
information provided.
Checking comparison sites, it appears  that the average cost of gas for a 1-2 bed property is 
around £35 a month. The bill were  looking  at suggests close to that level of usage   and I 
think its fair to say that suggests the heating was on, given there  was no requirement for hot 
water or cooking. Ive also taken into account  that if the heating is on all the time, then it will 
be topping up the heat when the temperature drops  a little, rather  than warming  the 
property from cold. 
Mr S and Mrs W have  also told us that the bungalow  was well insulated, and the pipe that 
burst was in the loft  above the general insulation. They say that although it was lagged,  the 
weather was very cold at the time. Ive looked at the weather reports  for the area for the 
time, and in the two months before  the leak, the temperature didnt drop more  than a few 
degrees below zero. Its possible  the pipe froze somewhat earlier than this and then thawed. 
I dont think we can be sure of the timing of this  but I also think that could have happened 
even if the room below was heated.
Amtrust also pointed out that gas usage  for the previous year for the same period had been 
a lot higher. Mr S and Mrs W explained  that was because people were  spending time there  
sorting things out and were using more gas for heating etc. I think thats reasonable   and as 
I said above, I also think the gas usage  for the critical period was enough  to keep the house  
as warm as was required.
Ref: DRN86731016inspections
Mr S and Mrs Ws policy says they (or their representatives) should  inspect the property 
inside and out at least once every  30 days, and record  dates, times and findings in a central 
record. Amtrust  says the information provided  by Mr S and Mrs W doesnt meet  these 
requirements. Mr S and Mrs W say they or their representatives were at the property much 
more frequently  than this, and theyve provided details of who visited, when they visited,  and 
why they were there. The comments dont go into much detail, but Mr S and Mrs W point out 
that if theres  nothing  to note  in that all was well  they wouldnt write  anything.  I think 
thats a fair comment. Theres no definition in the policy what an inspection should include.  
But I think this would  generally be interpreted as a check that there were no immediate signs  
of damage, such as, for example, loose tiles or internal  damp. I accept they could have 
commented on this each time they visited  but I dont think the absence of such a comment  
means they didnt  look round.
I think Mr S and Mrs W have provided  enough  evidence to show they did visit the property 
on a regular basis. One visit in particular suggests  that some  time was spent at the property, 
as Mr S or Mrs W was meeting a contractor to check for asbestos.  That meeting took place 
on the 15 February  and I think its fair to assume  there was no sign of damage at that 
point. This was within 30 days of the pipe bursting  shortly before 4 March,  when  the leak 
was spotted by a neighbour.
Im intending  to uphold this complaint.  Mr S and Mrs W say the damage is now much worse 
than it was, as the whole property is being  affected  by the damp.  Amtrust  will still need  to 
return the property  to the condition it was in before the leak,  as it was its decision to not carry 
out the repairs.
delays and compensation
I also think Amtrust  had caused  a lot of unnecessary distress and inconvenience  to Mr S and 
Mrs W. It did take a long time for Amtrust  to decide it wouldnt meet  this claim, even if some 
of the delays were  because Mr S and Mrs W (or their representative) didnt  provide  all the 
evidence they were asked for. But since then Mr S and Mrs W havent  been able to make  
progress on settling their late mothers estate, and Im intending to award £500 
compensation for this. 
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint,  and order Amtrust Europe  Limited  to meet  this claim, 
and also to pay Mr S and Mrs W £500  compensation  for the way it handled the claim.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8673101