K822xcomplaint
Mrs C complains about poor customer service by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  when 
she called  on it under her home emergency  insurance policy  to attend  to a leaking boiler.
 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 22 February  2019,  a copy of which  is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mrs C accepted my provisional  decision,  but pointed  out that she hadnt cashed the cheque 
for the £100 goodwill payment that BGI had sent her, and it was now out of date. She has 
now forwarded the unpaid cheque to us.
BGI responded to say, in summary, that it didnt agree that it should reimburse what  Mrs Cs 
plumber had charged. It said the plumber did carry out some work as indicated by his 
invoice:
For emergency call out on....l4/01/18
To attend  to water leak from central  heating  boiler.  Pressure gauge  on boiler found to have 
previously left on far too high. Also pressure release pipework backing into property allowing 
water to penetrate  back into building.  Pressure  released in interim period to await initial 
contractors to return.
However BGI did agree to increase its compensation from £100 to £200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did acknowledge in my provisional decision that the plumber did some work. However I 
agreed with Mrs C that it wasnt significant.  He simply tried temporarily to alleviate  the water  
flow from the leak. As his invoice says:
Pressure released in interim period to await  initial  contractors to return.
As he wouldnt have  been  called out but for the misdiagnosis of BGIs first engineer,  and he 
didnt do anything to diagnose or cure the problem, I remain of the view that BGI should 
reimburse his call out charge.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order British Gas Insurance  Limited to:
1.reimburse to Mrs C the £108  call out charge she had to pay her own plumber; and
2.pay Mrs C £200, inclusive of the £100  it has already offered her, as compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  its failure to correctly  diagnose the fault caused her.
Ref: DRN87161142Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 22 February 2019
complaint
Mrs C complains about poor customer  service by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGI)  when she 
called on it under  her home emergency insurance policy  to attend  to a leaking  boiler.
background
Mrs C moved into her house in 2016. She took out a home emergency policy  with BGI to cover the 
central heating boiler and system that were already installed. In January 2018 she called on BGI 
Ref: DRN87161143under her policy to fix her boiler which seemed to be leaking into a bedroom and through  to the 
kitchen below.
The BGI engineer who attended on 11 January 2018 said the problem wasnt with her boiler and 
advised her to call a plumber, as plumbing and drains  werent included  in her BGI policy. Mrs C 
contacted a plumber who came on 14 January  2018 at a call out charge of £108 including VAT.  He said 
the problem was indeed with the boiler and she should call BGI again.
BGI engineers  came on 14 and 15 January 2018. They fitted parts and said the boiler was now OK. 
However on 16 January 2018 Mrs C found one of her radiators was leaking. BGI engineers  returned on 
16 and 17 January 2018.  They fitted  another part and replaced the radiator.
Mrs C complained to BGI. She wanted it to pay:
the plumbers call out charge for the plumbers  visit BGI wrongly  told her was required;
the damage the boiler leak caused to her kitchen  and belongings; and
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she had suffered.
BGI said the leak which had caused the damage to Mrs Cs property and belongings  was due to the 
way a pressure release  valve (PRV) had been wrongly installed  sometime in the past. BGI hadnt 
supplied the boiler or fitted the PRV, so in accordance  with the policy terms it wasnt liable  for the 
resulting failure and damage.
BGI also said that the radiator failed  and leaked because it developed  a pinhole leak,  not because of 
any faulty workmanship by its engineers. However  there had been a number of faults altogether,  and 
it had taken BGIs engineers a number  of visits to resolve  them all. In recognition  of this it paid Mrs C 
a goodwill payment  of £100. 
Mrs C didnt accept that this was enough for the problems she had suffered and complained  to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint  should be upheld. He said BGIs policy  terms 
had the following  provision regarding pre-existing faults:
Pre-existing faults
Our products  dont include  cover for any faults or design faults that:
 Were already there when your boiler,  appliance  or system  was installed, or were  caused by anybody  
other than us when any change or additions were made to your boiler,  appliance or system
BGI said it wasnt responsible for fitting the boiler  or the PRV, and the investigator said there wasnt 
any evidence to disprove  this. BGI also said it wouldnt  investigate the PRV during a service  visit 
unless something in its test put it on enquiry. So in accordance with the policy  conditions,  the 
investigator couldnt say BGI should be responsible  for the damage caused when the PRV failed.
The radiator leak arose from a pinhole leak, and there wasnt  any evidence to suggest BGI had done 
any work on the radiator that would  have caused the pinhole leak.  He thought  the £100 BGI had paid 
Mrs C was reasonable compensation for the number of visits it took BGI to resolve all the problems.
Mrs C responded  to say, in summary, that:
she thought BGI should reimburse the £108 call out charge she had to pay her plumber 
because BGI wrongly told her on the first visit that the leak was a plumbing, not a boiler, 
problem;
in the time it took from the first visit until the system worked properly the damage to her property  
got worse; and
the radiator  was in working order before  BGIs visits.
Ref: DRN87161144The investigator asked BGI if it would  reimburse  the £108 call out charge.  But BGI said that as it 
seemed the plumber  had done some work on the discharge pipe from the PRV to alleviate the water 
flow from the leak, it didnt agree the visit was unnecessary.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said her plumber charged for the call out and didnt do any significant work. 
She asked  for her complaint to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The main problem affecting Mrs Cs system was the failure of the PRV. I have seen nothing to 
suggest BGI fitted the boiler or the PRV, or should have noticed it was fitted incorrectly in the course  
of normal servicing of the boiler. So in accordance with the policy terms Ive quoted above I cant  hold 
BGI responsible for the failure of the PRV or the damage that resulted from this.
Mrs C has said that when she first called  on BGI on 11 January 2018, there was already water 
damage to her property. Im satisfied that the first BGI engineer failed to diagnose that the cause of 
the leak was the PRV on the boiler. Instead  he told Mrs C to get a plumber  as he thought there was a 
water leak unconnected to the boiler. 
The plumber who attended  said there was no water leak and the problem lay with the boiler. I accept 
Mrs Cs evidence that he didnt do any significant work  other than trying temporarily to alleviate the 
water flow from the leak, and that what she paid was his call out charge. So I think its fair and 
reasonable that BGI should reimburse this to Mrs C.
BGIs engineers came  on 14, 15, 16 and 17 January 2018.  They replaced the PRV but then other 
problems emerged  which they dealt with, including  the radiator which  had developed a pinhole leak.  
Its not unusual that other problems emerge after the initial  one is dealt with. I cant  say that the issues 
that arose after 14 January  2019 were the result of faulty workmanship by BGIs engineers.
The misdiagnosis  by the first engineer on 11 January 2018 meant there was a gap between then and 
14 January 2019 before  BGI started to repair  the faults. However water damage had started before 11 
January, and continued  after 14 January until all the faults were rectified. This damage would have to 
have been repaired  in any event, and I cant say that this damage  was significantly increased  by this 
gap.
I do think the distress and inconvenience Mrs C suffered  was increased  by the misdiagnosis of the 
first BGI engineer, and then the three day gap during  which nothing happened but the leak continued. 
In recognition of that I think the £100  compensation BGI paid should be increased  to £200, inclusive 
of the £100 already paid.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mrs C or from BGI by 8 March 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to order 
British Gas Insurance Limited  to:
1.reimburse to Mrs C the £108 call out charge she had to pay her own plumber; and
2.pay Mrs C a further £100 compensation, in addition to the £100  it has already paid her, as 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience its failure to diagnose the fault correctly 
caused her.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8716114