K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI) didnt  help them switch to a 
lower interest rate on their mortgage  sooner,  and that they have lost out on the potential  
savings this couldve provided. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with BOI in 2006.  The mortgage was originally  on a 
repayment basis and had a discounted  variable interest rate for two years. 
In 2008, when the initial interest rate deal expired they fixed their interest  rate for a further 
two years.  BOI has said that in 2009  Mr and Mrs C requested that their mortgage  be 
switched to interest only payments. It agreed  and this change was put in place. In April 2010,  
when the fixed  rate period  ended, as per the terms of the agreement in 2008, the interest  
rate changed to BOIs  Standard Variable Rate (SVR). The mortgage remained on this rate 
until 2019 when  Mr and Mrs C spoke  to BOI and arranged  a new fixed rate. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to BOI that it hadnt  helped them  to switch onto a better interest 
rate sooner,  or told them  they could do so. They said theyd called BOI in 2016 looking for 
assistance but that BOI didnt explain that it mayve been able to offer lower interest rates at 
that time.  Mr and Mrs C feel BOI had a duty to do so and that theyve  paid more  than they 
needed to as a result.
BOI said it had listened to a call Mr C made to it in April 2016 to discuss  a new interest rate. 
It said converting the account  back to a repayment basis and extending  the term were also 
discussed. It said its representative began by taking  details of income and expenditure and 
explained an underwriter  would need  to look at Mr and Mrs Cs situation. They attempted  to 
do that during  the call but when they returned to speak to Mr C the call had been 
disconnected. BOI said it didnt think it had done  anything wrong during  that call. And it had 
no record of any further contact to discuss the account until the new rate was agreed in 
2019. So it hadnt done anything wrong  by continuing to apply the SVR.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  and asked our service  to look into the complaint. An investigator 
considered what  had happened. Having done  so he didnt think BOI had done anything  
wrong. He felt it had handled the call in 2016  correctly. And he considered it was not the 
responsibility of BOI to actively  promote alternative interest  rates. Rather he felt it was an 
account holders  responsibility  to discuss  this with a lender.  And as Mr and Mrs C hadnt 
contacted BOI again for a few years after the call in 2016, he didnt think BOI was wrong to 
continue to charge  the SVR. 
Mr and Mrs C did not agree with the investigators opinion as they still felt BOI shouldve 
done more to tell them about other  interest  rate products that mayve been  available to them. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no requirement for BOI to monitor Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage account and provide 
ongoing advice.  Customers have varying needs and requirements which can change  over 
time. BOI cant  reasonably be expected to anticipate what was best for Mr and Mrs C 
unprompted. 
Ref: DRN83923132Much like not being required to provide ongoing advice, BOI was not obliged to tell Mr and 
Mrs C directly about other interest  rate deals that may have been available  to them.  How a 
business chooses to promote interest  rates is at its discretion.  And BOI has said that 
information about available rates is available online and by phone, which  I dont think  is 
unreasonable. 
In 2018 BOI, along with other lenders, did commit to contact some customers  that were on 
its SVR and other reversion rates to discuss the options available  to them by the end of that 
year. But this was only customers who were  ineligible to take a new rate. BOI has explained 
that Mr and Mrs C were  not ineligible  which I think is supported  by them  moving to a new 
rate in 2019   so this commitment didnt apply to them.  
So overall I think its reasonable that BOI would have expected Mr and Mrs C to approach  it 
if they wanted advice or to change their interest rate deal.
Mr and Mrs C argue that this was their intention in 2016. They say that during the call the 
adviser was only concerned with gathering information about  their income and expenditure 
and made  no mention  of a lower interest rate potentially being an option available  to them.  
And that if they had, they couldve got a better rate and saved a lot of money.
Ive listened to the call. Mr C said on the call that he was interested in switching the 
mortgage back to repayment as well a possible term extension  and a new interest  rate 
product. I think the adviser correctly believed Mr and Mrs C were interested  in all of those 
options. And the adviser didnt say that any of these  options werent available.  They  instead 
explained that more information would be needed  before  they could say what options might  
be available.  I dont  think the adviser was wrong to explain this and I dont  agree with Mr and 
Mrs C that a change  of interest rate was not mentioned.
Mr and Mrs C are correct  that the adviser did then ask for details of income and expenditure 
rather than listing the interest rates generally available.  But I think this was reasonable 
because, as BOI had said, it needed  to know more about Mr and Mrs Cs current  situation 
before it could provide advice or information  about  the options  available specifically to them. 
The call was unfortunately disconnected before  any options could be discussed.  
Mr and Mrs C have said that during the call it shouldve  been clear they were asking for help 
with repayments,  and that BOI shouldve done more to help them  during this difficult period.
Lenders do have  a responsibility to treat customers experiencing  financial difficulties fairly. 
But they need to know about  any difficulties. And based on what  Ive heard  I dont think BOI 
handled the call incorrectly. 
The nature of the enquiry  was made  clear   that Mr and Mrs C were  interested  in 
understanding their options. There wasnt any indication that they were struggling to make  
repayments. Mr C said he and Mrs C were interested  in changing  the terms of their current  
mortgage. And switching  the mortgage payment back to a repayment basis  from interest 
only wouldve involved  a significant  increase in their mortgage repayments  - something  Mr C 
acknowledged and indicated he was keen to explore  indicating  the affordability  of 
repayments as they were  at the time wasnt an issue.
Ref: DRN83923133So overall I dont  think BOI did anything wrong  in terms of how the call in April 2016 was 
handled. And, as it was cut short, I dont think it could reasonably have been expected to 
change Mr and Mrs Cs interest  rate without  further  discussion and a proper application.  
Under the terms of the agreement BOI couldnt  do this  even if it was to Mr and Mrs Cs 
benefit  without their agreement.
Ive seen a copy  of BOIs contact notes and it doesnt appear Mr and Mrs C got back in 
touch about this until 2019  when  a full application  was made. So I dont think it has made an 
error by continuing to apply the SVR to their account  until that application was completed.
my final decision
While Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs C, for the reasons given above, I dont uphold  this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8392313