K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Ms J complains  that National Savings and Investments  wont  pay to it 
the proceeds of two accounts into which Ms J had invested. The estate is being  represented  
in this complaint  by Ms Js executors who are also her sisters.
background
Ms Js sister says that Ms J had invested £17,800 in a fixed interest savings certificate  and 
£1,000 in an index linked  savings certificate, both with NS&I,  in July 2003.  Ms J passed  
away in June 2016 and, since then, the estate has been trying to get a payment  from those  
accounts. Ms Js sister then complained to NS&I. It said that it was unable to trace  any 
certificates under the reference numbers  that Ms Js sister had provided  (but it paid her 
some compensation in relation to another certificate  that doesnt form part of this complaint).  
The estate  wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response so a complaint was made to this service.  
Ms Js sister has also made a complaint about  her own savings certificates with NS&I   but 
that complaint  needs to be dealt with separately.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He wasnt  satisfied 
that Ms J had invested in the certificates.
The estate  has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. Ms Js sister 
says, in summary, that: 
although NS&I  cant find the certificates  or investments, that doesnt mean that the 
investments werent made  and it has previously denied  holding investments but 
then discovered them;
NS&I has no intention  of paying  out the monies  owed  to the estate;
the estate wants  to know where  the invested  monies were  placed; 
the documents held by the estate show that the investments were made, even 
though NS&I cant find them; and
she transferred her savings certificates  with another provider to NS&I in March  2004 
(and it made a mistake with the value of one of the certificates  which  it then 
corrected).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate  has provided copies of two application  forms  from July 2003 for the purchase of 
savings certificates with NS&I  the first to invest £17,800 in a fixed interest savings 
certificate and the other to invest £1,000 in an index linked savings certificate. Ms Js sister 
says that she knows  that Ms J invested in those  savings certificates. But theres no other  
evidence to show that she did so. 
NS&I says that it has made extensive traces within its accounting history for those money 
movements and found nothing at all from 2003 for those amounts or reference numbers. 
And it says that payments  of more than £10,000  werent accepted in that way in July 2003. 
So it says that the evidence suggests that it never received those  payments.
NS&I has told the estate that the payments could be linked to Ms Js savings certificates with 
another provider  and its possible  that those certificates were encashed and submitted with 
Ref: DRN83400212the applications to purchase the NS&I  certificates. And it says that it received an application 
in August 2003 for reinvestment from savings certificates with another  provider  with a total 
value of £18,900.10 (which could be the £18,800 from Ms J plus interest). But it says that it 
repaid those certificates in November 2016. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Ms J did apply to NS&I  in July 
2003 for savings  certificates with values of £17,800  and £1,000. I consider it to be more 
likely than not that Ms J encashed her savings certificates with another provider in August 
2003 and reinvested £18,900.10 in savings  certificates with NS&I.  But NS&I  has provided 
evidence to show that the value of those certificates  was repaid in November 2016.  
Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  evidence to show that NS&I has acted incorrectly  in 
connection with the applications  about which the estate has complained.  So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require NS&I to pay any 
money to the estate  of the late Ms J  or to take any other action in response to this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2019.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8340021