K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) to 
Mr T. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004 . The policy was sold to 
Mr T by phone.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  HSBC disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered what HSBC has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint. This is 
because, from what  we know of HSBCs telephone sales at the time,  Mr T wouldnt have 
been given full-enough  information about  the costs and benefits of the PPI. I think this would 
have mattered to Mr T because he had other means to help meet his living  costs,  on top of 
any sick pay or redundancy pay hed have got from his job. In particular he has shown us 
evidence of a pension he was receiving. So, if hed been given fuller information,  I dont think  
hed have decided  the PPI was worth the expense.  
I think Mr T has lost out as a result  of HSBC's failings in this case   I dont think  hed have 
taken out the policy  if hed been properly informed.
fair compensation
HSBC should  put Mr T in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.HSBC should find out how much Mr T would  have  owed  when he closed his credit card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mr T owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr T made  a successful  claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what  Mr T would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed his it until he gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN89523422C.If  when  HSBC  works out what Mr T would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr T 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, HSBC  should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr T paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr T 
wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.HSBC should tell Mr T what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr T compensation  in accordance with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8952342