K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Harvey and Thompson  Limited  (H&T)  irresponsibly lent to him. Mr S says H&T 
hasnt been able to provide any evidence that it assessed the affordability of the lending  or 
made checks into his financial circumstances.
background
This complaint is about one short-term loan H&T provided to Mr S in August  2011. 
The loan taken  by Mr S was a debit card loan product.  While  we dont have all of the 
information about the lending, we do know Mr Ss loan was for £300.  And with what I know 
about H&Ts debit  card loan product, its likely that when Mr S borrowed the money,  he 
provided H&T with a cheque or cheques, backed  by a cheque  guarantee card.  The amount 
borrowed would include the capital sum and an amount of interest.  H&T would then cash the 
cheque or cheques on an agreed  date or dates.  In Mr Ss case, it would seem that for every  
£100 borrowed, he received £87 in cash  a total of £261. So, in effect, Mr S was charged 
£13 for every £100 he borrowed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Because of the limited  information available  
from when the loan was taken, our adjudicator couldnt say whether the checks made  by the 
business were proportionate. But on reviewing  Mr Ss bank statements they didnt think  the 
lending was unaffordable  when compared  to Mr Ss income. 
Mr S disagreed. He says his bank statement would have shown he was overdrawn on his 
account. So, the lending shouldnt have been  given. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me in my role as ombudsman to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
H&T needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that H&T should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN86838282the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that H&T was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loan  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint.  Ill explain why. 
As Ive said above,  H&T has only been  able to provide very limited information  from the time 
the loan was given. But I dont find this surprising given the length of time since  the 
borrowing and bearing in mind that businesses arent expected  to keep records indefinitely.  
So, the lack of evidence from H&T doesnt  mean  I automatically uphold the complaint. I can 
reasonably decide a case on the information  that we do have, what  we know about the 
business, and what I think is most  likely to have happened. 
In this case we cant  know for sure what H&T did check about Mr Ss financial circumstances 
from the time of the borrowing. It has told us that it would have asked for Mr Ss bank 
statements for the 30 days prior to the borrowing  to establish Mr Ss income  and 
expenditure. Ive seen  a copy of Mr Ss bank  statement from July 2011. From this it looks 
like his monthly income was £1,135 and Mr S was using his agreed  overdraft  facility  of 
£2,750. 
From this information I dont think it was unreasonable for H&T to have lent to Mr S as the 
repayments looked affordable when taking into account what  we know of his income. 
As Ive said above,  in the early stages  of a lending relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. And given this was the first loan Mr S had taken with 
H&T, I wouldnt have expected it to have carried out any further  in-depth  checks or taken 
additional steps to verify  the information it had. I think it was reasonable for H&T to have 
relied upon that information in making its decision about whether to lend to Mr S. And so it 
follows that I cant say that H&T has done  something wrong in lending to Mr S. 
I appreciate my findings are likely to disappoint  Mr S. But I hope my explanation will help 
him understand how Ive reached  this conclusion. 
Ref: DRN86838283my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683828