K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly  declined  their 
claim on their property  insurance policy for damage to their roof during a storm.
background
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs K contacted Lloyds to report  damage to their property due to 
a storm. They said the storm had caused  roof tiles on their garage to fall into their 
neighbours property and other roof tiles were  only being  held up by steel  guttering. 
Lloyds hasnt disputed  that a storm occurred.  But after it arranged  for a surveyor  to visit 
Mr and Mrs Ks property,  it declined their claim as it said the survey and photographs 
showed existing  gradual damage  to the roof. In particular,  it said the full length of the eaves  
had been damaged by long term water ingress and there had been nail fatigue.  It thought  
from the survey that the tiles had slipped towards  the gutter due to gradual damage  and the 
storm had only highlighted existing  problems. So it didnt  think the dominant cause of the 
damage was the storm.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  agree as they think the dominant cause of the damage was the storm. 
Theyve explained the property is 120 years old so they cant  show  it was maintained 
throughout this period. And Lloyds knew the age of the property before it agreed to provide 
insurance. Theyve also said they purchased  the property earlier  that year and paid for a 
homebuyers report which theyve provided  a copy of. They  say the report  shows  there  was 
no damage to the garage roof  only the main roof of the property (which is a separate 
building)and that damage was repaired prior to the purchase. 
Mr and Mrs K paid a third party contractor to repair the roof and they would like Lloyds to 
cover the claim and reimburse  them. 
Lloyds has given us photos of the damaged roof and a copy of the survey.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Whilst she thought there  was a storm and the 
damage was consistent with storm damage, she didnt think the dominant  cause  of the 
damage was the storm. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators  opinion. They 
thought she shouldve spoken to the surveyor who provided the homebuyers report in 
March 2018  around the time they bought the property. Theyve said their surveyor  is 
adamant the only reason  the tiles wouldve come off the roof was because  of adverse 
weather conditions. And they dont think the surveyor appointed by Lloyds looked at things 
properly. The complaints  been passed to me to reach a decision on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed 
but Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN81845212Mr and Mrs Ks claim is for storm damage. They say the garage roof was damaged  during a 
storm in December 2018. Lloyds seems to accept there were storm conditions on that 
particular day. And having thought about  what both sides  have said, Im satisfied the 
damage was consistent with storm damage. But, Ive looked carefully at the report and the 
pictures taken by the surveyor appointed  by Lloyds. And Im not persuaded the storm was 
the main or dominant cause of the damage.
Lloyds surveyors report found there  had been long term deterioration  including to the 
eaves of the roof. And this had caused the tiles to slip towards the gutter. It said the storm 
had just highlighted these existing problems rather than causing  it. The surveyor  also took 
pictures of the roof. These show the loose  tiles and that some  patch  repairs  had taken place 
in various places along the roof which suggests  there were existing problems. And I can see 
from the invoice  Mr and Mrs K have given  us, the works that have been carried out after the 
claim was declined are consistent  with the long-term damage Lloyds has described.
I accept the storm may have made  the damage  to the roof worse  but I dont think this 
means it wasnt subject to gradual  deterioration  prior to the storm. Whilst I understand 
Mr and Mrs K are adamant there  werent  any existing problems with the roof before  the 
storm, I havent seen  enough information from the time of the claim to agree. So overall, Im 
satisfied from the report  and the pictures  that the main or dominant  cause of the damage to 
the roof was gradual deterioration.  
Mr and Mrs Ks policy has exclusions and limitations to the cover provided.  And under the 
section of the policy explaining what isnt covered,  the terms say it doesnt  cover loss or 
damage caused by something that happens  gradually, wear and tear, or a lack of 
maintenance. So I consider Lloyds has declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K have given  us their homebuyers report from March  2018 which  
they say shows  the garage roof was in a good  state  of repair.  But having looked carefully at 
this report, I dont agree. Whilst the homebuyers  report doesnt specifically mention the 
issues highlighted in the report provided  by Lloyds, it does  suggest  there  were  maintenance 
issues to the garage that required repair. This included dampness to the chimney breast  and 
repair work needed to timber joinery. So I dont think it goes far enough to disagree with 
Lloyds report.  In any event, considering the amount  of time thats passed since  the 
homebuyers report was written, overall,  I find the report  Lloyds relied on to be more  
persuasive.
Mr and Mrs K havent given us anything to show what repairs  if any  had taken place 
between March 2018 and December 2018. So Im not satisfied the garage roof was free 
from any existing damage at the time of the claim. I understand Mr and Mrs K have said the 
surveyor who carried out their homebuyers report has told them  the only cause of the 
damage in December 2018 could  be adverse  weather.  But they havent given us anything  to 
support this.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs K think the surveyor appointed by Lloyds hasnt acted 
independently. But Ive not seen  anything to suggest that. And Im satisfied the report  from 
the surveyor is something Lloyds and I can rely on. The property was inspected  and the 
report written   around the time of the damage. And it commented on the condition  of the 
roof at that point.
Ref: DRN81845213I understand Mr and Mrs K are unhappy  theyve been paying for the insurance policy  when 
their claim was declined. So they think it was a waste of money. But thats  not something I 
can consider as part of this complaint   and theyll need to contact the business  who sold 
them the policy if they think they were  mis-sold  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8184521