K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Collingwood Insurance Services (U.K.) Limited charged him a New 
Business Fee for his motor insurance policy. He wants a refund and compensation.  Mr L is 
represented in this matter by his mother,  Mrs L. 
background
Mr L took out a policy with Collingwood  Insurance Services (U.K.) Limited, an intermediary, 
through an online comparison site. He then cancelled within 14 days. But Collingwood 
charged him a New Business Fee of £68.50. It said this was non-refundable.  Mrs L said this 
wasnt made clear when they took out the policy. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Collingwood had made it clear that the New Business Fee was non-refundable on the online 
journey when Mr L applied for cover and in its Terms of Business. 
Mrs L replied that the fee wasnt made  clear  at application on the comparison site, only in 
Collingwoods Terms  of Business. She thought she should be able to cancel the policy within  
the cooling off period  for a pro-rata  basis. Mrs L asked for the complaint to be reviewed, so 
its come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr L and Mrs Ls frustration.  They  took out learner driver cover  through 
Collingwood. Then Mr L passed his practical  driving  test and so the cover wasnt  then 
needed and they cancelled. But the premium refund had deductions for time on cover and 
the New Business Fee. 
Mrs L looked for a policy for Mr L through an online comparison site. Shes provided us with 
screenshots of what was shown about Collingwoods  benefits  which  included  No 
Cancellation Fee.  But the screenshots also warn the consumer that all policy fees arent  
shown. They are advised to check the policy documents before purchase.
Collingwood has explained that if the consumer selects a particular policy quote for purchase 
they are then taken  to the providers, in this case Collingwoods, own website to complete  
the purchase. Collingwood has told us that its not possible  to buy the policy without going 
through its website.  I know Mrs L disagrees, but I think this is usual practice.  So I think  Mrs L 
would have been directed  to Collingwoods website to make  the purchase. 
Collingwood has provided us with screenshots of the online journey Mrs L then completed to 
buy the policy. I can see that she was provided  with the price breakdown for the policy.  This 
included the non-refundable New Business Fee. I can also see that Mrs L was asked to tick 
that she agreed to Collingwoods  Terms  of Business before purchase.  These were made 
available online and included  the non-refundable intermediary fees clearly set out. 
Ref: DRN85853192So, as far as I can see, Mrs L was provided  with clear information about  the New Business  
Fee on Collingwoods  site. This was clearly marked as non-refundable. I dont think its 
unusual or unfair for intermediaries  to charge a reasonable  fee for the administration 
required to set up a policy. I think Collingwoods  fee was fair and reasonable as its in 
keeping with others Ive seen. 
Mr L was charged the fee and for his time on cover pro-rata. So I think  thats fair and 
reasonable. And I cant say that Collingwood needs to do anything further.
If Mrs L thinks that the fee should have been made  clear on the comparison website, then 
she should complain  to it directly. As its a different business, I cant  consider this here. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8585319