K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a Midland  Capital  Protected Bond by HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc. She says she was led to believe  the bond was likely to provide very good returns  
but she only actually  received back the minimum available.
background
Mrs S was advised to start her bond  in 1997. At the time she was married,  with three 
dependent children and living with her husband  in a mortgaged property. She had recently 
received around  £13,500 from a redundancy but was back  working on a part-time basis, as 
shed been before. 
Shed never invested before and the adviser  recorded that she had a cautious attitude  to 
risk and was looking  for capital growth with no requirement for an income  from the invested 
money over the period  in question. She already held some money  just under £5,000  in a 
TESSA, which she was planning to add to. 
The recommended  bond was a capital guaranteed product  that provided a return  based  
upon the performance of the FTSE 100 share  index. It had a five-year term and was 
designed to pay anything between a minimum of 115% and a maximum  of 160% of the 
amount invested,  depending upon how the index performed. 
Mrs S invested £5,000.  She says she received back only £5,500. But as the 115% minimum 
would have given  her £5,750 I think its more likely than not that she received this slightly  
higher amount. 
She says she was disappointed because  this level of return didnt reflect what  she been told 
about the bonds likely performance. She says she complained at the time and then followed 
this up more formally some  years later with HSBC  in 2017, at which point it issued  its final 
response. 
HSBC felt that the recommendation to invest £5,000 had been broadly suitable and 
affordable for Mrs S, given her recorded requirements. It thought the bond was consistent  
with her attitude to risk and it appeared the adviser  had explained his reasons  for the 
recommendation and the risks involved.  Mrs S had signed a declaration to that effect  and 
while alternatives might have achieved better returns that could only be concluded with the 
benefit of hindsight.
Mrs S didnt accept HSBCs view so referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator reached a different conclusion to HSBCs and felt the complaint should be 
upheld. In short, he wasnt  persuaded that Mrs S, as a novice  investor, had been given 
sufficient information  to put her in an informed position to understand how the bond worked. 
He didnt feel that there was enough  to show  that alternatives had been fully considered.  He 
felt that Mrs S should therefore be compensated by way of a comparison with our no-risk 
benchmark of fixed rate bonds, plus interest.
HSBC didnt agree. It felt that the product hadnt  been particularly complex,  with its return  
determined by a fairly  straightforward link with the FTSE100, and that Mrs S wouldve 
received product literature that made this clear.  It also noted that she wouldve had a 
Ref: DRN81451302reasonable understanding of the alternatives available, having  already  invested in a TESSA  
to which  she was planning to contribute further. 
HSBC felt ultimately that Mrs Ss complaint was one of poor performance, reiterating that the 
bond had been a suitable means by which to potentially achieve  better  returns  than those 
available on deposit. 
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters been  referred  to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons; although I should stress 
that I think this is a finely balanced  case. 
The recommendation guaranteed Mrs S a positive return. It left her with a reasonable 
amount of her money on deposit and she clearly found it affordable as she maintained  the 
investment for its five year term. And it was noted in the fact find that Mrs S husband, 
although not on a particularly high income, looked after the mortgage  and household bills. 
So, it could certainly  be said that Mrs S was in a position to take a degree of risk with the 
return that might be achieved with the invested £5,000.
But the money came from a redundancy payment, and she was only just into a new job, from 
which she took home just over £300  a month.  Her and her husband had three  young  
children. Shed never invested before and had previously put money  only into her TESSA.  
She also held a personal loan with a balance outstanding of over £5,000,  with monthly  
repayments of £136  and another three  years left to run.
Given these circumstances Im not persuaded that Mrs S wouldve have wanted  to take this 
sort of risk with the return on her money  if shed really appreciated what  she could effectively 
lose in returns if the stockmarket, of which  she had no experience,  didnt perform  as hoped. 
The headline  rates  of potential total return  between 115% and 160% - might well have 
appeared very appealing  on the face of it, especially if accompanied by the sort of very 
positive sale process  described  by Mrs S. But in reality the maximum  possible  return  
equated to around  9.5% per year at a time when the base rate was at 6.5% and rising. The 
minimum return, which it seems is what Mrs S received, was the equivalent to only around 
2.8% per year. 
I think if Mrs S had fully understood how the bond worked and the realistic  likelihood  of 
achieving more over the five years than she would if shed considered  other savings 
methods that guaranteed  her capital, Im not convinced, on balance, that shed have agreed 
to put more than 40% of her available money (after  the planned further TESSA contribution) 
into the bond.
This being so, I think the complaint should  be upheld and compensation paid to Mrs S. 
Ref: DRN81451303fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mrs S as close  to the position she would probably  now be in if she had not been  given  
unsuitable advice.  
I take the view that Mrs S would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs S circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  HSBC do?
To compensate Mrs S fairly,  HSBC  must:
Compare the performance of Mrs S investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
HSBC should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Midland  
Capital  
protected 
Bondmaturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. For clarity, while 
there is some uncertainty on this point  because of the lack of documentation,  I think its fair 
to assume the actual  value was £5,750, in line with the bonds minimum return. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  HSBC should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mrs S wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. 
Ref: DRN81451304The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mrs S 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mrs S would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold the complaint. My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  provide  details  of its calculation to Mrs S in a clear,  simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145130