K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that London General  Insurance  Company Limited failed  to handle his claim 
on his warranty insurance promptly.
 
background
Mr A purchased an extended  warranty for his laptop provided by London  General Insurance. 
He made  a claim on the policy  in April 2018 and the laptop was collected  for repair  on 
23 April. It was returned on 17 May 2018. During  this time Mr A said he called six times to 
confirm when he could  expect to receive  the laptop  back. He said each time he was given 
different timeframes for its return which didnt happen.
Mr A complained to London General Insurance about the time it took for the laptop to be 
repaired. It said it was sorry that it had taken longer than it would  have liked. And explained  
when its engineer first replaced the screen they failed  to realise the replacement  was faulty. 
This meant a new one was needed and had to be ordered in. This also took longer to arrive 
than it expected  adding  to the time for the total repair.
Our investigator looked at Mr As complaint and said he felt the delays were beyond  what  
would be considered reasonable for this repair. And it was fair to say this had clearly  
inconvenienced Mr A with both the number of phone calls hes needed to make to chase the 
repair and the fact he was without the laptop  for an extended period. 
He recommended that together with the apology  provided by London General Insurance,  it 
should pay Mr A £50.00  to reflect the impact  of the added delays with the repair.  Mr A 
accepted this.
London General  Insurance  said it felt the repairs were still carried  out within a reasonable 
time and didnt agree it should  pay the £50.00 so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint for 
much the same reasons as the investigator.
Mr A made a number  of calls to try and confirm  when  his laptop would be repaired and 
retuned. And I think  it is clear with this that not having it available was causing  
inconvenience to him and his family.  
London General  Insurance  said it doesnt feel that 17 working days is an unreasonable 
amount of time for it to repair  Mr As laptop.  While  I appreciate  it is only working days that it 
can complete the repairs within,  the laptop  was unavailable to Mr A for the duration and not 
just working days.
When London General Insurance first repaired the screen, its engineer failed to realise the 
inside of the screen was also damaged. This meant other parts  needed ordering and this 
added to the time that Mr A was without it. He has explained how his family use this regularly 
with his son relying on it for school work  and exams. Not having this for more  time than was 
necessary has clearly added to this inconvenience.
Ref: DRN80199742I think London General  Insurance could  have managed Mr As expectations from the start 
around the repair time. In not doing so Mr A was left to call repeatedly to chase the repair 
and return date. This is inconvenience above what I think is fair to expect  when making a 
claim. I feel an award of £50.00 in recognition of this is fair to reflect this impact.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint.  
London General  Insurance  Company Limited is required to pay Mr A £50.00  for the 
inconvenience caused with the delays in its repair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8019974