K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Tradewise Insurance Company  Limited cancelled his commercial  motor 
insurance policy. Hes also unhappy with the cancellation charge applied  and the refund of 
premium he received. He wants a refund  of £700. 
background
At the renewal of his policy, Tradewise asked Mr Bs broker  for him to provide validating 
documents. It allowed 45 days for these to be provided but extended this to 62. They  didnt 
arrive by the required date and Tradewise sent a notification of cancellation letter  and then 
the policy cancelled.  Mr B received refund of policy premium calculated for not exceeding 
three months cover on short-term rates. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Tradewise had fairly and reasonably cancelled the policy according to the policy terms and 
conditions. But he thought it should  have  done  this sooner and so provided Mr B with a 
greater refund. He thought it should give Mr B a further refund of premium with interest.
Tradewise replied that it was being penalised for allowing Mr B extra time to provide the 
required documents. It said 45 days notice was a guideline. It said delays in the complaint 
were outside  its control. It asked for an ombudsmans review,  so the complaint has come  to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr B has concerns about  the service provided by his brokers  and another  
insurer. But I can only consider his complaint about Tradewise here as these are separate  
businesses. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Tradewise requested various documents from Mr B and gave him 45 days to provide them.  I 
think thats fair and reasonable  as Tradewise is entitled to assess  the risks it covers  and also 
to validate the policy.  Mr B was unable to produce these documents within the extended  time 
permitted. And so the policy  was cancelled following seven days  notice. 
I think this cancellation  was made  according to the policy terms and conditions.  And so I 
cant say it was unfair or unreasonable.  
Tradewise had given  Mr B 45 days to provide the documents. It then extended this to 62 
days. Whilst this might  have been  intended  to benefit Mr B by giving him extra time to 
provide his documents, the consequence was adverse  for Mr B. 
This is because the refund of premium  following cancellation was calculated  on short term 
rates for a period not exceeding  three  months (55% charge of premium). If Tradewise had 
cancelled the policy two days earlier, then Mr B would have been charged for a period not 
exceeding two months  (40%  charge of premium). The difference  for Mr B was £123.80. 
Ref: DRN85366542I dont think this was fair and reasonable. Mr B had been with Tradewise  for 12 years. I think  
that if Tradewise  had acted on its initial timescale, Mr B would have had a greater refund. So 
I think Tradewise has unfairly  penalised  Mr B by not cancelling the policy earlier.  
Tradewise said that delays in the complaint  were outside its control and so it shouldnt have 
to pay interest on any further  refund. But I disagree. There was a gap between  the policy 
cancellation and Mr Bs complaint about it, but this doesnt mean that Mr B wasnt entitled to 
raise a complaint.  Mr B brought his complaint to us within the time allowed. Mr B has been 
without his money for some time due to Tradewises error. So I think  it should reasonably 
add interest to this further refund of premium. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tradewise Insurance 
Company Limited  to do the following:
1.Pay Mr B the further refund of premium  he would have received if the policy  had been 
cancelled within the two month  period, adding interest at 8% simple per year from the 
date of cancellation to the date of settlement. 
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Tradewise to withhold income tax from that interest.  It 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8536654