K820x#14complaint
Miss C complained that Southern Rock  Insurance Company unfairly  cancelled  her motor  
insurance policy.
background
Miss C had an accident and reported  it to Southern Rock. But Southern  Rock  cancelled her 
policy and wouldnt deal with her claim or refund  her any premiums. They said this was 
because she said shed  been commuting at the time, but her policy  didnt cover  this. 
Miss C brought  her complaint to us. The investigator thought that on the evidence that 
Southern Rock had, they hadnt been unreasonable to cancel her policy,  but Miss C 
disagreed so her case was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After Miss C had a car accident she phoned Southern Rock to report  it. English isnt her first 
language and when during the call there were communication  difficulties she authorised  a 
relative to speak to Southern Rock on her behalf,  though she remained present. Through her 
relative, she told Southern  Rock  that the accident  had happened  when she was coming 
home from work. Miss Cs policy didnt cover her commuting to or from work, so they 
cancelled her policy. 
Ive looked at her policy and it says on page 17 that Southern Rock do have the right to 
cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during  Your  Policy  Period, where  there is . a 
valid reason for doing so.  Valid reasons allowing us to immediately cancel may include 
but are not limited  to. g. If You are in breach  of any of the Terms, Exceptions,  Exclusions, 
Conditions or Endorsements contained in or endorsed upon this Policy. 
Her policy covers  use only for social, domestic  and pleasure purposes.  and that excludes  
Travelling to and from a place of employment.
When Miss C brought her complaint to this service, she was represented by her friend  Mr F. 
He said as follows. There had been  a misunderstanding due to the language difficulty, and 
so Miss C had made a mistake when she told Southern Rock at first that she'd been  coming  
home from work on the day of the accident. Instead  shed been on holiday from work and 
had been visiting  Mr F and helping him do some work on his house and garden,  but this was 
only voluntary. Mr F said that Miss C only worked  three days  a week and that she went  there 
by train and didnt use her car for commuting there.
Southern Rock asked her for proof from her employer that she had asked for, and taken, 
holiday from work at the time of the incident. She did show Southern  Rock  a screenshot  of 
an email she suggested  was from her employer saying  that she had been on holiday then.  
But this seemed to be a personal email, rather than one officially from the employer 
company or firm, and didnt include her request for the holiday. So Southern  Rock  didnt 
think it was good  enough to support Miss Cs account of events. 
Ref: DRN89448642Ive listened to the recording of her phone call when Miss C reported the incident to Southern 
Rock. She passed  her phone to a relative  and authorised them to speak to Southern Rock 
on her behalf.  
Southern Rock asked her about the incident.  She said, through her relative, that it happened 
at about 6.25pm when she was coming home  from work, she used  her car to commute five 
days a week and sometimes weekends  too, and that her normal work  hours  were  9am to 
6pm. I think that Southern Rock asked  clear and direct questions. Miss Cs relative  can be 
heard speaking to her in the background and translating, and theres no reason for me to 
believe that they didnt understand each other. Shed authorised her relative to speak for her 
and so I think that Southern Rock were entitled to rely on that. So I dont think  that recording 
suggests that Miss C answered Southern Rocks  questions wrongly as a result of 
misunderstanding.   
I dont think that a post dated email from her said employer,  and her friend  Mr Fs account of 
events, are enough to override  the first account of events that Miss C gave. And Southern 
Rock have given  her the chance to provide persuasive evidence  that she wasnt commuting 
at the relevant time,  which  was reasonable  of them, but she hasnt provided  that. And so I 
think that, on the evidence available to Southern  Rock, on the balance of probabilities  it was 
not unreasonable for them to decide  that Miss C was using  her car for commuting when the 
accident happened. And as she wasnt using the car in compliance with the policy terms, 
Southern Rock were  entitled to cancel the policy and decline her claim and were  not obliged  
to refund her premiums. 
I do see that Miss C has found  it frustrating  that Southern Rock cancelled her policy, but I 
dont think that they have  done anything wrong and so I dont ask them  to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8944864