K820x#14complaint
Miss F is unhappy that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC added a Credit Fraud  Avoidance System 
(CIFAS) marker against her name.  And shes unable to open  another  bank account. 
background
Miss F had two bank  accounts with Barclays Bank. 
On the 1 May 2018 two payments were  made  into Miss Fs current account of £1850 and 
£1790.
On the 4 May 2018 Barclays received notification from another  bank, Ill call T, who said their 
customer didnt authorise the payments to Miss Fs account. By the time Barclays  received 
the indemnities the fraudulent funds  had been  removed. As a consequence Barclays 
decided to immediately  close Miss Fs accounts.
Ive listed the two fraudulent credits below:
Date: Transaction: Amount:
1 May 2019  at 5:19 pm Inward fraudulent  credit £1850
1 May 2019  at 5:22 pm Inward fraudulent  credit £1790
 
Before the money  entered Miss Fs account  she had a balance  of £91.32. And soon  after the 
credits were  transferred in to Miss Fs account  they were removed. Between  7:03pm on the 
1 May 2019  and 7:24pm  on the same day, three  cash withdrawals were  carried  out totalling 
£2,500. And between 7:20pm and 9:51pm  six point  of sale transactions were completed  
totalling just over £250. An outward online transfer   via online banking  to a new payee  
was also made at 7:19pm for £900.
Barclays thought  Miss F had misused  her account so applied  a CIFAS marker. Miss F told 
Barclays:
On the 2 May 2018 she received an email from Barclays saying shed activated a 
new mobile banking   but she found  this strange as shed already set it up previously
She logged in to her mobile banking on the 2 May 2018 and noticed  transactions she 
didnt authorise  so contacted Barclays to raise this
Shes not aware of the two payments totalling £3640 into her account and didnt 
authorise the withdrawals or the online transfer
On reviewing Miss Fs complaint, Barclays thought they could have completed their review  
more quickly and should have returned Miss Fs funds sooner. So they offered Miss F £125 
in compensation.  Miss F didnt accept  this. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Fs complaint and asked both Miss F and Barclays 
further questions. Barclays provided evidence that to carry out the ASD transactions a 
fraudster would need Miss Fs card, PIN and her date of birth.  And for the online banking 
transfer theyd  also require Ms Fs online banking details  including  her membership 
number, passcode and memorable word to log in and set up a new payee.  
Ref: DRN89946762Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint  having looked at the circumstances  of the 
events and the way in which the fraudulent payments were  used  she thought Barclays  had 
sufficient evidence to load the CIFAS marker.  
Miss F didnt agree with the investigators opinion and asked for her complaint to be passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why below. 
Barclays said it applied the CIFAS  marker  because bank T said their customer didnt 
authorise the payments made to Miss Fs account. So Ive looked at whether Barclays was 
fair to apply the marker,  based on the evidence it had and the investigation it carried out and 
what the rules say about applying such markers.
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that Barclays needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint both the police or other relevant law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases  of fraud rather than 
mere suspicion.  In addition, CIFAS guidance  set out businesses  are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.   
Having reviewed Miss Fs version of events and the evidence Barclays  have provided, Im 
satisfied that Barclays  have sufficient evidence for a CIFAS marker to be recorded on her 
file. In coming to this view, Ive taken into account  the following reasons:
Barclays have provided  evidence to show the inward payments received  on the 
1 May 2019  were  fraudulent.
To carry out the unauthorised ASD withdrawals a fraudster would have needed 
access to Miss Fs card, PIN and her date of birth. Miss F says she lost her card. But, 
shes not provided a plausible  explanation for how her PIN and date of birth were 
obtained without  her knowledge. 
Ive not seen a plausible explanation for how a third party could obtain Miss Fs 
online banking log in details  without  her being aware.
Theres a mobile  banking log in from Miss Fs phone on the 2 May 2019 at 7:38am 
but Miss F didnt  report the fraudulent activity until 6:33pm  I think its unlikely, if 
Miss F didnt authorise the transactions and was concerned about further fraudulent  
activity, shed wait for such  a long period before  reporting the fraud.
Taking everything into account,  I find that Barclays have met the burden of proof required by 
CIFAS to add the marker.  So Im not going  to ask them to remove the CIFAS marker. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Fs complaint.  
Ref: DRN89946763Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8994676