K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complained that she was mis-sold  a store card payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) has taken  responsibility  for this 
complaint, so Ill refer to FICL in the rest of this decision.
background
Mrs T bought the policy in May 2004 at the same time as taking out a store card.  FICL said 
that the sale took place in-store, and that Mrs T wasnt advised to take the PPI. Mrs T said 
she wasnt given any information  about the PPI, and didnt know  it had been  added  to the 
card.
The policy cost £1.50 for each  £100 Mrs T owed on her store card.  It provided  life, accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover for Mrs T. If shed successfully claimed on the policy, 
each month  it wouldve  paid out 15% of what she owed on the card when she stopped 
working. This wouldve carried on until she returned  to work or the balance was cleared. The 
policy also included price  and purchase protection cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that the policy  was mis-sold. 
So he didnt uphold the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL sent us a copy of Mrs Ts store card application. From  this I can see that she signed 
the form  separately  from her signature for the credit - to say that she wanted to take out 
the PPI. I think she couldve chosen  not to sign for it. So on balance  I think Mrs T most likely 
was aware of the PPI and chose to take it. I think she probably  just doesnt remember  doing 
so as it was so long ago. 
I dont think FICL advised Mrs T to take out the PPI. But it should still have given her enough 
information for her to decide if the policy was right for her. I think FICL couldve explained the 
cost and benefits more clearly,  but I dont think this wouldve affected Mrs Ts decision to 
take out the policy. 
The sale took place  in a store so I cant know how the salesperson  explained the policy.  The 
cost of the policy was shown  on the application  form as 1.5p for every pound of the monthly  
balance. And theres a reference to a separate document with more  details. But I dont have 
a copy of this. I have a copy  of the PPI policy, but FICL said that this wouldve been sent out 
after the sale. So its not clear what information Mrs T wouldve had when  she took out the 
card and PPI. I also cant say whether the salesperson  clearly  pointed out the main things 
the policy doesnt cover. But I dont think Mrs T wouldve  been  affected by any of these.
Mrs T told us that, when she took out the policy, she wouldve been entitled to sick pay from 
her employer of 12 weeks full pay (rising to 20 weeks full pay fairly soon after she took out 
Ref: DRN80768182the card and PPI).  She didnt mention  having any savings, but said she couldve relied on 
her family and friends  to help out. But their circumstances couldve changed, so I dont think 
their help couldve been guaranteed. So I think Mrs T couldve found  it difficult to make the 
card repayments once her sick pay ended  or if she lost her job.
Overall, although I dont think FICL fully explained the policy, Im not satisfied that Mrs T 
would have acted  differently  and not taken out the PPI  if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection  for her if she was unable to work. This means Mrs T is not worse off as a 
result of what FICL did wrong,  so theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8076818