K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny)  irresponsibly  
gave him loans which he couldnt  afford to pay back.  
background 
Mr G took out 10 instalment loans with Sunny between May 2018 and September  2018. 
It appears that Mr G was unable to fully repay  what he had borrowed and there  is an 
outstanding balance on the final loan.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that it wasnt  wrong for Sunny to have 
given Mr G loans 1 to 3. But at the point of loan 4 Mr Gs borrowing pattern was a cause for 
concern and Sunny shouldve done  more checks. At the point of loan 6 our Adjudicator said 
Sunny shouldve seen that he was persistently relying on these loans and further lending 
wasnt sustainable.
Sunny agreed  with the adjudicators opinion and offered  to write off all interest and charges 
on loans 4 to 10. It said that as there was a balance outstanding  no refund was due to Mr G 
and it would apply  the refund to reduce the outstanding balance.
Mr G didnt accept that although he hasnt set out why he disagrees  with the adjudicator.  
Mr G did send a copy of his credit file and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
So as the complaint hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN84212912the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. It asked Mr G for details  of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Gs credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr G loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. 
I think it is important to set out that what an individual may see on their credit report  is 
different to the information available to a lender. The information  available to lenders is not 
as comprehensive  and may not be up to date.  Having looked at the credit checks that Sunny 
did before  lending Mr G loans 1 to 3 I cant say that there was anything  in them that 
shouldve prompted  more checking.  I think it was reasonable at this stage for Sunny to rely 
on what Mr G was saying about his finances. 
I dont doubt that Mr G was in financial  difficulty but based on the information he gave Sunny 
abut his circumstances for loans  1 to 3 and what Sunny could see from the checks it did, I 
cant say that Sunny  needed to do more  or that it shouldnt have given him the loans.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right in line with what  I would recommend for loans 4 
to 10, so I dont  think I need to say any more  about them.
I appreciate that there is an outstanding balance. Previously, as part of an earlier  offer, 
Sunny agreed  to write  off some of the capital. Mr G has had the benefit  of the money  and so 
I think it is only fair that he pays it back.  I cant ask Sunny to write off the capital balance  but I 
would expect Sunny to arrange an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.  
Ref: DRN84212913So Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint about  loans  4 to 10.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny needs  to buy back the debt if it has been sold on before doing what  Ive set out. If it 
cant buy back the debt it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the following:
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr G as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr G having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move 
to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree  an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr G.
E.Record any adverse  information from Mr Gs credit  file about loans 4 and 5. The 
number of loans taken  from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 10 should  be removed from Mr Gs 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8421291