K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Welcome Financial Services Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a loan with Welcome Financial Services  in 2004 and bought a PPI policy  at the 
same time. The loan included an amount to pay for the PPI. This gave him accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs complaint didnt uphold  it. Mr B disagreed and so his 
complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Welcome Financial Services  recommended  the PPI to Mr B, so it needed to make sure it 
was right for him. I dont think it was.
Mr B was in the armed forces when he applied  for the cover. So, if he was off work  sick or 
after an accident, its most likely Mr B wouldve got full pay until he went back to work or was 
medically retired. And if he lost his job, its most  likely hed have received a very good  
redundancy package. 
So I dont  think Mr B had a strong need for the cover  at all. And I dont think Welcome 
Financial Services shouldve recommended the policy to Mr B. If Mr B had been  properly 
advised by Welcome Financial Services, I dont  think hed have taken  it out. 
Welcome Financial Services  argues  the adjudicator said Mr B was a commanding  officer  
when in fact his payslip from the time of the sale shows he was a sergeant.  I accept it does,  
but this doesnt alter my decision as its based on the fact he was in the armed  forces, not on 
the specific role he held. So he would have been entitled to the benefits  set out above. The 
business also says the deductions  on the payslip show  he needed PPI but for the reasons 
set out above  this comment doesnt  change my conclusion. 
This means  I think  Mr B lost out because  of what Welcome Financial Services  did wrong and 
so it must put things  right.
putting things right
Mr B borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr B needs to get back  the extra  hes paid. 
So, Welcome Financial  Services  should:
Ref: DRN81729542Work  out and pay Mr B the difference between what he paid each month on the 
loan and what he wouldve paid each  month  without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr B paid each month from when he paid 
it until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
If Mr B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Welcome Financial 
Services can take off what he got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Welcome Financial Services  to take off tax from this 
interest. Welcome Financial Services must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and direct  Welcome Financial Services 
Limited to put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or reject 
my decision  before 15 February 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8172954