K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited initially refused to repair his boiler under 
a Home Care policy, which left him without heating.
background
Mr Gs boiler had been regularly serviced by British Gas over several  years  under a Home 
Care policy held by his father. In 2018, Mr G asked to take over the policy  after his father 
moved out of the property. Soon after, a British Gas engineer serviced  the boiler but found it 
unsafe. The engineer said the boiler  couldnt  be repaired, and that because it was Mr Gs 
first service,  any repairs wouldnt be covered  anyway.
Mr G complained to British Gas about  this. Eventually British  Gas agreed to repair the boiler.  
However, Mr G was still unhappy that hed been  without heating  for 30 days, and said this 
had led to mould in his wetroom. British Gas didnt address  his further complaint. 
The following  year,  Mr G had further  problems with the boiler. British  Gas resolved the issue,  
but Mr G again complained that the lack of heating the previous year had led to mould  in his 
wetroom. Hed since had the wetroom replaced. 
A complaint handler at British Gas led Mr G to believe that compensation would be paid for 
this, and asked  him to obtain a breakdown from his contractor to show what  repairs  had 
been needed due to the mould.  Mr G did so, and the contractor confirmed the cost of those 
repairs was £4,015. 
The complaint handler then left British Gas, and Mr Gs complaint was taken over by 
someone else. That complaint handler  concluded  that British  Gas couldnt be held 
responsible for the mould in the wetroom, as British Gas hadnt been  at fault for the boiler  
breaking. However, they recognised that British Gas hadnt been very clear  about its 
position, and so offered Mr G £100  compensation. Unhappy with this, Mr G brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She said British Gas hadnt told 
Mr G that he was taking out a new policy,  so it was reasonable for him to believe he was 
taking over the existing  policy from his father. That being the case, she thought British Gas 
should have carried  out the repair as soon as the initial problems  were  discovered with the 
boiler. She thought British Gas ought to pay Mr G a further £400 compensation for the 
impact this had had on him. She also recommended British Gas pay £4,015 (plus interest) 
for the damage  to the wetroom, as she thought  this likely wouldnt have happened if Mr G 
had had heating. 
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2020. My provisional findings  were:
Did Mr G take out a new contract?
British Gas says Mr G took out a new contract, and so its engineer carried  out a first service.  
When the engineer  inspected  the boiler,  he said there were  problems with it which couldnt 
be repaired. Though even  if it could have been repaired, under  the policy terms, if repairs  
are found  to be required at the first service,  these wouldnt be covered. 
Ref: DRN82107782Mr G complained to British Gas about  this. Meanwhile, Mr Gs own plumber inspected  the 
boiler and said it could be repaired. 
When British Gas realised that it had carried  out regular services on the same  boiler over 
several years, it agreed to cover  the repairs. It said this was on a goodwill basis. 
Mr G says he was under  the impression that hed simply taken over the contract from his 
father, and says he wasnt told a new policy had started. Hes explained hes always been 
the homeowner,  but the original policy had been arranged  by his father who previously  lived 
with him.
British Gas hasnt  provided any evidence to show that Mr G was told he was taking out a 
new contract. I therefore agree with our investigator  that British  Gas should have dealt with 
this as a continuation of the existing contract.  Mr G had always  been the homeowner,  and 
British Gas had serviced the boiler at the property for many years. 
Unfortunately, the engineer thought the boiler couldnt be repaired. This was a mistake, as it 
was later found that it could be repaired.  I understand the same engineer carried out the 
repairs a month later.  
I think Mr G was caused unnecessary worry and inconvenience  through British Gass  
actions. He was told incorrectly  that he didnt have  cover. He then had to arrange for his own 
plumber to attend the property, as the engineer  had said the boiler couldnt be repaired  
(when this wasnt correct).  And he was also left without heating  for around a month. Mr G is 
a vulnerable person, which British Gas was aware  of. 
Although British Gas did eventually  arrange  the repairs, Mr G then complained to British  Gas 
about his experience. Unfortunately, British  Gas didnt respond  to his concerns. 
I see that Mr G also complained to British  Gas about  the engineer who carried  out the 
repairs, for example  he said that the engineer was rude to his father. I cant  see that British  
Gas looked into this.  
A year or so later, Mr G had further problems with his boiler. The boiler  was repaired by 
British Gas (though it took a few engineers  to find out the problem).  Mr G again raised his 
previous concerns about his experience the year before, and the mould to his wetroom. 
The complaint handler led Mr G to believe he would be compensated for this, and asked him 
to speak to his contractor  to find out what damage was attributable  to the mould. Mr G did 
this, however when  a new complaint  handler  took over the matter,  he was told he wouldnt 
receive compensation for this. British Gas recognised it hadnt been very clear,  and paid 
Mr G £100 compensation.  I think that was reasonable compensation for this particular 
matter.  
However, our investigator thought British Gas should pay a further £400 compensation to 
Mr G for all the other errors. Given the overall  poor service,  and that Mr G was left without  
heating for a month despite British Gas being aware  that he was vulnerable, Im inclined to 
agree with our investigator that this level of compensation is reasonable. 
Damage to wetroom
Ref: DRN82107783Mr G told British Gas that because hed been without heating for so long, mould had 
appeared in his wetroom. Mr G has to have lengthy showers (British Gas is aware of the 
reason for this), and although the room  has an extractor fan that British  Gas previously 
installed, this wasnt sufficient in preventing the mould.
The difficulty  here is that I cant be sure when  the mould started appearing. In order for me to 
require British Gas to cover the full amount of £4,015, Id need to be satisfied that there  was 
no mould whilst the heating was working,  and that this only started appearing during the time 
when Mr G was without  heating. However, Mr G hasnt  provided any evidence  of this. 
Although Ive seen  photos of the mould, I dont know how long it had been there. 
Having said that, I do recognise that Mr G told British Gas about  the mould at the time, and 
so British Gas had the opportunity at that time to arrange an inspection. If it had done so, its 
likely it would have been able to establish  how long the mould had been  there.  
Consequently, I think British Gas should  make a contribution towards the £4,015 costs. 
However, I dont intend to require it to cover the full amount. Thats because I cant be sure 
when the mould  started appearing, but also because  we expect policyholders to mitigate 
their loss. In other words, when Mr G became aware  of the mould, I think it would have  been  
reasonable for him to take steps to reduce the impact of this (such  as purchasing a 
bathroom heater for example). 
On balance, I think a reasonable  outcome would be for British  Gas to pay 50% of the costs 
Mr G incurred, so £2,007.50.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
British Gas didnt  provide  any further comments.  
Mr G responded to say he told British  Gas about  the mould and invited it to assess the 
damage. And he says he did take steps  to prevent the growth  of mould.  He explains he kept 
the window open in the wetroom during and after showers, and also used a portable  heater. 
Unfortunately, this didnt  stop the mould. Mr G also said that hed told our investigator that he 
suffered illness  during  the period in question, and this wasnt referenced  in my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I explained in my provisional decision  that I couldnt  be sure when the mould  started 
appearing. And that for me to require British Gas to pay the full amount of £4,015, Id need to 
be satisfied that the mould started  appearing when Mr G was without heating. 
Mr G says he invited British Gas to assess the damage. He says it would have been able to 
see the age of the mould if it had done, however at no point did British  Gas do this. 
Ive acknowledged  in my provisional decision that British Gas was aware of the mould at the 
time, and did have the opportunity to arrange  an inspection. However, equally, Mr G could 
have arranged his own inspection to support his assertion that the mould only started 
Ref: DRN82107784growing when he was without heating. Its too late for that now, as the wetroom has been 
replaced.
Mr G also explains  that he did take steps  to prevent the growth  of mould.  He says he kept 
the window open, and did use a portable  heater. However, this wasnt  enough to stop the 
mould. 
I appreciate Mr Gs explanation for how he tried to prevent  the mould. However,  it remains 
the case that I still cant be certain  when the mould started appearing. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that it would be appropriate for British  Gas to make  a 50% 
contribution towards  the £4,015 costs. 
Mr G has made the point that hed told this service previously about illness he had during the 
period in question. I see our investigator addressed  this in her view, and said that whilst the 
lack of heating  could have been a contributing factor, she couldnt be sure that this caused  
Mr G to become unwell.
Mr G has provided  evidence  from his doctor  which shows that he had a urinary  tract infection 
during the period he was without heating.  However, I havent seen any evidence which 
suggests that this was caused by the lack of heating.  Its for that reason that I havent taken 
this into account  in my award. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require British Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay £2,007.50.  Interest should be added to this at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date Mr G paid the invoice to the date of settlement. 
If British Gas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate. 
British Gas should also pay Mr G £500 total compensation (I understand that Mr G didnt 
cash the original  cheque for £100, therefore as it may have now expired, British  Gas should 
cancel this).   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8210778