K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) recovery  operative damaged 
his car whilst changing a wheel  under his breakdown assistance policy.
background 
On 20 July 2018, Mr B had a puncture and made a claim under his policy. A recovery 
operative attended and attempted to change his wheel. Unfortunately,  Mr B said that his car 
fell off the jack and his car was damaged  when  the operative tried to get his car back  up on 
the jack.
Mr B said his estimate to repair his car would cost £396. He didnt tell this to IPA until 
September when  he complained. Then IPA said the recovery  operators  employer  had been  
taken over by another company and no paperwork was available to substantiate  Mr Bs 
claim. Nevertheless, IPA upheld his complaint. However, it said that due to the lack of 
evidence it would only pay him £250 compensation, leaving Mr B out of pocket by £146.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator thought IPA 
had dealt with it fairly  given Mr Bs delay in raising the issue  with IPA. Mr B didnt agree and 
so his complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 January. I said the following:
Whilst I appreciate that Mr B delayed some weeks in explaining to IPA that the 
recovery operative had damaged  his car, I dont  consider it was an extensive length 
of time. 
Further, it wasnt Mr Bs fault that the company the recovery  drivers  was employed 
by were taken over,  and apparently no documentation was available. Like Mr B, I 
dont consider this was reasonable  in the few weeks delay between the incident and 
Mr B reporting it to IPA.
I also consider that as IPA clearly said in its final response letter that it upheld  his 
complaint, it is then consequently fair and reasonable that it pays  the shortfall for his 
estimate for the repair  of his car. 
From this estimate,  its clear it was damage from the jack and if IPA considered his 
complaint was to be upheld,  it follows  in my view that it pays the remainder  of the 
estimate of the damage caused.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since no further information has been received from either party,  I see no reason to change 
the outcome as detailed in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN84411912Therefore Im upholding  this case on the same lines.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
I now require Inter Partner Assistance SA to do the following:
Reimburse Mr B the outstanding balance of £146. 
If Mr B has had his car repaired, add interest  of 8% simple  per year from the date Mr 
B paid for his repair  to date of its reimbursement.*
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should 
also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8441191