K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC credited his account in error and then took back  
the money which caused his account to be overdrawn.
background
In November 2018 Mr B paid a cheque for £9.30  into his bank account. But the Barclays  
staff member entered the wrong figure  and his account was credited with £930 by mistake. 
Barclays realised their error on 19th December  2018  and debited  £920.70 from Mr Bs 
account.
Mr B says he did not realise  thered been a mistake  because hed had a number of 
payments going  in and out of his account  over the festive period. So hed spent the money. 
And when  Barclays took back  the funds, his account  became overdrawn.
Mr B feels  its not fair that he has to replace all the money because it wasnt his fault that 
Barclays credited his account in error  in the first place.  And he wants  any negative entries on 
his credit file to be removed. 
Mr B also says he had to make several  phone calls and branch visits to Barclays to sort 
things out. He says Barclays gave him incorrect information during this time and he was 
caused a great deal of stress  and inconvenience.
Barclays accept they made an error when the wrong amount was credited to Mr Bs account. 
They apologise but say that to correct the mistake they had to take the money back. 
Barclays also accept that their service could  have been better when Mr B got in touch. And 
theyve paid him £225 compensation for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
But Barclays  do not agree  that they should write  off Mr Bs overdraft because  hes had the 
benefit of the funds.  So he needs  to pay the money back. Barclays also say they have a duty 
to report accurately to credit agencies that Mr Bs account is overdrawn. They provided a 
contact number for him to call should he wish to discuss  setting up a payment plan.
Our investigator said there was no dispute that Barclays had made an error and that their 
level service fell short of what  was expected. And she thought that compensation of £225 
was fair for the upset  and inconvenience Mr B had been  caused.
But she didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Barclays to allow Mr B to keep money that 
wasnt intended for him. And they wouldnt be wrong  to record the debt on his credit file 
because his account remains overdrawn.
Mr B initially  accepted our investigators  view but then changed his mind.  He feels  that its 
Barclays who made a mistake and that he is being unfairly penalised.  So this case  has been  
passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN83500422I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly  about  what has happened and I understand why. He 
feels Barclays have treated him badly because theyre the ones that got things wrong in the 
first place. But I do not uphold his complaint and I shall explain my reasons.
There is no issue that Barclays made an error when they credited Mr Bs account with £930  
instead of £9.30. And I dont find it unreasonable that Barclays  debited £920.70 from Mr Bs 
account when  they realised their mistake. After all, the money wasnt  intended for him. And 
the terms and conditions of the account  say that if a payment is made into an account by 
mistake, Barclays can take the payment back and are not required to give notice.  
Mr B says he didnt realise  that hed received these extra  funds because  he had numerous 
payments going  in and out of his account  over the festive period. So hed unknowingly  spent 
all the money and when Barclays took the money back, his account became  overdrawn. But 
the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account  say that customers are advised  to check  their 
accounts regularly.  And I dont think its unreasonable  to expect customers to be aware of 
the contents of their own accounts. 
The overpayment in November 2018  meant Mr B had a significant  amount of extra money  in 
his account and it would be reasonable to expect  him to notice and query the discrepancy. 
He made  a number  of online payments that he wouldnt have been able to make if the credit 
error had not occurred,  and he continued to make payments from his account right up until 
the credit  error was corrected. The correction appeared on his statement on the 
19th December 2018. Mr B noticed this debit on the same day and called Barclays  to query 
it. 
Mr B wasnt  expecting to have an extra £920.70 in his account. He doesnt dispute  that the 
money wasnt intended for him. And he accepts that hes made  use of the funds. So I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Barclays to write  off the overdraft.
Mr Bs account remains overdrawn and Barclays have a duty to report accurate information 
to credit agencies. I cant fairly  tell them to do otherwise. Theyve  reasonably advised Mr B to 
put his account in order as soon as possible and have given him contact details should he 
wish to set up a payment  plan.
Its not disputed  that Mr B had to make  various calls and branch visits about the debit from 
his account and that incorrect information was provided during this time. Barclays have 
accepted that their customer service was not as good as it should have been. In my view 
£225 is a fair amount of compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr B but I do not uphold his complaint. Taking everything into 
account, I think Barclays have treated him fairly and reasonably. And I wont  be asking them  
to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN83500423Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350042