K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about his home insurer CIS General  Insurance  Limited. He made a 
claim to it for the cost of removing a blockage from his toilet  and drainage system but it 
would only pay him £40.81.
background
Mr W found his toilet  was blocked and called a company to sort it out. Over the course of 
three visits work was done and ultimately some roots were cut from the manhole.  In total this 
work cost Mr W nearly £3,000. When the work was done Mr W called CIS.
CIS agreed  to consider  the claim and asked its drainage company to price  the work  based 
on Mr Ws invoice.  The drainage company asked Mr Ws contractor for more details, such as 
if repairs were  done  to ensure the blockage  didnt re-occur, as they felt the price was high 
given the work detailed.  Little more information  was forthcoming from Mr Ws contractor 
though and CISs drainage company reported  it would  have  charged  less than £300 for the 
work Mr W had been invoiced for. As the policy excess was £300 CIS said there was nothing  
for it to pay on the claim. It noted  though  that the cost set by its drainage company  didnt  
include an amount  for cutting the roots away which had been specified by Mr Ws contractor. 
It asked for the cost to be recalculated. The drainage company confirmed the cost of all work  
would have been £340.81.
CIS settled  the claim by paying Mr W £40.81.  It also paid him £50 compensation for the 
delay caused  by its drainage company not calculating the costs properly in the first place. 
Mr W remained unhappy. He didnt think CIS could effectively know  what work had been 
done just by looking at the invoices. He noted  he had a £1,000 limit for cover for drains  on 
the policy so thought  CIS should  at least pay him £700 (£1,000 minus the £300 policy 
excess). When CIS didnt  agree  Mr W complained to this service. 
Our adjudicator felt that CIS had acted fairly. She noted that Mr W had got the work done  
before CIS had been notified  of the damage and that the policy allowed it to settle at its cost 
in this sort of circumstance. She noted Mr Ws concern  about  how CIS had priced the work 
but felt this had been reasonable in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CIS policy does  allow it to settle a claim based  on what it would cost it to do the work. 
I think if Mr W had contacted it when he first noticed  the leak CIS would have appointed its 
contractors and its liability would  have been  limited  to the cost it would have charged. CIS 
asked the company to check what that would  have been.
The company couldnt go out and asses the job as the work had already been done.  The 
only evidence it had available  were Mr Ws invoices.  As the detail on these was limited  the 
company tried to get more information from the contractor. It isnt clear why it was unable  to 
justify the costs it had charged and I note that CISs company felt they were  excessive given 
the limited detail provided of what work  was actually done (notably only cutting the roots 
away with no repairs to prevent further blockages).
Ref: DRN81602462I think CIS has done all it can reasonably be expected to in the circumstances here. The limit 
available on the policy doesnt mean Mr W is entitled to being paid that amount. CIS wasnt  
notified until after the work  was done and so its maximum liability was always going to be 
what it would  have  cost it to do the work. In my view, its done all it reasonably can to make 
sure that it has priced that effectively.
 
It is often the case that there is some difference between what an insurer  will be charged by 
its contractors and what an individual  homeowner will have to pay a private  contractor. 
Thats because insurers work with companies  under contracts to keep costs  down. The 
difference here seems to go beyond that Id normally expect to see though. Whilst I cant be 
sure why Mr W has had to pay so much for the work that has been  done, I am satisfied that 
CIS has acted fairly and reasonably. 
CISs contractor did make  an error initially  missing the cost of root cutting from its analysis. 
CIS noted this though and acted  to get the work re-priced. This did affect  the outcome of 
Mr Ws clam and meant the small  settlement  amount he was entitled to was delayed. Im 
satisfied that the £50 CIS paid as compensation in this respect is fair and reasonable.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against CIS General Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8160246