K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.  She is unhappy 
about the way its managed her pension.  In particular, shes  complained about an 
overpayment it made  and that it applied an incorrect tax code  to her regular payments which 
led to an underpayment of tax.
  
background
Ms S has a pension with Prudential. She had been receiving regular payments from the 
pension but in September 2018 she asked  for a one-off lump  sum payment of just over 
£17,000. This payment was made as requested but Prudential then made further large  
payments over the following  months. Ms S brought this to their attention and the pension 
was reinstated  with the overpayments being  repaid and tax adjustments  made.
Prudential accepted that it was at fault. It explained that due to human error the payment for 
£17,000 had been set up as a regular monthly payment and not just as a one-off payment.
The error had a significant impact  on Ms S. The higher payments impacted on her pension 
credit payments which in turn led to her being  chased for outstanding rent and council tax. 
Shes explained that she was worried that she was a victim  of fraud and this all took place 
over the Christmas period  when  she was busy looking  after her son. She is his carer.
Then a second  error was discovered which related to Ms Ss tax code. Prudential  has 
accepted that due to its error  the incorrect tax code was applied to Mrs Ss pension  
payments during 2018/19 and 2019/2020. The error led to an underpayment  of tax and Ms S 
found herself being pursued by HMRC  for an underpayment of around £1,500. This was very 
distressing for Ms S as she had no way of paying  the outstanding tax. Fortunately, HMRC 
has subsequently decided that it wouldnt be pursuing her any further.
Prudential upheld Ms Ss complaint and offered her a total of £600 for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her, £300  for each complaint.
Ms S didnt accept and the complaint was referred  to this service  where  it was considered  by 
an investigator. In relation to the overpayment, the investigator felt that the offer of £300 
didnt take into account the full extent of the impact on Ms S. It was clear that the payment  
had impacted on her pension credit which had led to her being pursued  for arrears of rent 
and council tax over a period of months. Although Prudential had put things right quickly,  the 
impact was over an extended  period.
So the investigator recommended that Prudential should pay £600 for the trouble and upset 
it had caused.  
In relation to the error about Ms Ss tax code,  the investigator decided  that Prudentials  offer 
of £300 was fair. She acknowledged the upset caused to Ms S by this error. Ms S had ben 
pursued by HMRC for money  she couldnt afford  to pay but ultimately HMRC werent 
pursuing this further and so she had benefitted from underpaying tax. The gain was around 
£1,500. The investigator didnt think it would  be fair to tell Prudential  to pay this amount to 
Ms S when she had not actually lost it.
Prudential accepted the investigators conclusions.
Ref: DRN83513192Ms S didnt agree and said,  in summary, that she had not just suffered inconvenience;  her 
whole financial situation had changed. She had a long period with the HMRC debt hanging  
over her and the £300 offered didnt go near to covering the rent payments  which  were over 
£1,600. It took seven  months to resolve the pension credits and this involved making  a 
tribunal application. These were gross  errors  by Prudential, paying £34,000 that it shouldnt 
have done and the errors were not identified until she noticed  them.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator and with her reasoning. I uphold the complaint but Im satisfied 
that the payments Prudential has agreed  to make, which total £900 are fair in all the 
circumstances.
I dont underestimate  the impact  these errors  have  had on Ms S. It must have been 
distressing to face the loss of her pension credits  with the impact this had on her housing  
benefit and council tax. She was left facing  claims for payment which  she couldnt make  and 
then received a tax bill she was not expecting. These problems were caused by Prudentials 
errors. The impact of the errors clearly  extended  over a period of months.  Ms S was still 
being pressed  for arrears  payments in April 2019  and the HMRC didnt waive its claims until 
November 2019.
However, I need to take into account that Prudential has offered  to pay a total of £900 for the 
distress caused. Prudential has also made a tax payment of £720 to HMRC  for part of the 
underpayment of tax. This is a payment it has made which hasnt been deducted from Ms 
Ss pension.  And, in addition, HMRC has confirmed that it has waived  any claim in relation to 
the remaining  underpayment of tax which amounted  to almost £1,600. 
The payment of £720 and the tax waived of £1,600 are both, in effect,  benefits  to Ms S. They 
are liabilities she would have had if these mistakes hadnt been made. So I think its fair to 
consider these and take them into account when deciding whether there should be any 
further award for distress and inconvenience. Having done that, I think  the award of £900  is 
fair in all the circumstances.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision Ms S was hoping  for, and I dont wish to underplay the 
stress and difficulties these errors have caused, but for the reasons given I think the award is 
fair. 
Ref: DRN83513193my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  The Prudential Assurance Company Limited must pay Ms S £900 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  by its errors (it may deduct any sums already paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8351319