K820x#14Complaint
Mr H says Renault Retail Group UK Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
Background
In 2006 Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement  to buy a car. At the same time he 
bought a single premium  PPI policy, the cost of which was added  to his borrowing and 
attracted interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend Mr Hs complaint be upheld. Mr H disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
this case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain  why.
The documents Renaults provided  include Mr Hs signed hire purchase agreement,  showing 
a tick for PPI, and his signed Customer  Demands and Needs Statement. The latter 
suggests Mr H was asked  a number of questions  designed to allow Renault to determine  the 
suitability of the PPI, as well as several other insurance products. The last section of the 
form set out Renaults  personal recommendation and included  boxes to tick to say if the 
consumer had declined  the recommendation for each product. There  was no objection  
recorded for the recommendation that he take PPI. 
Overall, I think Renaults  provided enough evidence to show it made it clear to Mr H that he 
was being sold PPI and that he had a choice about buying it. I think  he chose to take it.
As I say, from the information Ive seen, I believe Renault recommended  the PPI to Mr H. 
That meant it should have checked  that the PPI was right for him. From  what  Mr H has told 
us about his circumstances in 2006,  I consider the PPI was right for him because:
Theres nothing in the policy terms to make me think Mr H wasnt eligible for the 
cover.
The PPI excluded or limited cover  in certain  circumstances.  But I havent seen 
anything to suggest Mr H would  have been  affected by any of those things. For 
example, he hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions.
I cant see that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr H. And, although the PPI wasnt  
flexible in that it would have been expensive to cancel if hed settled the agreement  
early, I cant  see that that would  have been important to him at the time of the sale.
Mr H says he was entitled to enhanced sick pay but the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to that and for longer at up to 24 months per disability claim.  It covered him 
for unemployment too. Although he says he could  have relied on his wifes income, 
Ref: DRN84565762that wasnt guaranteed whereas the PPI benefits were. So, overall, I think hed have 
found the extra protection the PPI provided  useful.
It was also for Renault to provide Mr H with enough  information about the PPI for him to 
make an informed decision as to whether to take it out. I dont know what information  
Renault gave  him. But, for the same  reasons that I think the PPI was right for him and was 
affordable, I dont think better information would have put him off taking out the policy. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr H has lost out because  of how Renault sold 
him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8456576