K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) has refused to 
allow her to transfer two pension  pots she holds with it into a drawdown plan.
background
Ms E provided the following summary of her complaint:
My finances  were put in order some time ago and I am happy where  they are. Within these 
are some old work pensions  and small standalone  pensions. Prudential  own 2 small  
pensions to around 40k I read the brochures they sent and decided a drawdown  would be 
a great  option  for me. As these  2 small pensions are old, they are not eligible at the 
moment for drawdown. I had to talk to one of their Financial Advisors. I stated I was happy 
with my finances as they were and my only interest were these 2 pots. I was refused  further  
help as I refused  to discuss what I wanted the money for, and I refused  to discuss my 
savings, income and outgoings.  Basically I dont want  to buy from them except for these 2 
small pots or change  my financial situation.
Ms E was unhappy  that Prudential  wanted  her to take advice on whether drawdown  was 
right for her personal and financial circumstances. Prudential said it was not willing  to allow  
Ms E to transfer her pension pots into its drawdown  plan without first taking advice. Ms E 
referred the matter  to this service.
Our investigator said she didnt think that Prudential had acted unreasonably, or treated 
Ms E unfairly by requiring  her to take advice about  whether drawdown was suitable  for her. 
She explained that income drawdown carries  more  risk than taking pension  benefits via an 
annuity. With an annuity Ms E would receive  a steady income for the rest of her life. With a 
drawdown plan,  Ms E could withdraw  all the money  in the plan and be left with nothing  to live 
on. This could leave  Ms E in financial difficulty if she didnt have other sources  of income.  
Given these additional  risks, our investigator  explained that it is not uncommon for pension  
providers to require  customers  to take financial advice before entering into drawdown. She 
said that although she understood Ms E didnt want to discuss her personal and financial 
situation, Prudential  was also entitled to decide  on what terms it wished to provide its services.
She said this service couldnt order Prudential to allow Ms E to transfer into a drawdown plan 
with it, without taking  advice. And she explained that Prudential was allowed to make a 
commercial decision to only allow customers to access its drawdown products  once  they had 
taken advice on whether drawdown was suitable  for them. 
She also noted that Ms E could use a different drawdown provider if she was unhappy with 
Prudentials requirement  to take financial advice.  She provided  the contact details for 
Pension Wise if Ms E wanted more information on the options  available to her.
Ref: DRN81039092Ms E did not accept  our investigators  view. She explained that she had spoken to a 
Prudential adviser.  She said that she told the adviser that she, only wanted to discuss the 
Prudential pension as I have other  pension  pots which  I am happy with. Because  I also 
would not give him all the information about the other pension  pots he refused to go further. I 
am happy with my financial  position. All I wanted  to do was take the drawdown and leave the 
rest to accrue interest. They will not deal with their own pension  solely  and I do not want 
them to have access to all of my savings.
Ms E also reiterated her view that she didnt think it was mandatory  for a business to ask 
on what I am spending my pension.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Es position. But having  carefully considered this matter  I dont think 
her complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Ms E says she doesnt  want  to be forced to discuss all my financial details or why I want 
the money, its nothing  special  btw but I value  my privacy.
Ms E is correct  to say that she doesnt  have to disclose her personal and financial 
circumstances if she doesnt  want to. But, as our investigator explained, Prudential is also 
legitimately entitled  to refuse to allow customers, to access its drawdown products if they 
havent taken  financial advice.
Drawdown can be an effective way for some  consumers to access their pension  pots  but it 
isnt right for everyone.  There is a real risk that a consumer could withdraw all the funds in 
their drawdown plan and be left with nothing to fund their retirement.  As this is the case  I 
dont think it is unfair  or unreasonable for Prudential to only allow customers  who have taken 
financial advice to access its drawdown plan. It isnt in anyones best interests if a consumer 
is left in financial difficulty after they have retired because they took entered into drawdown 
and it wasnt suitable for them.
I appreciate that Ms E feels she is sufficiently  well informed to know  whether using 
drawdown to access her Prudential pensions is the right for her. But the issue is that 
Prudential also wants to be sure that a drawdown plan is suitable for Ms E  and it can only 
assess this if Ms E is willing to discuss her personal and financial circumstances.
Ms E says she has been told by a third party  that Prudential cant require her to discuss  her 
personal circumstances. As I have  set out above  this is correct. But Prudential is also 
entitled to require all customers who want to take out a drawdown  plan with it to get financial 
advice first, to check that the plan is suitable for them.
As our investigator noted, Ms E is free to shop around for a drawdown provider that doesnt  
require customers to take financial advice. But I cant order Prudential to let Ms E take out its 
drawdown plan if she is not willing to meet its requirement to take financial advice.
Ref: DRN81039093my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8103909