K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited didnt pay her enough  for her 
stolen car when she made a claim on her motor  insurance policy.
 
background
Under the policy, Mrs H was entitled to be paid the market value for the car. Skyfire offered  
her £10,023,  but then raised the offer to £10,345. It used the valuations  given in three of the 
national trade guides  to arrive at a price for the car. Mrs H thought  it was worth £11,500. She 
said she couldnt replace the car with a similar one for the sum Skyfire had offered her.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Hs complaint. She thought  Skyfire  had acted  
reasonably. She checked all four trade guides and said the sum Skyfire had offered fell 
within the band of valuations set out in them. She said we thought using  trade guide 
valuations was the fairest way to find a cars  market value.
Mrs H thought the cars upgraded exhaust  system hadnt been taken into account. The 
investigator said that feature didnt affect the valuations. Mrs H said she wanted her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld. 
Mrs H bought the car only six months  before its loss for £12,500. It wasnt  new, but I think  it 
was likely to have decreased a little in value over that time.  And its possible that Mrs H paid 
over the top for it. But I can see why she expected  to get more than she did. 
We think its fair for insurers  to establish a cars likely market value by using the trade 
guides. Thats because  the valuations given in them reflect extensive nationwide research 
into cars likely  selling prices. We dont think advertised prices are reliable. Theyre usually 
inflated to allow for negotiation  and small  differences between  cars that seem  similar can 
affect their value. 
Skyfire discounted  the price  given in one of the three trade guides it looked at because it 
was lower than the other two. Thats what led to it increasing its initial  valuation.  We checked  
the trade guide  valuations, including one in a fourth  guide that Skyfire hadnt  considered. 
Mrs H pointed out that her car had many  features  she thought  would have added  value to it. 
Not all features do, but we checked  that features were taken into account when that was 
possible. We found that Skyfire had offered a fair sum to Mrs H based  on the trade guide  
valuations.
I think Skyfire  paid Mrs H a fair sum for her car within  a reasonable time. She didnt  get the 
full amount, as the policy had a £400  policy excess that Mrs H agreed to when  she bought it. 
Im sure the theft of the car would have  been upsetting enough  for Mrs H on its own.  The 
situation has been made worse by her disappointment with the settlement sum she got. I 
sympathise with Mrs H, but as I cant say that Skyfire has acted unreasonably, I cant  uphold  
her complaint.     
Ref: DRN85835842my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8583584