K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied for their mortgage in 
2002 in one of the banks branches. It gave them accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs P
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs P say PPI was added to their account without their knowledge. I cant know what 
was discussed  in the meeting but Ive thought carefully about  their comments and looked  at 
the paperwork from the sale. On Mr and Mrs Ps application  form they indicated  that they 
wanted to apply for PPI, and the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence.  
Mr and Mrs P then completed and signed  a separate PPI application form and direct  debit 
mandate for the PPI. The benefit was split 75:25  between Mr and Mrs P which suggests to 
me there was discussion about the product and their circumstances  with the bank.  And I 
dont think there was anything on those forms that could reasonably have led them  to believe 
PPI was mandatory. 
 
So, overall, I think Lloyds  made it clear  that the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs P chose to 
take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check  that the PPI was right for
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think that it was. Mr P told us 
he was entitled  to 12 months  full pay if he was sick. But he cant provide any supporting  
documentation so without more detail I dont think  I can fairly rely on this as a fact. Its a very 
generous and uncommon benefit. Mr P is trying  to remember something from 17 years ago, 
so its possible hes honestly mistaken. This means I need to decide  if what hes said is more  
likely than not. The level of benefits  he describes strikes me as unusually generous for 
someone in the role he was in, with the tenure he had. I think  its possible some of the 
entitlement was part pay. His old employer still exists so he shouldve been able to get some  
comment on its sick pay policy as it applied to him at time. And without this I dont think its 
safe to conclude Mr P had such generous  sick pay benefits that he didnt need PPI. Mrs P 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was sick, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and for  up  to 12 months for each 
successful claim. It also gave them both up to 12 months redundancy cover. Mrs P also told 
us she had a death-in-service benefit but this is a different kind of protection  and wouldnt 
Ref: DRN81690642help with monthly mortgage repayments  in the same way as PPI. 
Mr and Mrs P also said their parents  had savings so could support them.  But this isnt 
suitable alternative protection, its not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.
Mr and Mrs P were  borrowing  quite a large  sum of money over a long period, secured on 
their home. And the effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for 
them. So, overall,  I think its most likely the PPI would  have been useful for Mr and Mrs P if 
they were sick or lost their job(s).
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs P all the information they needed  before deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made  clear  but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed  out the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. But Mr and Mrs P dont appear to have been affected by any of the 
main exclusions. So I dont think better information  about the policy wouldve changed their 
mind about  buying  PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs P have lost out because  of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8169064