K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that Metro Bank PLC refuse to refund transactions  totalling £5,440  which 
she says were taken from her account,  without her knowledge, by a fraudster. Metro  Bank  
has recovered £3,701.26 from the recipients bank account, and returned this to Miss B. 
Miss B wants the remaining £1738.74 refunded. Shes also unhappy that Metro Banks 
account monitoring systems didnt spot and prevent the transfers.
background 
Miss B had an account with Metro Bank (Metro) since 2015. On 21 August 2017 she 
received a text message closely followed by a phone  call, from someone saying they were 
from Metros fraud department. Its not in dispute that Miss B was the victim of a scam  here,  
so Ill use the term fraudster throughout to refer to the third party  involved. The text 
message read:
Miss B, Youve successfully added  a new payee.  If you did not setup a new payee then 
please call us on 03** *** ***88.
Miss B says that when he called, the fraudster referred to the text message hed sent and 
asked her if shed set up a new payee. She confirmed that she hadnt. She was told that the 
payee would  be cancelled and shed be sent a new customer  number  to keep her account 
secure.
Miss B says that the fraudster asked her a lot of questions during  the call. She also received 
a genuine text from Metro while the fraudster was on the phone.  This text came through in 
the same  message thread as the fraudsters  text, and contained a one-time  passcode  
(OTP). It read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode  to setup a new payee is XXXXXXXX. If you did not 
setup a new payee, then please call us on 03** ** ** *00.
Miss B says she doesnt  think  she gave this OTP to the fraudster. Miss Bs told us the 
fraudster was very convincing and, All the while [she] was not aware that this was a fake 
call from a fraudster.
On 19 September  2017 Miss B received another text message,  which  looked like it had 
come from Metro but wasnt. It read:
We have identified some  unusual activity  on your online banking.  Log in via this secure  link 
XXXX
Instead of clicking  on the link Miss B called Metro using the telephone  number on the back  of 
her debit card. She explained  that shed not had access to online banking  since  what 
happened on 21 August 2017,  because shed been waiting for a new customer  number. The 
call handler explained  that the text message Miss B had received on 19 September  was not 
genuine. He then offered to check Miss Bs transaction history. When he read out her 
balance, it became clear  that it was much  lower than Miss B was expecting.  The call handler 
confirmed that £4,900  had been  transferred out of the account  on 21 August. Miss B said 
she hadnt made the transaction.  Nor had she made  another  transaction for £540 on that 
day. The fraudster  whod  called her on 21 August had managed to login to Miss Bs online 
banking, set up a new payee and make  these transfers.
Ref: DRN83638072Miss B explained that shed received a text message on 21 August 2017  asking her if shed 
set up a new payee, followed by a call, from a private number, from someone saying they 
were from Metro. She said the fraudster asked questions, told her they would stop the 
payee, that they were blocking everything, and that they would  send her a new customer 
number. She explained  that she didnt know her customer number by heart and didnt have 
it with her when the fraudster called. The call handler told Miss B the case  would be referred 
to the fraud team to investigate.
The following  table lists the events relevant to this case. Its been compiled using Metros 
internet banking audit, its OTP audit,  and screenshots  provided by Miss B of the text 
messages she received.
Date and time What happened?
20/08/2017  21:33 Failed login  from IP address 2**.***.***.134
20/08/2017  21:33 Account logged into from 2**.***.***.134  and viewed.
21/08/2017  16:15 Account logged into from 2**.***.***.230
21/08/2017  16:19 Miss B received a text message from the fraudster which 
read:
Miss B, youve successfully added  a new payee.  If you did 
not set up a new payee, then please call us on 03** *** 
**88
21/08/2017  time uncertain Miss B answered a phone call from the fraudster.
21/08/2017  16:24 Payee created
21/08/2017  16:24 Miss B received a genuine text message from Metro which 
read:
Your Metro Bank one-time passcode to setup a new payee 
is XXXXXXXX. If you did not setup a new payee, then 
please call us on 03** ** ** *00.
21/08/2017  16:27 Payee created
21/08/2017  16:27 £4,900 transferred to newly created payee
21/08/2017  16:28 £500 moved from a joint account Miss B held with her 
daughter to Miss Bs sole account.
21/08/2017  16:28 £540 transferred  to newly created payee
21/08/2017  16:29 Account logged out
21/08/2017  16:30 3 failed logins from 2**.***.***.230
21/08/17 time uncertain Miss B received a text message from the fraudster which 
Ref: DRN83638073said:
Thank you for completing  the restoration  process.  Your 
online account is now under safeguard and you will be 
issued with a new secure  link XXXX to avoid account 
suspension.
26/08/2017  15:22 Failed login  from 2**.***.***.113
30/08/2017  00:17 Failed login  from 2**.***.***.117
08/09/2017  11:52 Failed login  from 2**.***.***.81
19/09/2017  16:33 Miss B received a text message from a fraudster which 
read:
We have identified some  unusual activity on your online 
banking. Log in via the secure link XXXX  to avoid account 
suspension.
19/09/2017 approx. 17:00 Miss B called Metro  and discovered that her balance was 
much lower  than she expected.
Following its investigation,  Metro refused to refund Miss B. In her complaint about  that 
decision Miss B said she had been deceived into giving some of [her] details out to 
someone who turned out to be a fraudster . She said the caller  behaved  as though  they 
were calling from Metro Bank , and any information she gave was because she thought the 
caller was taking her through a security verification process. She also said:
One thing the caller didnt do was to ask for my customer number  or my one-time 
passcode.
Miss B said that she thought Metro should have spotted the payments and queried them 
because the activity was so unusual  for her account.  She said,  I have never ever made a 
payment using online banking or made  a transfer  to anyone before, and certainly I have 
never before completed a transaction for such a huge amount on my account.
In response to Miss Bs complaint, Metro said it had declined her claim because she 
provided the fraudster  with the OTP sent to her phone. It also said:
The texts Miss B received on 21 August 2017  about unusual account activity  were 
not sent by Metro.
The text Miss B received on 21 August 2017  containing an 8 digit OTP was a 
genuine Metro  text and was sent to the mobile  number Miss B registered with Metro 
in January 2015.
Without the OTP being  entered online a new payee could not have been set up.
In order to access online banking  the fraudster would have needed  Miss Bs 
customer number (a number given to Miss B when she opened the account), 3 digits  
from her security number (a number she created when she registered for online 
banking), her password  (a password she created when she registered for online 
banking), and 4 digits from her debit  card number.
It lets customers  know  through various  channels that it will never  ask [customers] to 
disclose in full any secure information.
Ref: DRN83638074What Metro told us
In response to Miss Bs complaint to us, Metro  made  a detailed  5 page submission. It said:
Miss B revealed her security details to someone  calling from a private  number;
It wouldnt refund her because she acted  negligently;
The transactions were  completed  online using Miss Bs 12 digit customer  number;
Its evident that the fraudster had all her online banking security  information, which is 
personal to each customer, but there is no explanation as to how Miss Bs online 
security information was known to the fraudster;
Miss B did not contact  Metro until 19 September when the fraud  was realised;
There is no indication of a SIM swap or anything concerning related to Miss Bs 
mobile phone  As a result it is difficult to see how the fraudster was able to obtain  
the OTP unless Miss B had provided  this;
There is no explanation for how the fraudster was able to obtain all of Miss Bs online 
security information along with the OTP sent to her registered  mobile  number unless 
she was negligent  with this information .
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Bs complaint.  He said he couldnt hold Metro  responsible  
for what had happened because it hadnt  done anything wrong. He thought it most likely 
Miss B had shared the OTP with the fraudster  and by doing so had inadvertently helped the 
fraudster get round  Metros security.
Miss B didnt agree. She said she didnt give the fraudster her customer number  or a 
passcode. And she didnt have any suspicion that something was going on when she was 
speaking to the fraudster.
Miss Bs complaint was passed  to me. I came to a different  conclusion  to the investigator,  so 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 January 2019 setting out my thoughts.
In that decision  I acknowledged  that when considering whats fair and reasonable, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time.  I remain  of the view that these considerations are the 
relevant ones. I set them out below.
relevant considerations
Metro is a Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  regulated firm, and was carrying out regulated 
activities. As such the FCAs overarching Principles for Businesses  apply including  the 
requirement to pay due regard to a customers interest and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
The transactions from Miss Bs account  were made  in August 2017. So the relevant 
legislation is that set out in the Payment Services  Regulations 2009 (PSR 2009)1. I think  the 
following sections of PSR 2009 are of particular relevance here:
Consent and withdrawal of consent
1 The Payment Services Regulations 2009 were replaced in January  2018,  which resulted  in some 
regulations now carrying different numbers. All references in this decision  to the Payment Services 
Regulations mean  the 2009 regulations.
Ref: DRN8363807555.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment instruments
57.(1) A payment service user to whom a payment instrument has been issued must 
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence on authentication  and execution  of payment transactions
60.(1) Where a payment service user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a) the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply with 
regulation 57.
Payment service providers liability  for unauthorised payment transactions
61. Subject to regulations  59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly  executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have been in 
had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability for unauthorised  payment  transaction
Ref: DRN8363807662.(1) Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer  is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the payment 
instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
consent
Regulation 55 doesnt elaborate on what constitutes  consent beyond saying that it must be 
given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer  and its 
payment service provider. The payment  services directive itself (which  the PSR 2009 
implement) doesnt explain what consent means  here, but says In the absence  of such 
consent, a payment transaction shall be considered  to be unauthorised. The FCAs 2013  
guidance on the PSR 2009  also said nothing further about what consent means.
So I think its fair, when  considering whether  consent was given, to apply the common 
definition of consent, which is to give permission for something to happen.
gross negligence
Whether a customer has acted with gross  negligence  is something that can only be 
assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account all the circumstances.  The term is not 
defined in PSR 2009 nor in the first Payment Services Directive. However, recital 72 of the 
second Payment  Services Directive provides as follows:
In order to assess possible negligence or gross negligence on the part of the payment 
service user,  account should be taken of all of the circumstances.  The evidence and degree 
of alleged negligence should generally be evaluated  according to national  law. However, 
while the concept of negligence implies  a breach of a duty of care, gross negligence should  
mean more  than mere  negligence, involving conduct exhibiting a significant degree of 
carelessness; for example, keeping the credentials used to authorise a payment transaction  
beside the payment instrument in a format that is open and easily  detectable by third 
parties
Reflecting this, the FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:
 we interpret gross negligence to be a higher  standard than the standard of negligence 
under common law. The customer needs  to have shown a very significant degree  of 
carelessness.
Although neither of these is directly relevant  to this complaint, theyre of value as a relevant 
consideration in the absence of contemporaneous  interpretative guidance, and because they 
inform the meaning  of a concept  that has been in place for some  time (in the Banking Code). 
Ref: DRN83638077When considering  gross negligence in a commercial contract context, Mance J in Red Sea 
Tankers Ltd v Papachristidis  (The Ardent) [1997]  2 Lloyds Rep 547, 586 said:
If the matter is viewed  according to purely English principles of construction,   Gross 
negligence is clearly  intended to represent  something more fundamental than failure to 
exercise proper skill and/or care constituting negligence  as a matter  of ordinary language 
and general impression, the concept of gross  negligence  seems to me capable of embracing 
not only conduct undertaken with actual appreciation  of the risks involved, but also serious 
disregard of or indifference to an obvious  risk.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care, but as I have 
described above gross negligence suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond  
ordinary negligence. So I have to consider whether Miss Bs actions fell so far below the 
standard of a reasonable person  that it would be fair to say she failed with gross negligence 
to keep her personalised security details safe or to comply with the terms and conditions  of 
the account.
the terms and conditions of Miss Bs account
Metros terms and conditions (Our service relationship with personal customers  2016) 
contain the following sections of relevance  to this complaint.
5.2 Keeping your  security information safe
You will be responsible for any instructions given by you, or anyone authorised to act on 
your behalf,  from the time that you successfully pass through security to the time that you 
leave the relevant service. It is your responsibility  to keep details of your cards  and security 
details, including  PINs, security numbers,  access codes or passwords, safe and to make  
sure they cannot  be used  by anyone else or for fraudulent purposes.  For example:
 you must not reveal your security  details to any other person; 
 you must not respond to an email asking  for your security details, even if it looks like the 
email is from us (we will never send you an email  like this so you should report this to us at 
phishing@metrobank.plc.uk); 
5.4 Internet banking
Protecting you when  you are using internet banking is our priority 
 We will ask you to confirm your identity using our current security procedures.  We will 
never ask you for more  than three digits of your password 
 We use two types of authentication for setting up any new payees. If you receive a code on 
your mobile and you did not set up a new payee,  do not enter the code into internet banking 
and contact us immediately 
 You should never  provide your internet banking details to anyone  else 
 After initial  registration to our internet banking service, we will never contact you asking for 
you to reveal or update your security details. If you receive a request like this, even if it 
appears to be from us, it is likely to be fraudulent and you must  not supply your security 
details under any circumstances. You must  report  any requests like this to us immediately.
8.1 Transactions  you didnt authorise
We will be responsible for any payment transaction that you did not authorise,  unless:
 you have  acted fraudulently; 
Ref: DRN83638078 you have  revealed to someone  else, or written  down,  your PIN number or other security 
details used for online, mobile and telephone banking; 
8.4 Claiming back  a loss from us
If you suffer a loss because of something we have done or failed to do, you will usually be 
entitled to claim back that loss from us. However,  there are some  exceptions where you will 
not be able to claim from us and they are as follows 
2. Loss where you have acted fraudulently or negligently.
my provisional decision
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision I made the following 
findings:
I think the above relevant considerations mean  that, if the transactions  Miss B 
disputes were unauthorised, it would be fair and reasonable for Metro to refund the 
full amount taken,  unless,  with intent or gross negligence, Miss B failed to comply  
with the terms and conditions of the account.
I think there are some key questions that are relevant to my consideration about what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
1.Were the disputed  transactions authorised by Miss B? and;
2.If they werent, can Metro demonstrate that Miss B acted with gross 
negligence  particularly taking into account the terms and conditions  of the 
relationship with Metro  and the obligations set out in Regulation 57 of the 
PSR 2009?
were the disputed transactions authorised by Miss B?
Metro accepts that the payments in dispute  left Miss Bs account without her 
authority. But in the interests of completeness, Ill briefly set out why I also think the 
payments werent  authorised.
As Ive said above,  the payer  must have consented  to a payment transaction taking 
place, before the bank is entitled to debit the account (PSR 55). Its commonly  
understood that giving  consent means  giving permission for something to happen. It 
follows that, in the context  of payment transactions, consent requires the payer to 
have knowledge  that a payment transaction will be executed. An account holder who 
is unaware a payment  is being made, cant rightly be said to have given their consent 
to make a payment.
There is no evidence that suggests Miss B knew a payment  was being made from 
her account  on 21 August  2017. On the contrary, Miss B believed that the fraudster 
was helping her stop a new payee that she hadnt  set up, and secure  her account 
from fraudulent payments.
So my starting point is that I dont think Miss B should be held liable for the 
transactions unless  it can be said that she failed with intent or gross  negligence to 
Ref: DRN83638079comply with the terms and conditions of the account, and the obligations set out in 
the PSR 2009.
Can Metro demonstrate that Miss B acted with gross negligence?
The principal  obligation relevant to this case is Miss Bs obligation  to take all 
reasonable steps to keep safe the security features of the account. The account 
terms and conditions explain  what this means in practice. I think Miss B was under 
an obligation  not to reveal her security details,  including internet banking  details  and 
OTPs, to any other person.
Theres no suggestion from Metro  that Miss B has acted fraudulently or that she 
intentionally failed  to comply with the terms and conditions of the account or with the 
other relevant obligations set out in regulation 57 of the PSR 2009. The reason  why 
Metro declined to refund Miss B is because it says she acted negligently  by sharing 
online security information and an OTP with the fraudster.
I note that term 8.4 states that the consumer is not able to claim back a loss where  
they have acted negligently. But taking into account the PSR 2009, as noted above, 
I consider that the test ought to be whether the consumer acted with gross 
negligence.
To begin with, I acknowledge that its difficult to establish exactly  what happened 
during Miss Bs conversation with the fraudster  on 21 August 2017. This is partly  due 
to the time that passed between the call and the discovery of the fraud (almost a 
month), and also because Metro doesnt seem to have asked her during its 
investigation to describe  what happened in any detail. This is unfortunate because if 
Metro had taken  the opportunity to ask more about what  the fraudster said to Miss B, 
and what passed  between them, when the fraud  was first discovered, I think  its 
possible Miss B would have been able to recall  more, and a clearer picture about 
what happened might  have emerged.  Without that, Ive had to decide  what,  on 
balance, I think is most  likely to have happened.
I think its possible the fraudster already  had Miss Bs login information  Ill return to 
why I think that later - or that, during the call, Miss B shared with the fraudster at least  
part of the security information  needed to login to her online banking. I also think, 
despite her recollections,  its more  likely  than not Miss B shared with the fraudster the 
OTP that she received  by text message from Metro while the fraudster was on the 
phone.
I understand that Miss B only recalls sharing information as part of what she thought 
was a security  verification process. And she has consistently said she doesnt think 
she shared the OTP. But there is simply no other explanation for how the fraudster 
got the OTP he needed to create  a new payee. That OTP was prompted by the 
fraudsters online activity  (creating a new payee), and sent to and received by Miss 
Bs mobile  phone. And I think  it most  likely she was convinced by the fraudster that 
sharing the OTP with him was necessary  to identify her, or stop the fictitious  
fraudulent new payee  and secure her account.
Given what I think Miss B most likely  did, I think it would be fair to say that she failed 
to comply with the terms and conditions of her account. But simply failing  to comply 
with the terms and conditions of the account does  not make  Miss B liable for the 
Ref: DRN836380710unauthorised transactions. To be liable, Miss B would need to have failed  in this way 
with gross negligence. And on the evidence  I currently have before me, I dont think  
she did fail with gross negligence.  Ill explain why.
It is widely accepted  that scams such as the one experienced by Miss B are very 
sophisticated. And its likely the fraudster used a range of persuasive techniques to 
trick, deceive and manipulate Miss B into doing  what she did (this is called social 
engineering). The fraudster set up the scam by first spoofing Metros phone  number  
and sending Miss B a text message suggesting there had been  unauthorised activity 
(the setting up of a new payee) on her account.  This text was quickly followed up by 
a phone call. I think its likely that during the call the fraudster anticipated the OTP 
text message and made it part of the story  he was weaving. So when  a genuine text 
from Metro came through, joining the thread with the fraudsters previous text 
message from Metro Bank, I dont think Miss B had any reason to think that the 
fraudsters text message  wasnt genuine,  or that the person  she was speaking  with 
wasnt from Metro.
Shes told us that she had no suspicion  she wasnt speaking with Metro staff.  What 
the fraudster said and did wouldve been designed  to closely replicate a genuine 
Metro call. I think that the convincing nature of the fraudsters call on 21 August 2017  
explains why the fraud  was only discovered by chance a month later,  on 
19 September. This speaks to the fact that Miss B trusted who she was talking to, 
and believed  by the end of the call that her account was under safeguard. I think 
many people in Miss Bs position  would have  been  similarly convinced  they were  
speaking to a Metro member of staff, particularly because the text messages referred 
to by the fraudster  appeared  to, or did, come  from Metro.
In these circumstances I dont think Miss B acted unreasonably by responding to the 
fraudsters requests for information. I think it possible the fraudster simulated a 
security verification process to gather what he needed for online login (although, as 
Ive said, I think its also possible the fraudster already had Miss Bs login  
information). I think the fraudster also asked her for the OTP. In short, I think  the 
fraudster was convincing  and tricked Miss B into sharing  these security  details. And I 
dont think Miss Bs actions fell so far below what a reasonable person would do in 
these circumstances  as to amount to gross negligence.
Ive said its possible that the fraudster already had Miss Bs login information. I say 
this because it seems unlikely Miss B gave the fraudster  her 12 digit customer 
number during the call on 21 August 2017. She said at the point  the fraud was 
discovered, that this is not something  she knows by heart, and the fact that she 
couldnt give it to the fraudster seems  to have prompted him to say that Miss B would 
be sent a new one. It also looks likely from the online banking audit that someone 
logged into Miss Bs account from an IP address similar to the one used by the 
fraudster the evening before the fraud, and that someone logged  into the account 
shortly before the text message and follow up call from the fraudster. This suggests  
that the fraudster  had all that was needed  to login and only called Miss B so that he 
could trick her into divulging the OTP to set up a payee.
If the fraudster did already  have Miss Bs login details, where he obtained this 
information is something that I cannot  know with any certainty. There are a number of 
possibilities, the most likely being  that, at some point  before the 21 August 2017 
Miss Bs details were  phished  from her. Fraudsters phish sensitive details by 
Ref: DRN836380711posing as a trusted entity and convincing consumers to enter their details into fake 
websites, or respond  to fake emails  or texts. We know that this happens, and I have  
seen examples of phishing  websites  that look strikingly similar to the Metro  website.  
Miss B hasnt told us about any incidents likely to be the point  of compromise for her 
information. But if she did respond to a phishing  attempt, I dont think that 
automatically amounts  to gross negligence on Miss Bs part. Phishing attempts can 
be so convincing that the reasonable consumer  would  not have any appreciation they 
were dealing with a fake.
Metro has drawn my attention to the security warnings it displays on its website. Its 
highlighted the warning it gives about  Passcodes  and alerts.  This reads:
To keep you safe well send a unique code to the mobile youve registered with us:
To confirm when you set up a new payee using internet banking
For setting up your security information
Well never ask for this code at any other time and you should never share  it with us 
or anyone  else if its not for the reasons above 
From what  I understand of the screenshots Metro  has provided, to read this warning 
a consumer would need to go to the Metro website,  click on Personal, click on 
Ways to bank, click on Banking securely,  and scroll  down  or expand the 
information under the Passcodes  and alerts tab. Its not a warning that a consumer 
would see regularly or at the point of login, and its not a warning that Miss B would 
have seen when  she was on the phone  to the fraudster.
The other warning Metro has highlighted is the Communications warning which 
includes information about the sneaky ways fraudsters steal  personal information 
and says:
Dont respond to suspicious calls, texts  or emails.  If you think somethings gone  
wrong, come in store and tell us or call us on 03** ** ** *00  If you get a suspicious 
phone call, make sure the line is clear before you call us.
I appreciate that increasing public awareness  of fraud is a big challenge  for 
businesses. And its good  practice to display warnings about scams,  and undertake  
other awareness raising initiatives, with consumer protection in mind. Increased  
levels of consumer awareness may, in some cases,  help to prevent frauds like this 
from succeeding. And its reasonable for Metro to expect that account holders, 
including Miss B, will engage with its efforts to raise  awareness. But Miss B didnt 
have any reason to think the call she received on 21 August 2017 was suspicious 
because of the accompanying spoofed and genuine texts. And not remembering the 
warning about  OTPs, which she may or may not have read in the past, when she 
was under the influence of a sophisticated scam  does not, in my view, mean that 
Miss B acted with gross negligence.
Metro Banks account monitoring
Miss B has also complained that Metro  Banks  account monitoring systems didnt 
spot and prevent the transfers. Shes  said it should  have  because she wasnt in the 
habit of making payments using online banking, and hadnt  before transferred such  a 
Ref: DRN836380712large sum of money. Having looked back over the online audit I can see that Miss B 
did make  the odd online transfer   on 16 January 2017 she sent £300  to an account  
ending **011,  and on 28 March 2017 she sent £1,000 to an account in her own name 
ending **441   so I dont  think an online transfer in and of itself should have triggered  
any extra  checks by Metro.
I also dont think there  was anything about  the way Miss Bs account was logged  in to 
on 21 August 2017 that shouldve alerted Metro to what was going on; the correct 
login details were  used and the OTP sent to Miss Bs registered mobile was entered  
correctly. It might well be then that there was nothing to make Metro suspicious  about 
this payment. But as I already think this complaint should be upheld  for the reasons  
set out above,  I dont  think  I need to make  a finding  on this point.
responses to my provisional  findings
In response to my provisional findings  both parties accepted  my decision.  And Metro  Bank  
agreed to compensate Miss B in accordance with my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I remain of the view that this complaint 
should be upheld  for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which I have  reproduced 
above, and which now form part of my final decision.  In short, I dont  think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to say that Miss B authorised the transactions. And I dont think,  in all the 
circumstances, that she failed with intent or gross negligence to comply with her obligations 
as a payment  service  user.
fair compensation
For the reasons  given,  I dont think it was fair or reasonable for Metro Bank to refuse to 
refund to Miss B the amount  stolen from her account. To fairly compensate Miss B, I direct 
Metro Bank  PLC to:
1.Credit Miss Bs account with £1738.74;
2.refund  any fees or charges that Miss B may have incurred on her account that 
directly resulted from the withdrawal of the disputed payments;
3.pay interest on the amount at 1. at the rate the money would have attracted if it had 
not been withdrawn, from the date of the withdrawals to the date of the settlement.
If Metro deducts tax from the interest  element of this award, it should provide Miss B with the 
appropriate tax deduction certificate.
my final decision
Cases such as this are a good  example  of the kind of finely balanced decisions I have to 
make in circumstances  where  I cant know for sure everything that has occurred  decisions 
that I must make on the balance of evidence, fairly  and reasonably.  But, for all the reasons 
Ive set out above, I think its fair and reasonable to tell Metro Bank PLC to reimburse  
Miss Bs loss.
Ref: DRN836380713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8363807