K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited havent provided  him with 
the correct value for his pension plans after switching them in to a cash  fund.
background
Mr H called L&G on the morning of 29 May 2018  requesting for his pensions plans to be 
switched in to a cash fund. Hed checked the value of his pension plans online at that time 
and he noted  the combined  value as £192,861.55. 
The fund switch was completed using the fund prices of 29 May 2018.  The combined value 
of the pension plans switched in to the cash fund was £191,273.39.  L&G sent confirmation of 
the switch to Mr H.
Mr H contacted L&G querying the amount that was switched as it was lower than he 
expected. He explained that his understanding was that he ought to have received the 
amount hed noted down, £192,861.55, as he made the switch  request before midday. L&G 
explained that the online pension plan values Mr H had noted down were  based on the 
previous working  days unit prices.  
Mr H remained  unhappy and complained to L&G about the matter. L&G looked in to the fund 
switch but confirmed theyd actioned his instructions  correctly. They explained  the value of 
his plans change  on a daily basis and the unit prices they receive are for the previous 
working day. So when Mr H looked at his funds online, the values shown were  the unit prices 
from the day before.   
L&G also said that when  he called to request his fund switch  they wouldnt have known the 
value of his pension plans until the next day. So any drop in value from that day wouldve 
always happened. They did however accept that although their website does explain this, 
the information isnt shown on the websites front screen and so it could be clearer.  They  
sent Mr H a cheque  for £150 for the inconvenience this caused him.
The complaint was brought to our service. Our adjudicator looked  in to it but he thought  L&G 
had acted fairly. He said L&G had shown  theyd actioned the fund switch using the unit 
prices of 29 May 2018 and he also thought the £150 was reasonable for the inconvenience  
caused due to L&Gs website not being clearer.
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Hs concern at finding out the value of his pension plans, following the switch  
to a cash fund, was about £1,600  lower  than he expected. And I understand why he 
expected to receive more than he did because of the information  on L&Gs website. But for 
the reasons Ill explain  I dont  think  L&G has carried out the fund switch  incorrectly.
Its accepted that if a request to switch funds is made before midday then that days unit 
prices will be used to calculate the fund value.  In this case  there isnt any dispute  that Mr H 
Ref: DRN82805772made his request before midday on 29 May 2018.  And L&G have shown  that theyve used 
the unit prices of 29 May 2018 when processing the fund switch. Im therefore satisfied it 
was carried out correctly and that Mr H received the amount he is entitled to.
I do however appreciate  that the values Mr H saw online on the morning he made the 
request showed  higher figures than the amount he received.  This though,  as L&G has 
explained, was calculated using the previous  working days unit prices. And L&G can only 
calculate the value of the fund the next working day upon receipt of the unit prices. So the 
values Mr H was expecting to receive,  and that he noted down, were not those of 29 May 
2018 but the day before.  
Mr H has questioned the information  L&G provides on their website as it displayed the 
valuation as as at 29 May 2018.  He thinks this is misrepresentation on their part given the 
valuation was incorrect as it cannot be calculated until the following working day.
Ive considered this point  carefully and while I acknowledge the website could be clearer in 
explaining how the fund value is calculated, it isnt the role of our service  to tell a financial 
business how to operate.  But rather we will direct  them to put things right when theyve done 
something wrong. And as Ive said, Im satisfied L&G carried out the fund switch correctly.
I think its also relevant to add that while I accept Mr H expected to receive the valuations 
provided on L&Gs website, Im not seen anything to show  that the value itself was a 
determining factor in his decision to switch to a cash  fund on that particular day. And if it 
was, then Mr H couldve  confirmed with the L&G adviser the amount that would be switched. 
Had he done so then adviser  wouldve had the opportunity to explain that it would be 
calculated the following  day and so he wouldnt receive the amount displayed online.  I cant 
see that this happened.
I also believe its worth  noting that while its unfortunate the unit prices fell in Mr Hs case, it 
was also possible they couldve  gone up. And although Mr H has raised concerns about the 
wider industry and an inability to know what  price  will be obtained in these  circumstances, I 
can only look at the actions of L&G here. So while I sympathise with Mr H as he thought the 
value of his pension plans were higher when he made  the request to switch funds, I dont 
think hes suffered a financial loss as a result of this or that it was processed incorrectly.
Ive considered whether the £150 compensation L&G has paid is enough. Having done so, I 
think it is a reasonable  amount to recognise  the trouble  and upset this matter  has caused  
him and so Im not increasing it any further.
final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8280577