K820x#14complaint
Mr H is disputing the sum that that Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited, trading as 
Cabot Financial (Europe)  Limited, are asking him to repay. He has complained  that Cabot 
hasnt shown him proof of the amount owing.
background
Mr H had a loan which was opened  in February  2014. The loan was terminated by the credit 
provider in June  2016 after he failed to make minimum, contractual monthly payments. 
Cabot purchased the debt. 
Mr H, represented by a solicitor, has complained that:
Cabot wont give him evidence of the original credit agreement or a statement 
showing the amount  paid by him, the total sum currently  payable  and the total sum 
that is to become payable;
The debt is causing Mr H financial difficulties;
Cabot has added  charges to the debt and has applied unfair  pressure in its 
enforcement of the agreement. 
Our investigator didnt  think Cabot  had done anything wrong. He noted  the enforceability  of 
the debt was a matter  for the courts and not something we could consider. He was satisfied 
that Cabot had shown it had purchased Mr Hs debt from the credit provider. And that the 
balance Cabot was stating was owed matched the amount given by the credit provider, 
when factoring in a payment of £1. So he thought that it was for Mr H to contact the credit  
provider if he felt the amount owed was incorrect. 
The investigator didnt  think that Cabot had treated  Mr H unfairly in terms of chasing 
payments, as only £1 was paid and this was in December  2018. He also hadnt seen proof of 
any aggressive communication, or of any charges  being added.  And he noted  that Cabot 
hadnt been able to contact Mr H since purchasing the debt so it hadnt  been able to arrange 
any repayments, nor carry out an affordability  check for repayment  purposes.   
Cabot agreed with the investigator but Mr H didnt.  Mr H reiterated  his request for evidence  
of the credit  agreement and amount  owing.  He also said he was still receiving 
correspondence from the credit provider to indicate that he was required to pay it, which 
contradicts information  that the debt was owned  by Cabot.  And he said he hadnt paid £1 
towards the debt.  Instead, he was paying  the statutory fee to be able to request the credit 
agreement and information about the account  it was not to be treated as payment towards  
Cabot, or an acknowledgement of the debt. He also complained that his credit file was 
showing that both the credit  provider and Cabot had registered a default.
The investigator explained that Cabot  shouldnt be held responsible for any letters sent by 
the credit  provider. He also explained  that hed been  in touch with the credit provider and it 
had said it would be amending the entries on the credit file to avoid the double entry. 
Mr H is concerned with the amount of time the entry has been on his credit report  for. And he 
maintained his earlier complaint points about proving the debt.  He wants  Cabot to cease  
collection activity or write off the debt, the credit provider to remove  the entry, and 
compensation to be paid.  
Ref: DRN80517692The complaint has been passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it may come  as a disappointment to Mr H, I dont uphold his complaint  Ill 
explain why. But, before I do, I should point out that it isnt the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to decide on what policies financial  businesses  have in place when 
they purchase debt.  This is a decision Cabot can make in line with its regulator   The 
Financial Conduct  Authority. 
Mr H complains that Cabot isnt able to prove  the debt exists. But I note that he made an 
offer of settlement, which suggests to me that he believes it exists. I also note that Cabot has 
provided information to show  that the credit  provider sent a notice of assignment  dated 24 
May 2018. This explained  that the account had been  assigned  to Cabot and stated the 
outstanding balance was £19,552.51. Cabot also gave us a letter it had sent to Mr H, with 
the same  date, to state it had bought the account  and stated the same outstanding  balance. 
So Im satisfied that Cabot has purchased a debt from the credit provider. If Mr H wants  
further information about the debt  whether  in relation to its existence, or the amount owed - 
he may wish to get in contact with the credit  provider.  
Cabot has said that the debt is currently unenforceable,  which means it cant take Mr H to 
court. But it also says this doesnt mean  it cant ask Mr H to make repayments.  As our 
investigator said, its for a court to decide  if a debt is legally  enforceable. Ive seen evidence 
that Cabot has bought  this debt from the credit provider, and Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that it cant ask Mr H to make  payments towards this. I understand Mr Hs frustration 
that Cabot hasnt been able to provide him with the documentation hes asked for. But I cant 
expect Cabot to give Mr H something  it doesnt have. If Mr H wants  this, he may want to ask 
the credit  provider for it. 
Mr H has said Cabots actions are affecting his credit rating.  But it appears that Cabot has 
provided accurate  information, and that the erroneous entry was made by the credit provider. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to say that Cabot has acted unfairly. Its required to provide 
accurate information  to credit reference  agencies.  Again, Mr H may wish to contact the credit 
provider if he thinks the duplicate entry has impacted him  but I note that this has seemingly 
now been rectified. 
I also note that Mr H has said the debt is causing  him financial difficulties. This could be 
because of the credit file point addressed above. But should  there  be any more  to this point,  
its worth  noting that Mr H hasnt made any repayments so it would be unfair to say that 
these difficulties are as a result of this debt. I also cant see that Cabot has added  any 
charges. I dont have  sufficient evidence to support the allegation that Cabot has applied  
unfair pressure to Mr H to recover the money. And Cabot has also explained  that its been 
unable to contact  Mr H. In its letter of 14 December 2018, Cabot said it would work with Mr H 
to come to a suitable  arrangement that takes his circumstances into account, with specific  
reference to his financial difficulties. And I think this is fair and is an option Mr H might wish 
to pursue.
So, based  on everything Ive seen, I dont  think Cabot has acted  unfairly or unreasonably so 
I wont be asking Cabot  to do anything further here. 
Ref: DRN80517693my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8051769