K821x#15the complaint
Mr A says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr A says this caused him a number 
of issues with using  and managing his account.  Specifically,  hes said he had no access  to 
online banking for around  one month and that there  were significant delays in TSB sending 
him a working debit  card.
As a result of these problems Mr A has said he was unable to buy a car on the day he 
intended to, and so had to drive to Scotland twice  to sort out the purchase.  Hes also said 
that he was unable to pay parking fines which meant those fines increased. In addition, Mr A 
has said that not having a working debit card for several weeks  caused  problems with his 
family leading to significant  stress  and worry for him.
Lastly, Mr A says that due to the issues with his online banking and the stress he was 
experiencing, he inadvertently made  a payment for £460 to the wrong  person.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint. She thought TSB should pay £300 for the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr A. But the adjudicator didnt think  that TSB needed to compensate  
Mr A for any of the financial losses he was claiming  such  as the additional parking fines or 
petrol costs.
Mr A didnt think this was enough  compensation. So another adjudicator  looked  at the 
complaint again.  They  agreed with the original adjudicators findings.
TSB accepted this, Mr A didnt. So the case has been passed  to me to decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £300 compensation the adjudicator has recommended  is a fair way 
to resolve this complaint, and Ill explain why.
issues TSB has already considered
Mr A has said that due to the problems hes had he accidently made  a payment for £460 to 
the wrong person. But I can see that TSB has already considered  this issue. While they 
agree that the IT issues meant it might have been difficult  for Mr A to see if the payment had 
been processed or not, the fact remains that the payment was made to the person at his 
own request. And TSB would not have known that he had put in the wrong details.  
Nevertheless, TSB has paid Mr A £75 to recognise that the online banking issues may have 
made this situation  worse,  and also paid him £18 to cover his phone  costs. I think  this is a 
fair way to resolve  this part of Mr As complaint.
But I also note that when originally dealing with this part of Mr As complaint TSB refunded  to 
him the £460  he had accidentally transferred. Given that TSB has determined that the 
payment was made at Mr As request and was not a bank error, they have  said they now 
Ref: DRN81495512intend to ask Mr A to repay this money to them, and I dont think that is unreasonable  in the 
circumstances. The person Mr A made the payment to is, as far as I am aware, someone 
known to him, so he should be able to ask them  to return the money to him. I dont think  it is 
fair that TSB should have  to cover that loss.
issues not already addressed by TSB
I dont agree that TSB can be held responsible for Mr As petrol costs in driving to Scotland  
twice to purchase a car. I understand that Mr A has said that due to his online banking  not 
working he couldnt give his brother his account details so that the money  could be 
transferred to the car seller. But hes also told us that his brother was with him when he first 
went to buy the car. So it seems it would have been relatively straightforward for Mr As 
brother to make the payment directly  to the seller,  meaning there was no need for Mr A to 
make another expensive  journey to Scotland. I also note that Mr A was already aware of the 
issues with his online banking before  he went to buy the car, so I would have expected  him 
to take steps to ensure  he had all the information he needed before he travelled to make the 
purchase.
Mr A has also given  us paperwork showing a number of parking fines  and a car tax bill that 
hes said he was unable  to pay on time because of the issues  with his account and his card. 
But at least some of these charges predate the issues with his account, and looking at his 
statements I can see that he appeared to be using his debit card around when he needed to 
make these payments,  I also note that many  of the fines  gave the option to pay via a Pay 
Point machine, which would accept cash payments. And I can see that Mr A was regularly 
withdrawing cash during  this period.  So with all this in mind I dont think  it would be fair to 
ask TSB to pay anything  towards these fines.
I can see that there were  a number of delays in sending a working replacement  card to Mr A, 
and I appreciate that this will have been  worrying and inconvenient to him. I also appreciate 
that he spent quite some time trying to sort this issue  out with TSB.  But I can also see that 
even with the issues around getting a replacement card,  it seems  Mr A was able to make 
payments and withdraw cash, so he was able to use his account for at least some of this 
period. Even so, I dont doubt  that the issues  in receiving a new card caused Mr A a lot of 
stress, particularly considering what hes told us about how it affected  his relationships with 
his family  and his health.
Mr A says he wants fair compensation for the worry and stress TSB has caused  and I can 
understand his strength of feeling. But taking everything into account, I think the 
compensation of £300 the adjudicator has already recommended  and TSB has agreed to  
is fair compensation for what has happened  here.  I do however think this should be on top of 
the compensation TSB has already paid to Mr A for the issues  with the £460 payment that 
he accidentally duplicated.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr A £75 compensation and £18 for call costs for the issues relating to the 
payment that was made to the wrong  person   I understand TSB has already paid 
this so I dont make  any further award for this issue
pay Mr A £300 for the additional  impact  the IT issues  had on Mr As ability  to manage 
and use his account
Ref: DRN81495513It is for Mr A and TSB to now discuss the next steps  regarding the £460 payment that TSB 
has said it intends to recover from Mr A.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8149551