K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that AXA Insurance UK Plc refused  part of their claim against their 
travel insurance policy. 
background
In July 2018, Mr and Mrs B bought an annual, multi-trip, travel insurance  policy  including  
cruise cover.
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs B were  on a cruise. In the early hours of 
18 September 2018, Mr B became unwell and visited  the ships doctor.  I understand that 
Mr B had acute bronchitis.  The doctor  gave Mr B paracetamol and antibiotics and advised 
hydration and laboratory  work. 
Mr and Mrs B say that they didnt return to bed until about 3am or 4am. Mr B didnt feel well 
enough to go on a two day excursion hed previously booked  for that day and which started  
at 7am.   
When Mr and Mrs B returned home,  Mr B contacted AXA and made  a claim against the 
policy. AXA settled his claim  in relation  to medical costs but it refused his claim for the cost 
of the excursion he and Mrs B missed.  It relied  on an exclusion in the policy.  Mr B didnt 
think that was fair, as AXA had paid his medical  expenses, so it knew  that he was ill. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said there was no dispute that 
Mr B was unwell but AXA had applied  the policy terms correctly and fairly in refusing the 
claim for the excursion costs. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said he was clearly ill and he didnt think  to ask 
the doctor if he should go on the excursion a few hours after hed been diagnosed with 
bronchitis. Mr B said that it was unreasonable to expect him to ask that type of question or to 
contact the insurer  in the circumstances here.  He said that the excursion was the highlight  of 
the trip. Mr B says that the clause on which AXA relies is unreasonable. There were  further  
exchanges between  the investigator and Mr B, which  I wont repeat here. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mr B was taken  ill whilst  on holiday and that, quite understandably,  he 
didnt feel well enough to go on the planned  excursion.  The central issue for me to determine 
is whether AXA acted fairly in refusing Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the cost of the excursion 
they missed. I think it did and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt advise  Mr and Mrs B about the suitability of the policy,  so it was for Mr and Mrs B 
to decide whether the policy met their needs.  
Ref: DRN86970382The relevant  part of the terms  and conditions says:
We will pay you up to the amount  shown  in the schedule of benefits [£300]  for each 
pre-paid shore trip excursion missed as a result of the following:
[]
b) You are confined  to your  cabin as a result  of bodily injury, illness  or disease  you 
sustain whilst on your cruise.
Mr B has said himself  that he wasnt confined to his cabin as a result of his illness. So, the 
circumstances that arose here dont come within  the terms of the policy. Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy doesnt cover  everything  that might go wrong  whilst on holiday.  More specifically, it 
doesnt cover the costs  of a pre-paid excursion when Mr B is unwell but not confined to his 
cabin. AXA was acting  within  the terms of the policy in refusing Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the 
missed excursion. Mr B didnt contact AXA either before accessing  treatment  or before 
deciding not to go on the excursion. That meant AXA didnt have the opportunity  to explain 
to Mr B what it would  and wouldnt cover as the events unfolded. 
I think AXA acted fairly  in relying on the terms and conditions of the policy.  Its not 
unreasonable for AXA to decide what it will and wont cover.  The term was clear. It was open 
to Mr and Mrs B to look for alternative cover if AXAs policy  didnt meet their needs. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but there are no grounds on which to direct  AXA to pay 
the claim for their excursion costs.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 October  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8697038