K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Saga Services Limited  cancelled his motor insurance  policy  but didnt 
inform him. He wants Saga to change its processes and pay increased compensation. Mr F 
is represented in this matter by his wife, Mrs F. 
background
Mr F took out cover for his motorbike  with Saga. It asked him for proof of his No Claims 
Discount (NCD). Mrs F said she sent this in and called Saga several times to check that itd 
been received.  Saga  said the policy was in place. But Saga didnt process the NCD proof. 
Saga cancelled the policy and Mr F rode his bike not knowing that he was uninsured. Saga 
paid Mr F £50 compensation for the trouble caused  by the error. It also set up a new policy 
that included two months cover that he didnt  need to pay for. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Saga  
had restored Mr Fs position following its error. And she thought it had paid Mr F sufficient 
compensation for his trouble and upset. She didnt think it needed to do anything  further.
Mrs F replied that the level of compensation wasnt fair. She said she sent in the NCD proof 
within the allotted time. She said the cancellation  had caused  great  upset and distress. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that the error arose because Mr F, when he took out the policy, claimed nine years 
NCD but only provided proof of five years. Saga then asked for an additional premium which 
Mrs F said she didnt  pay. Saga then sent its notice  of cancellation letter.  Mrs F then 
obtained proof of nine years NCD from the previous insurer and emailed this to Saga. 
Saga agreed that it received the NCD proof before the deadline. Its agent told Mrs F that it 
had been received, but not yet processed. However, he said the cover was in place. But 
Saga then incorrectly cancelled the policy and Mr F received its cancellation  letter four days 
afterwards. 
Saga agreed that this had been  an error. When  a business makes  mistakes,  as Saga has 
agreed its done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position as far as its possible 
to do so.
I can see that Saga provided a new policy for Mr F which provided him with 14 months cover 
for the same price. The new policy also had added features. Saga told Mr F that he would 
have been indemnified if hed made  a claim after the policy had cancelled.  I think  this 
restored Mr Fs position so he wasnt left out of pocket by the mistake.  
I can understand that Mrs F was worried about what would have happened if Mr F had 
driven whilst  uninsured and had an accident. But fortunately this didnt happen. We can only 
look at actual rather than potential losses. So I cant consider that further. 
Ref: DRN87143022Saga also apologised to Mr F and offered  him £50 compensation for the upset and distress 
caused. But Mrs F didnt  think this was sufficient. I appreciate Mrs Fs upset and distress at 
the time she received the cancellation letter. But she said that Saga immediately set up a 
new policy for Mr F. So I think  it acted quickly to make things right when the error was drawn 
to its attention. This is what  Id expect it to do. 
I also think £50 compensation for Mr Fs distress and inconvenience was fair and reasonable 
as its keeping with what wed award in similar  situations. As Mrs F wasnt the policy holder, I 
cant require Saga to compensate her directly.   
Mrs F wants Saga to change  its processes so this mistake doesnt happen again. The 
investigator has already  explained that we cant require businesses  to change their internal 
systems and processes  as thats  their commercial decision. However, I can see that in its 
apology to Mr F, Saga has said its taking  action to prevent similar  mistakes  in the future. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  1 March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714302