K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that on the 20 January 2018 he made a payment to American Express  
Services Europe Limited (AMEX) in the sum of £736.55 which  they did not credit  to his 
account.
background
The adjudicators background summary  covered all the relevant facts  and is known to both 
Mr W and AMEX so I wont  repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, but because I dont think  its relevant  to the issues.  
However, in summary  form,  in January 2018 Mr W made a payment to his AMEX account  in 
the sum of £736.55. Sometime later he noticed that it had not been credited  to his account  
and so he contacted AMEX in an attempt to rectify the matter. AMEX  asked  for further  
information and it took an unreasonably  long period of time to track  the payment, for which  
AMEX have apologised and paid Mr W £150  in compensation. As a gesture of goodwill 
AMEX also refunded 4 late payment fees and removed the late payment markers for April, 
July, August and September. 
As to the actual  payment  of £736.55,  AMEXs  position is that they acknowledge receipt of 
the payment but said it was paid to another account.  They said that the amount paid 
matched the amount required as payment for that account at that time, and further  that the 
account the money was paid to was registered at Mr Ws address and in the name  of a 
person who was an additional  card holder on Mr Ws account.  For reasons of data protection 
AMEX have not been able to divulge any further information about that separate  account to 
Mr W.
Mr W was unhappy with AMEXs response  and so the adjudicator looked into the complaint  
but didnt think  AMEX had acted unfairly with regard to the £736.55 payment. She also 
thought that AMEX had made  amends for the poor customer service by paying the £150 
compensation and removing  the late payment charges and credit file markers. As Mr W 
didnt agree, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. I do not perform  the role of the industry regulator, and nor do I have the power  to make 
rules for financial businesses, punish them,  or direct that they change their processes.  That 
falls under the remit of the Financial  Conduct  Authority. 
What I need to decide is whether AMEX  acted fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Mr W. I take into account both AMEXs view and that of Mr W and I consider the evidence 
and reach  what I think is an independent,  fair, and reasonable decision based on that 
evidence. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I am bound to reach  a 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, I consider  what  is more likely  to 
have happened  in the light of that evidence and the wider circumstances of the case. 
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. 
Ref: DRN85620572It is clear that Mr W did in fact make a payment  of £736.55 to AMEX. I can accept that he 
perhaps thought  he was making that payment  to his own account, but I am satisfied that he 
is mistaken in that belief.  Mr W did not apply for his account until the 16 January 2018 and 
would not have received his card until around the 19 or 20 January. He made the disputed 
payment on the 20 January which was prior to him making any purchases,  and as his card 
was a charge  card it was not possible to load the card with a credit. So it would seem  
unlikely that Mr W would  make a payment to this account at that time.
Additionally AMEX has confirmed that there  does  exist another account which  is not in 
Mr Ws name but is registered to his address  and to which the payment of £736.55 was 
made. I have  read Mr Ws comments about  him never having another  AMEX account  in his 
name at that address,  and that might very well be so, but the issue  here is that it is another  
persons account,  not Mr Ws. AMEX  has also confirmed  that the person who owns this 
account is also a person  named as an additional card holder on Mr Ws account, and so I 
would presume that Mr W will be able to narrow down whom that might be. It is unfortunate 
that AMEX have been unable to get permission  from the account  holder to share information 
with Mr W but the simple position  is that if they cannot get that permission there  is nothing  
further they can do about it.
I have also thought about the point AMEX make  that Mr Ws account never showed that 
there was a payment required of £736.55  and I think it is a good  one. This shows  that it is 
more likely than not that Mr W intended to make  the payment  to the account  he actually did, 
because it was the precise sum required at the time on that account.
So on balance I think that Mr W must be mistaken  when he thinks  he made  the payment of 
£736.55 to his own credit card account. 
I have thought about the £150 offer of compensation AMEX made to Mr W and I think  that 
this is reasonable.  There was a delay which ought  not to have occurred, and I appreciate 
AMEX were initially looking  for a lost payment.  But the delay  in resolving the complaint  was 
far too long. So I think the award  is reasonable and it is in line with the awards this service  
would make for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this.
I know Mr W will be disappointed with my decision but I have come  to the same conclusion 
as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. 
my final decision
AMEX has already paid £150 to settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances, so I dont  require AMEX to do anything further.
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against American Express  
Services Europe Limited.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Ref: DRN85620573Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8562057