K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that the actions of the agents used by the National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  (NFU) caused damage  to a horsebox it attended following a 
breakdown. Mrs J is represented by her husband,  Mr J.
background
Mr J was driving when the horsebox  broke  down  in January 2019. An agent  Mr J spoke to on 
the phone  said he thought  there was a problem with the clutch. After attending the scene, he 
confirmed that was the case. As the vehicle wasnt driveable and couldnt be repaired at the 
roadside, a recovery truck arrived later on. The recovery driver hoisted the vehicle up so its 
front wheels were  off the ground and it was resting on its rear wheels. But very shortly into 
the journey, the rear wheels fell off. 
Mr J says the recovery driver sent photos  to his manager, who noted a gap in one of the 
vehicles rear wheels.  Mr J says the driver told him he wouldnt have tried to move the 
vehicle in the way he had if hed known there  was a fault with the wheel. After being moved, 
the vehicle needed a new axle and other  parts. The repairs amounted to around £1,500. 
NFU said a wheel  bearing was in a poor state  due to lack of maintenance and had 
overheated, as it hadnt been lubricated for a long time. It said that caused the drive shaft to 
snap, and the broken drive shaft  caused the breakdown. In NFUs  opinion,  although the fault 
was misdiagnosed by its agent, his misdiagnosis  didnt  lead to any extra damage. It said if 
the bearing had been  serviceable,  the wheels wouldnt have come off.  
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Js complaint. He said although the bearing  may 
have been compromised,  if NFUs agent  had noted  it, the vehicle would have been moved in 
a different way. So the extra damage may have been avoided.  He thought the cost of repairs 
should be split between the parties. 
Mr J said the vehicle  was serviced yearly  and had only been  driven  300 miles since its last 
service at the time of the breakdown. In his opinion, an oil seal had failed,  causing  the 
bearing to overheat. He said it wasnt foreseeable. He thought  the vehicle should have been 
delivered to a garage in the same  state  it was in when it broke down. So he said Mrs J 
should only have  to pay for a bearing  replacement,  costing  around £270, including  fitting.  
The investigator didnt  agree, so the complaint was passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J accepts that there was a problem with the wheel  bearing overheating. He doesnt agree  
that the vehicle wasnt  well-maintained. That may be the case, although we dont have any 
evidence of its last service.   
Mr J hasnt said the broken drive  shaft couldnt have been caused  by the overheated 
bearing, but he says it could have broken when the wheels fell off. I dont think  its possible 
to be sure what happened. NFUs technical  advice  team thinks the lack of drive that led to 
Mr Js call for help would have been due to the drive  shaft already being broken (caused by 
Ref: DRN81192892the overheated wheel  bearing). If so, there  was already  a weakness that could have 
compromised the axle. But I cant be sure of that. 
Theres no independent evidence that the recovery driver told Mr J he wouldnt have tried to 
recover the vehicle  as he did if hed known there was a problem with the wheel (or the drive  
shaft). But I think its more likely than not that the recovery  would have been done differently 
had the driver known  a rear wheel or any part related to it was damaged.  
I dont think its possible to say what amount  of damage (other  than the bearing)  Mr J would 
have had to pay for had no further damage been  caused during the recovery.  As the extent 
of the initial  damage  isnt known, I dont think its possible  to say how much extra cost the 
misdiagnosis and the type of recovery led to either. In these circumstances I think  it would 
be fair and reasonable for the parties to split the cost of the repair work. 
Mr J told us recently that he didnt have  to pay for a bearing to be fitted,  as one was included  
with the new axle. Otherwise, Mr J would have had to pay £273.60 for that. He agrees that 
NFU isnt responsible  for the bearing. So I think that sum should be deducted  from the 
invoice / receipt that NFUs payment to Mrs J is based on.      
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require The National Farmers Union 
Mutual Insurance Society  Limited to do the following:
Subject to a valid receipt, pay Mrs J half the sum that was paid to repair  the vehicle, 
less the £273.60 she and Mr J would have  paid for the bearing to be replaced
Add interest at the simple rate of 8%, from the date of the receipt to the date of 
settlement
If NFU thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mrs J how much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8119289