K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) in 2004.
background
The MPPI policy was sold as part of a Total Mortgage Payment  Protection  policy  (TMPP).    
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes MPPI together with other  
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  The individual  elements  of the 
cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Mr As complaint is about the MPPI element of the TMPP. So this decision relates solely  to 
the MPPI  part of the policy. The MPPI  covered Mr A against accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. If hed made a successful claim,  the MPPI policy  wouldve covered Mr As 
mortgage repayments for up to 24 months.
Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold many years  ago so it isnt surprising that neither Mr A nor Halifax  have 
copies of all the paperwork completed  at the time. I also have to take into account that 
memories can fade over time. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete  or 
contradictory, I make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, on what I think  is 
most likely to have happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies in branches  
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  the paperwork  
in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy  was optional and they would have 
been asked for their consent to the cover.
So taking everything into account I think its more likely  Mr A was told he had a choice about 
whether to buy the policy or not, and he chose to take it.
Halifax says its adviser  wouldve recommended  that Mr A buy the policy. So Halifax had a 
duty to make  sure it was right for him. And from what Ive seen I think  it was.
Mr A seems  to have been eligible for the policy. He wasnt affected by anything the policy  
didnt cover such as medical conditions  he was already aware of.
Mr A has told us her he would have received sick pay from his employer for up to 12 months 
if he was unable to work.  But this particular  MPPI  policy  couldve paid Mr A a benefit  for up 
to 24 months in addition  to any sick pay. So if Mr A had become unwell I think he wouldve 
found the policy useful, particularly if Mr A was unable to work for a prolonged spell.
Ref: DRN83275792The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 24 months if Mr A lost his job. Although Mr A 
may have  got some  redundancy pay if that happened, the policy  would allow him to use any 
redundancy pay towards other living costs. 
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr A, Halifax  also had to give him information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading.   
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr A all the information it shouldve. But from what Ive 
seen the policy was right for him and I think its likely  he was interested in this type of cover. 
The cost of the policy seems to have been  comparable to other, similar policies on the 
market at the time, and Ive not seen anything to make me think the premiums were  not 
affordable. So even if Halifax had given Mr A all the clear information  about the policy  and 
the premiums that is should have, I still think hed have bought it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr A chose to 
buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended  a policy that was right for him, and I dont think  any 
clearer information wouldve made Mr A change his mind about  applying for the policy. 
This means  I dont  think the MPPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already  offered to give Mr A back some of the 
cost of the MPPI.  I dont think it needs  to do anything  more. 
If its not already  done so Halifax will make  arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive issued my 
final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8327579