K820x#14complaint
Mr V and Ms O complain  about the rejection of a claim by Covea Insurance plc. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr V and Ms O hold buildings cover  with Covea that covers their second home. Following a
burst pipe they tried to claim under this, but Covea rejected the claim. Mr V and Ms O
complained to us.
One of our adjudicators looked  in to the matter  and felt that the complaint should succeed.
Covea did not consider  the adjudicator had considered all the facts appropriately so asked
that the case be reviewed. The file has therefore  been passed to me.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  At the moment I am not inclined to
uphold the complaint, Ill explain  why.
There are two main issues that have  been discussed here. Whether the house  was lived in
and whether loft hatches need to have been  open  and what house does this apply  to.
My view is that the house wasnt lived in at the time of claim. That requires the resident to be
present within  the last 48 hours, and it seems  clear to me that this wasnt  the case.
Someone visiting the property is not enough, they need to be living  there, which Id expect to
include staying overnight, and there is no suggestion someone was at the time of claim.
The policy also requires loft hatches to be left open  if someone isnt living there.  This isnt
that rare a clause,  and is clearly designed  to ensure  that any heating system  can influence
the loft space and stop pipes from freezing and then bursting and releasing  water later when
water starts to flow again. Mr V and Ms O have agreed that the hatches werent left open, so
I think this defeats their claim.
I do note the arguments  against  this. That the clause is unclear, and that the consumers
would never  have agreed to such a clause due to the inconvenience of adhering  to it, as the
hatches werent easily accessible.
I dont agree the policy is unclear here. The loft clause applies to additional properties and
the policy does  list the second home  as the additional residence. I think it is clear  enough
that it is this property that the clause applies to.
As to whether  the consumers  would have bought this cover had they considered the impact
of the clause that is a matter they would need  to take up with the broker who sold them  the
cover. I cant say Covea  are responsible  for this.
My current  view is that the claim fails. The clause  applies and was not complied with.
Since my provisional decision Covea  have no further comments  to make.  Mr V and Ms O 
have questioned a number of issues. The lived  in definition, the change in absence  rules in 
the policy, and the difficulty of opening  the hatches.  
Ref: DRN87416012my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr V and Ms O will be disappointed  but I still think the complaint fails. 
With regard to the lived in requirements and absence rules  these  are matters they really 
need to take up with their broker. Covea sell the policy  they wish to and it is up to buyers 
(and brokers) to make sure the cover  is what they require. If they had purchased  the policy 
direct from Covea I could have looked  at what information they were given. But, as they 
used a broker it would be for them to ensure it was the correct  cover and that Mr V and Ms O 
understood the various clauses. If that didnt happen  its really up to Mr V and Ms O to 
discuss this with their broker. 
I also dont doubt  the hatches  are difficult to open, and people wouldnt do so on a regular 
basis, but again that suggests this might  not have been the right policy for them.  It doesnt  
mean Covea  should  provide cover anyway.  
As for whether opening the hatches would have made any difference thats  clearly  hard to 
say, but it would be for Mr V and Ms O to prove it wouldnt rather  than Covea prove  it would. 
An indicator  might also be if pipes in the building were damaged  at the same  time as those 
in the roof space. I havent seen  any indication of this. 
Finally I note the consumers mention of Covea  leaving furnishings to rot by putting  them  still 
wet into bags. I suspect  this was on the basis that if the claim was valid Covea would have 
replaced them. I dont  think I can consider  that here, as I dont  think  Covea can be held 
responsible for the claim eventually failing. But. It might be that Mr V and Ms O could 
highlight this issue to Covea separately as a customer service issue.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8741601