K821x#15Complaint
Mr F has complained about a loan he took out through  Elevate Credit International Limited 
trading as Sunny. He says Sunny lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr F took out a running credit facility  (RCF) with Sunny on 13 August 2014. This had a credit 
limit of £500.  
This RCF worked similarly to that of a credit  card, in that it had a credit limit from which  funds 
could be withdrawn up to the agreed credit limit. Each withdrawal could be repaid over five 
months. There wasnt a limit on how long the facility could run for. The credit agreement  
Sunny has provided  shows  that if Mr F withdrew the full £500  on the day he was given the 
facility he was expected to repay this in weekly instalments of £45.25  over five months. In 
total Mr F drew down on the facility on 10 occasions  and the facility was fully repaid by 
January 2015.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Fs complaint and thought Sunny had treated him fairly 
when it provided  Mr F with the RCF. The adjudicator also reviewed how the facility  was 
used, and she thought that Mr F showed  signs of financial difficulty when Sunny allowed 
further drawdowns from and including 29 October  2014. 
Mr F appears to have accepted the findings  of the adjudicator. 
However, Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicators conclusions. Sunny made a number of 
points including;
Mr F was using  a small percentage of his declared income to service the RCF
Mr Fs borrowing pattern is common for people who use the facility  and
Mr F never  informed Sunny that he was having financial difficulties. 
As no agreement has been reached the case has now been  passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to reasonably 
conclude Mr F could  repay the loan in a sustainable  manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this 
in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough  checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN86477892But in certain circumstances we might  think a business should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint. 
To be clear, Mr F wasnt given a payday  loan he had to repay all of what  he borrowed,  plus 
the interest,  due when  he next got paid. He was given a facility where there was an 
expectation that hed repay what he borrowed plus the interest due within a period of five 
months. Therefore,  I think the checks Sunny carried out had to provide enough information 
for it to be able to understand  whether Mr F would  likely be able to repay  this facility within 
five months if he withdrew his full credit limit.
Before granting the RCF Sunny  asked Mr F about  his monthly  income, and it also completed  
a credit check. Mr F declared a monthly income of £3,033. Given  this was the start of the 
lending relationship I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny  to have relied on the income  
information it was provided with. So, I dont  think at this point it wouldve been proportionate 
of Sunny to have  verified what Mr F was saying about his income. Therefore, I dont think  
Sunny was wrong to have initially approved the RCF.
However, There was also an expectation  in October  2014, when the eighth  drawdown under 
the RCF was granted, that Sunny would review and monitor how Mr F was using the RCF 
facility. CONC 6.7.2  says; A firm must  monitor a customers repayment record and take 
appropriate action  where there are signs of actual  or possible repayment  difficulties.  
So it wasnt  enough  for Sunny to just assess the further lending based  on what  it knew  when 
the RCF had initially been approved  in August  2014.  It also needed to monitor how Mr F was 
using the facility - and then step in and provide help when or if it could see Mr F was, or was 
likely, having financial difficulties.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and 
thought about what this means for Mr Fs complaint.
I can see that Mr F had a credit limit under the RCF of £500. He initially took the full amount 
on what appears to be the day the facility was approved.  And Mr F repaid all what  he owed 
(including the full principal  amount  borrowed)  on 26 August 2014.
Ref: DRN86477893Then, three days later, Mr F returned and borrowed the same amount again  taking him 
back up to his credit limit. Over the next 10 days Mr F makes a total of six payments towards 
the amount on his facility. On 10 September Mr F borrowed £200 and then a few days later 
he borrowed  an additional  £37.30  which seems  to have taken him back up to his credit 
limit. 
So at this point,  one month  after having  the facility,  Mr F had borrowed, made repayments 
and had gone back up to his credit  limit three times.  This is despite Sunny expecting  Mr F to 
have made  repayments  over at least a five month period. Following  around  15 repayments 
Mr F brought  the balance on his facility to zero by 20 October 2014.
The next day Mr F started to use the facility again, this time, taking a number of small 
drawdowns four in the space of a week - taking what he owed back up towards his credit 
limit. At that point he owed £400.   
By now, Mr Fs indebtedness  was at a level comparable to the position he was in following 
the start of the facility in August 2014, despite  having repaid what  he borrowed on three 
separate occasions.  
I think Sunny  should have  been aware  by 29 October (the ninth drawdown in total and fifth 
drawdown in eight days), that, Mr F wasnt using his account as intended  or making  any 
headway in repaying his loan. The way in which Mr F was using the facility I think was a sign 
that Mr F was having actual or possible repayment difficulties. I think  its fair to say that Mr F 
was most likely needing to borrow further from Sunny in order to fill a hole in his finances  
that was made by making repayments to Sunny. 
So, Im upholding  Mr Fs complaint about his borrowing under the RCF from 
29 October 2014. And Ive set out what Sunny should do to put things right as detailed 
below.
Putting things  right
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on drawdowns on the RCF from
29 October 2014;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  on Mr Fs credit file about  the RCF from
29 October 2014.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN86477894My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Fs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr F as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8647789