K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about Miss Ps residential mortgage with HSBC  UK Bank Plc. The core of 
the complaint  is how HSBC dealt with Miss Ps request for a redemption statement in the 
summer of 2018, and how, when she didnt receive the statement, it then handled her 
complaint. Miss P says the failure to send a statement means  shes missed an opportunity  to 
re-mortgage to another  lender on better  terms.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 10 September 2019, I set out, with reasons,  the basis  
on which I was minded to determine this complaint, subject to the further  submissions of the 
parties. I gave the parties until 24 September 2019 to reply; both have done so, and 
I summarise the responses  below.
Miss P said that in her case,  not knowing the exact amount of the redemption  figure  did 
hinder her re-mortgage  application, because she was right at the upper limit of her income 
multiplier and was in an ERC period. 
HSBC said whilst K could  have sent a message asking the mortgage department to send out 
a redemption statement, that wasnt the normal way of doing things. HSBC  also thought 
£250 was too much compensation;  it says Miss P hasnt suffered a financial loss but will pay 
her £100  instead.  Lastly, HSBC said its happy to assist in progressing my suggestion of a 
pre-arranged appointment to sort out the online and mobile banking  passwords.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded 
I should depart from my provisional decision,  but Ill address  the further points from the 
parties.
I can see why, in the circumstances shes described, Miss P would want  to have a clear 
picture of how much  shed  need to apply for to redeem the HSBC  mortgage. But I dont think 
the fact that HSBC hadnt sent one directly to her should have stopped her from applying.  As 
I said in the provisional  decision, her solicitor or conveyancer could  have made the request 
through its own channel, and if need  be the amount applied for readily adjusted. Lenders are 
used to that happening.
As for HSBCs response, Im not sure how it helps  anyone  to say that its not normal 
procedure for its staff to send a message to another department on behalf of a customer  
whose circumstances  prevent them temporarily from contacting said department 
themselves. 
On the very same day that its representative  K used  his initiative and discretion to help 
Miss P solve one problem, he refused to use the same attributes to help her solve  another. 
Its disappointing that this should  happen,  and astonishing that HSBC defends it with such  
rigidity of thinking.
As far as my award is concerned, its not at all clear to me why HSBC  raises the question of 
financial loss. My provisional decision made it very clear the proposed award was to 
compensate Miss P for her time and trouble, and Im satisfied the amount is appropriate.
Ref: DRN89142262my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and in full and final settlement, order  
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Miss P £250  compensation.  My final decision concludes this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019. Separately, Id ask Miss P also to let the 
adjudicator (or his manager) know if shed like our help in organising an appointment at a 
local branch for resetting  her passwords.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89142263CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Miss Ps residential mortgage with HSBC UK Bank Plc. The core of the 
complaint is how HSBC  dealt with Miss Ps request for a redemption statement in the summer of 
2018, and how, when she didnt receive  the statement, it then handled  her complaint.  Miss P says the 
failure to send a statement  means shes  missed an opportunity to re-mortgage to another  lender on 
better terms.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex. Ive read everything,  but in 
what follows,  I have, summarised  events in rather less detail than theyve been  presented. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  
mention something,  it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. This approach  is consistent with what  our enabling  legislation requires 
of me. 
It allows me to focus  on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-
tracked by matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion  peripheral or, in some 
instances, have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another  reason  I have left out a lot of the 
detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when  my decision is published.
Miss P took the mortgage out in 2016; she borrowed  £85,000, repayable  over 28 years, on an initial  
fixed rate of 2.39%.  The fixed rate runs until 30 April 2021,  and if Miss P repays the mortgage before  
that date,  shes liable for an early repayment charge (ERC) on the closing balance.
In 2017, HSBC put a gone  away  marker  on the mortgage account when it became concerned  that 
Miss Ps address  wasnt recorded  correctly. The marker  wasnt  removed until the summer of 2018,  by 
which time Miss P hadnt received two annual  mortgage statements. This was the subject of a 
complaint to this service, which was determined in a final decision from a fellow ombudsman  in 
December 2018. 
The complaint Im dealing with is about something different,  and to be clear, Im not in any way 
revisiting the outcome of the earlier complaint  (aside  from anything else, our rules dont allow  me to). 
Ive mentioned the earlier  complaint here, and will do again in due course, because  it has some 
bearing on what  Im deciding in the current complaint.
In August 2018, Miss P asked HSBC  for a redemption  statement; she did this by email.  HSBCs agent 
told her shed  need  to contact the mortgage  service centre or go to a local branch  for this information. 
At this time, Miss P was limited in her means of contacting  the bank.  I wont disclose  any detail, out of 
respect for Miss Ps privacy, but in essence, she was hospitalised and infirm. She had also been 
locked out of her online  and mobile  banking  access.
Miss P complained  at how the agent had dealt with her request, and was dismayed to receive a reply 
from the agent. In October 2018,  without having received  a formal final response from HSBC, Miss P 
brought the complaint  to us. Initially, the adjudicator to whom it was allocated thought  it was a 
duplicate of the complaint  we were already dealing with about the gone away marker  and the annual 
mortgage statements. Miss P corrected that in an email  dated 27 November  2018.  I summarise below 
(in my own words) the points Miss P said this complaint was about:
Ref: DRN89142264HSBCs agent refused  to contact the mortgage centre to request the redemption statement  for 
her. She couldnt  get it herself because she was locked out of electronic banking and, as I 
mentioned earlier,  hospitalised and infirm;
The agent  dealt  with the complaint about himself  and lied in doing so  and her requests to be 
referred to another  agent and then a manager were  refused;
HSBC took more  than the permitted  eight weeks to deal with the complaint  and offered her £25, 
which was inadequate.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said,  in essence,  that it was 
reasonable of HSBC  to insist Miss P request the redemption statement  by secure  means, to protect 
her personal  data. He said there was evidence Miss Ps mobile banking was active and that she was 
registered for online  banking but hadnt used it. He didnt  address the issues around the agent 
addressing the complaint  about himself, as that point had been covered  in the final decision on the 
earlier complaint. Lastly, he said that whilst it was disappointing, the lack of a final response on the 
complaint about the redemption statement hadnt prevented Miss P from referring the complaint to us.
Miss P asked  for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, and in May of this year,  the 
complaint came to me. I looked at the case file and immediately concluded that the complaint wasnt 
yet ready to be decided by an ombudsman. There were enquiries I considered needed to be asked of 
both parties;  but more importantly  Miss P was, at that time, waiting  to receive further documentation  
following a data subject  access request. It would  have been procedurally unfair of me to have 
determined Miss Ps complaint at that time.
I returned the case  to the adjudicator to pursue the additional  enquiries and allow Miss P the 
opportunity to receive the further documentation, consider it, and make any further submissions  she 
wished the reviewing  ombudsman to take into account.  Thats now happened, and the complaint is 
back with me to review  and determine. Meanwhile, Miss P tells us she has visited a branch  of HSBC 
to try and reset her mobile and online banking  passwords,  but wasnt successful. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. But Ill make  some general observations before dealing  with the 
substance of the complaint.
Were not the regulator  of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal  processes or how 
they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual 
disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides  
instructions on how we investigate  a complaint.  We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference  from anyone else.
Miss P has expressed concern that a reference by the adjudicator to her having made a lot of 
complaints would prejudice my view of her case. I have  two things to say on that; first, its been 
established that it wasnt  our adjudicator (or anyone at this service) who mentioned her having made  
a lot of complaints. Secondly, regardless  of who said what, my remit  is review this complaint, 
impartially and independently, by reference to the evidence that is relevant to it, and nothing  else. I 
have no concerns whatsoever about how many  other complaints Miss P may or may not have made.
Its up to us to decide what evidence we need to decide a complaint, where we should  get it from,  and 
what weight we should  attach to it once we have  it. Its also my judgement to make on when  we have 
everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  This might seem a complex  affair  on first glance; 
actually, I think its a simpler complaint than its been made to look.  
I know that Miss P feels very strongly  about  the customer service elements of her complaint;  the 
delays, handling errors and the seemingly intractable problem of how to get her electronic banking 
access restored. Ill return to these in due course, but it does  seem to me that the real crux of this 
complaint  the issue everything else hangs off  is the redemption statement. 
Ref: DRN89142265I mentioned earlier that the earlier complaint about  the gone away marker had some bearing  on how 
the redemption statement situation unfolded;  Ill explain why. On 7 August  2018,  HSBCs agent  
(whom Ill call K) wrote  to Miss P regarding the gone away marker. In that letter,  he said that, given  
Miss Ps hospitalisation, hed used his discretion to accept her address  verification,  remove the 
marker and issue her with the two missing  annual statements. 
That tells me  that by 7 August 2018, whatever concerns  HSBC  may have had previously about the 
accuracy  and  validity  of Miss Ps address were now resolved. The reason this is critical to the 
outcome of the current complaint is that 7 August  2018  was also the date Miss P requested the 
redemption statement, in an email exchange also with K. 
The reply she received  from K was that shed  need to speak to the mortgage service centre. But given 
what K clearly already knew about Miss Ps circumstances,  and given  the discretion hed already 
exercised in removing the gone away marker, I cant think of any reason  why K could not simply 
have contacted  the mortgage service centre on her behalf and instructed it to issue the statement. 
There would have been no security risk in doing so; the redemption statement would  have been 
despatched to the mortgaged property address and K, remember, had written to Miss P that very day 
to say hed removed the gone away marker as he was satisfied the address was valid. If K had used 
the same discretion to take that one extra step, the complaint before me now,  including all the 
customer service  and complaint-handling elements  of it, most likely  need never have happened. In 
short, HSBC came up short,  and failed to treat Miss P fairly. What I must now assess,  is how it should 
properly compensate her for that.
Miss P has told us that not receiving the redemption  statement prevented her from starting a re-
mortgage to another lender. Our adjudicator said there was no guarantee the re-mortgage application 
would have succeeded, Miss P took great exception to that. I can see both sides here; no one likes to 
think theres any reason  for a lender to turn them down  for credit,  and Miss P has presented a 
pressing case  for her own credit-worthiness. But its also the case that it cant be assumed that an 
application for credit will be successful. No one is entitled  to borrow money.
But theres a more straightforward point, which is that a redemption statement  isnt required to start a 
re-mortgage transaction. Its possible to begin the application with a general idea of how much one 
needs to borrow, and of course its been  established that HSBC had just issued the two missing 
annual statements from 2016 and 2017. It would have quite possible  indeed  normal  for Miss P to 
use the balance from her most  recent annual statement as a guide for starting the re-mortgage 
process. 
Then, once shed instructed  a solicitor or licensed  conveyancer to do the legal work in connection with 
the re-mortgage, one of the first things the solicitor or conveyancer would do is obtain an up-to-date 
redemption statement from HSBC through its own channels.  That information  would  then be relayed 
to the new lender so that the amount  being applied  for can be adjusted, if need be. 
Looked at in that context, Im not minded to award Miss P redress based on her missing out on an 
opportunity to re-mortgage  due to non-receipt  of a redemption statement. But I do think  she deserves  
compensation for her time and trouble. For the lack of a redemption statement, and all of the other 
linked issues about how HSBC dealt with her complaint  about it, Im minded  to award Miss P £250 
compensation.
Theres one more thing to consider, and thats the resetting of passwords  to restore  Miss Ps access  
to electronic banking channels.  The adjudicator has said this wasnt part of the original complaint 
referred to us, so not within our remit to decide. Miss P disagrees, saying  that its been  a theme all 
along. Taking a step back, as I must, again I can see both points of view.  
Being locked  out of her electronic banking  channels was an issue for Miss P back  in the summer of 
2018; but as far as I can tell, her unsuccessful  visit to a branch to try and restore access happened 
Ref: DRN89142266after wed begun considering  her complain. Strictly, speaking, it doesnt then fall within my remit, but 
even if it did, this isnt really  something that we can intervene in. Its something that HSBC and Miss P 
have to find a way of resolving between them.  Miss P says HSBC  should  offer the facility to reset  
passwords by post, but as I indicated earlier,  Ive no power to tell a bank how it should design and 
operate its business.
I can see how frustrated Miss P gets at being advised that to reset her passwords,  she should simply 
do something shes already  tried  visit a branch  that didnt work. It seems to me, though that there 
may be a way forward here. If an appointment could be set up by mutual  agreement  for Miss P to see 
someone in a branch,  where the staff member knows in advance why shes visiting (to reset her 
online and mobile banking passwords) and Miss P knows in advance what she needs to bring with 
her by way of identity proof, theres more of a chance the exercise will succeed.
I cant  order  that to happen  as part of any decision I issue on the complaint. Aside from the question  
of my remit,  it would also require me to order the bank and Miss P to do something,  and I have no 
power to order Miss P to do anything. I can merely suggest it, and hope the parties agree  that it has a 
chance of resolving what must be an important issue for Miss P.
It occurs to me that setting  up an appointment is something that might be more easily  achieved on the 
telephone rather than in writing. Im aware  that the telephone is not Miss Ps preferred  channel of 
communication, but it may be possible for us to make the appointment  on her behalf,  if she wished us 
to do that. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to the further submissions of the parties by 24 September 
2019 my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold  this complaint in part by ordering HSBC UK 
Bank Plc to pay Miss P £250  compensation.
Ill review my provisional decision after 24 September 2019, or sooner than that if both parties  confirm 
theyve said and provided  all they wish to that is materially new.  Theres no need for either party to 
repeat anything theyve already said.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8914226