K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, was irresponsible  when it 
provided a number of loans  to him.
background
Mr S took seven loans  with QuickQuid between June 2016 and September  2017.  This table 
contains some of the information QuickQuid has provided about Mr Ss loans.
 date takenprincipal 
amountdate repaidterm 
(days)number  of 
repaymentshighest 
repayment  
amount
Loan  1 09/06/16 £400.00 30/06/16 50 2 £492.80
Loan  2 20/10/16 £500.00 25/10/16 41 1 £664.00
Loan  3 31/10/16 £100.00 30 1 £124.00
Loan  3a 01/11/16 £300.0001/11/16
£493.60
Loan  4 16/11/16 £900.00 30/11/16 76 3 £1,130.40
Loan  5 22/03/17 £300.00 24/05/17 98 3 £379.20
Loan  6 25/05/17 £750.00 29/08/17 92 3 £918.00
Loan  7 13/09/17 £500.00 outstanding 78 3 £624.00
The loan amounts varied between £100 and £900. Loan 3 was topped up the day after the 
original principal was advanced (Loan 3a). 
And the length  of time over which Mr S agreed to repay the loans also varied. For example, 
Loan 1 was taken over 50 days and was to be repaid  through two instalments, whereas 
Loans 2 and 3 were  taken over 41 and 30 days and they were  each due to be repaid  though  
one instalment. However, Loans 4, 5, 6 and 7 were  taken  over a longer period (between  76 
and 98 days) and were repayable through three instalments.  
The loans which were  due to be repaid through more than one instalment were structured 
such that the earlier repayments were  made  up only of interest and so were  much  lower than 
the final (balloon)  repayment which included interest and the whole of the principal sum 
borrowed.
I understand that there is an outstanding balance on Loan 7.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ss complaint about  Loans 2 to 7. But QuickQuid doesnt agree 
with his assessment.  So the case has come to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision. If 
Mr S accepts my decision, it will be binding on the parties.
Ref: DRN83440422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. If loan payments are affordable  on that 
basis it might be an indication  a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it 
doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define 
sustainable as meaning that a consumer should  be able to repay the credit  without undue 
difficulties and in particular, over the life of the agreement whilst being able to meet  other 
reasonable commitments  and without having  to borrow  further.   
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable - so a lender shouldve realised that it 
wouldnt be responsible  to provide any further loans. So I've also looked  Mr Ss lending  
history with QuickQuid to consider if there was a point at which  QuickQuid should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unstainable or otherwise harmful for him. 
Ref: DRN83440423Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint about  Loan  1. I have thought  about  this and 
although borderline,  I tend to agree with our adjudicator. I say its borderline  because this 
was Mr Ss first loan and he was applying for £400   a relatively high amount compared to 
his declared monthly  income of £1,277. QuickQuid says that through its checks it 
established that Mr Ss monthly estimated disposable income (EDI)  was £493. The balloon 
repayment due at the end of July was £492.80 and so was going to take up all of that EDI. 
But I havent seen  enough to say that - given that this was Mr Ss first loan repayable  
through two instalments - it was unreasonable for QuickQuid to conclude that Mr S would 
most likely be able to repay  this loan as and when  the repayments fell due in a sustainable 
way.
However, when Mr S returned  to QuickQuid almost four months later for Loan 2, it ought to 
have realised that repayment of this loan was unlikely  to be affordable  in a sustainable 
manner. Mr S borrowed more than he had for Loan 1 - £500. And he was borrowing it over a 
single repayment  period.  This time he was going to have to repay the whole loan by one 
repayment of £664.  
Not only was this repayment going to take up a significant amount of Mr Ss declared 
monthly income (which  had now increased  to £1,443), that repayment was more than 
QuickQuid itself had calculated to be his monthly  EDI (£659). So although QuickQuid 
thought that Mr S had a higher EDI at this point, the repayment of the loan was going to take 
up all of it. In these  circumstances it was highly likely that Mr S wouldnt be in a position  to 
repay Loan 2 sustainably.  It was very likely hed have to borrow  again to plug the hole in his 
finances caused by this repayment. And indeed that is what  happened.
Mr S repaid  Loan  2 early  but within six days he returned for Loan 3. I accept that this was for 
a lower amount  but this was his third loan in just over four months. This pattern of taking 
high cost short term loans  and repaying them early,  only to borrow again suggested that 
Mr S was struggling to manage his finances.  And the following day (1 November 2016) Mr S 
returned to QuickQuid to top up his loan by a further £300. So now he was due to repay 
almost £494 at the end of the month.  I'm not persuaded that QuickQuid could reasonably  
and fairly  conclude that this loan would be sustainable for Mr S. 
Additionally the unusual  pattern of behaviour  by Mr S in borrowing quite significant  sums and 
repaying them early  shouldve sounded  alarm bells for QuickQuid. Mr S repaid Loan 3 on the 
same day he topped it up. In my experience this type of behaviour is often  indicative of 
someone who is using  high-cost  short-term credit to fund gambling transactions.  So when, 
two weeks later, Mr S came back to QuickQuid for Loan 4, it shouldve  done significantly 
more to understand what was going on with his finances. Had it done so it wouldve seen  
that Mr S was gambling very large sums through on-line  betting. 
But that aside,  this loan was for £900 repayable  over 76 days through  three  instalments - the 
highest of which was over £1,130. QuickQuid had calculated a monthly EDI of £659  for Mr S.  
I dont think it was reasonable  - given the pattern of borrowing and the sums involved  - for 
QuickQuid to think that Mr S would  be in a position  to save sufficient  funds to meet  the 
repayments when  they fell due. So it wasnt responsible to provide this loan to him
Mr S again  repaid Loan 4 early. But Im satisfied that when he came  back  for Loan 5 less 
than four months  later, the overall pattern of his lending meant that QuickQuid should 
reasonably have seen that further lending would  be unsustainable or otherwise harmful  for 
him.  
Ref: DRN83440424And this was borne out when Mr S failed to repay  Loan 6 as agreed and was charged  a late 
fee. Despite that, QuickQuid went  on to provide Loan 7 to Mr S two weeks  later. He made 
two interest only repayments but didnt make any further repayments from the end of 
October 2017 after which time a late fee was again  charged and default interest was added 
to the balance.
The purpose of these loans was to act as a temporary solution  to short-term cash flow 
problems. But this history  suggested that it was unlikely that Mr S was borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall  rather  he was borrowing to meet an on-going  need.  This had the effect 
of unfairly prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to take expensive  credit intended for 
short-term use over an extended period. In turn this was likely to have had other  negative  
implications for Mr S including  restricting his ability to access mainstream  credit   which in 
itself would keep  him in the market for this kind of high cost loan.
So in summary Im upholding Mr Ss complaint  about Loans 2, 3 (including the top-up), 4, 5, 
6 and 7 and I require QuickQuid to put things right.
putting things right 
QuickQuid shouldnt have  provided  Loans  2 to 7. I understand that there is an outstanding 
balance on Loan  7. If it has sold the outstanding debt it should  buy this back if it is able to do 
so and then take the following steps.  If QuickQuid is unable to buy the debt back then it 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
I require QuickQuid to:
A)add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mr S toward interest,  fees and 
charges on Loans 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6
B)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mr S which are 
considered as part of A), calculated from the date he originally made the payments to 
the date the complaint is settled
C)remove all interest,  fees and charges from the outstanding balance on Loan 7 and 
treat all repayments made  by Mr S on this loan as though they had been  repayments  
of the principal. 
If this results  in Mr S having made  overpayments  then QuickQuid should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest*  calculated  on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. It 
should then also refund the amounts calculated in A) and B) and move to step D).
If there is still an outstanding principal  balance on Loan 7 after QuickQuid has 
removed all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding balance  and treated all 
repayments made by Mr S on this loan as though they had been repayments of the 
principal, then the amounts calculated in A) and B) may be used by QuickQuid to 
repay that remaining principal balance. If this results in a surplus then the surplus  
should be paid to Mr S. However if there is still an outstanding balance then 
QuickQuid should  work  positively  and sympathetically with Mr S to agree an 
affordable repayment  plan with him.
Ref: DRN83440425D)remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to Loans 2, 
3 and 4 
E)The overall pattern  of Mr Ss borrowing for Loans 5, 6 and 7 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So QuickQuid should remove  all reference to these 
loans from Mr Ss credit file. If it has sold Loan  7 it should ask the debt purchaser  to 
do the same. QuickQuid  doesnt have to remove Loan  7 from Mr Ss credit file until it 
has been repaid,  but it should still remove any adverse information recorded  about it.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires QuickQuid  to deduct tax from this interest. It should give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part and require 
CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things right in the way I've explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8344042