K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Ald Automotive Limited  unfairly  charged him for a missing  service stamp 
when he returned  a van following the termination  of a contract hire agreement.
background
In August  2016  Mr S hired a van via a three year contract hire agreement with Ald 
Automotive. He decided that he wanted  to voluntarily terminate the agreement  in March  
2019 and contacted Ald Automotive.
Ald Automotive sent Mr S the date and details of the vehicle collection process  which was to 
be undertaken by an independent company. This included the collection  driver checking and 
recording any signs of damage  and then taking the vehicle to a centre  where an in-depth 
inspection would take place by an independent  assessor. It said that the vehicles condition  
would be evaluated  against industry standards as set by the British  Vehicle Rental & Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guidelines  as to whether any damage found was fair wear and tear. If 
any damage was found  to be outside  these guidelines then it would be chargeable. The van 
was also to be returned with its full service  history.
Mr S says he arranged for the van to be professionally tinkered and polished before 
collection and that the van was in excellent condition when it was collected. He also says 
that he provided the collection  driver with a copy of the vans service.
After the van was collected  Mr S received an invoice for £225 from Ald Automotive  for the 
refurbishment charge  for one damaged alloy (£50) together with a charge for a missing 
service stamp in the vans service book (£175).
Mr S says when he contacted Ald Automotive to complain about these charges he was told 
to send in a copy of the invoice for the missing service which he did in April 2019.
Ald Automotive continued  to invoice Mr S for the £225 it said was due for the missing  service 
stamp and damaged alloy. Mr S complained to Ald Automotive. Ald Automotive  said it was 
satisfied the damage  to the alloy was outside fair wear and tear. It said that there were 
photos showing the damage  which it provided to Mr S.
Ald Automotive also said that under the terms of the agreement Mr S had an obligation to 
service the van regularly in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations and that 
there was no evidence of the required service when Mr S had returned the van.
Mr S complained to this service. He said that although the service book hadnt been 
stamped the van had been serviced and hed provided proof of this to the driver whod 
collected the van and also later to Ald Automotive when it had requested he email it over. He 
said the van had been serviced  by one of the manufacturers approved dealership.  
Mr S also said he believed  the vans alloy wheel had been  damaged  by the driver whod 
collected it. He said the van had been  in pristine condition when hed handed it over. He 
said the photo had been taken some time later at a different location and he didnt accept it 
as proof  that hed caused the damage.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be partially upheld.  He said he 
thought the charge for the wheel had been  correctly applied. He said the photo clearly 
Ref: DRN86370142showed damage to the alloy that was above  fair wear and tear as set out in the BVRLA 
guidelines. He said he didnt accept that the damage  had been caused after the van had 
been collected as the driver had only taken it seven miles away  to be inspected. He also 
said he thought  the damage  looked longstanding  and as a result of being kerbed on 
several occasions.
But our investigator said he didnt think it was fair for Ald Automotive to charge for the 
missing service stamp. Mr S had provided evidence that the service had taken place as 
recommended at an approved dealership. Mr S had also provided a copy of the invoice 
proving the service had taken place to the driver whod collected the van. A further copy  had 
been sent to Ald Automotive.
Our investigator said that although the service book wasnt stamped, as it had been 
undertaken by an approved dealership, there  would  be an electronic record  of it. He also 
said that in the email  sent to Mr S setting out the collection and inspection arrangements  it 
said he should return Full service  history  e.g. service receipts plus a stamped service 
book (if available.)
He said that the words  if available seemed to indicate that a stamped service book wasnt 
necessary so long as other evidence was provided.  Our investigator said it was unfair  for   
Mr S to be charged £175 in these circumstances.
Ald Automotive disagreed  with our investigators view.  It said it didnt dispute whether the 
service had been carried out but that it hadnt  been  evidenced  in the expected  and agreed 
manner. It said it hadnt received  the service invoice  from the independent company nor via 
an email from Mr S. It said even if Mr S had emailed it over when he said he had this would  
have been 20 days after the van had been sold.
Ald Automotive said the terms and conditions were clear that Mr S was required to have the 
service book stamped  and if it wasnt then Mr S agrees to pay any costs borne by Ford 
Lease in the event that the incorrect servicing or the non-recording of the service devalues  
the vehicle or invalidates  the Manufacturers warranty.  It said as the van was sold without  a 
full service history it hadnt  reached  its cap trade.
Ald Automotive said the charge of £175  was in accordance with the agreement.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that Mr S has accepted what our investigator has said about the damage to the 
vans alloy and looking at the evidence of that I agree that this has been  properly  charged.  I 
dont need to go into that matter any further.
Its not disputed  that the van was properly serviced but what is disputed  is whether, in these 
circumstances, its fair for Mr S to be charged for the missing stamp.
Ref: DRN86370143Ive seen a copy  of the agreement and I can see that under its terms Mr S is required to 
have the service book  stamped. This didnt happen, although Mr S did have proof  that the 
dealership had serviced the van. However  Im aware that many dealerships no longer stamp
Service books as electronic records are kept instead  so Im not surprised that the stamp is 
missing. Ive seen it was the actual dealership that had supplied the van to Mr S that carried  
out this service.
Mr S was provided with an invoice  that showed the service had taken place. He says he 
gave that in when the van was collected from him. Ald Automotive  says it never received this 
proof and the van had to be sold on without a full service history resulting in a loss.
But Mr S has been  consistent  in saying  that he passed this document  on and I think its more 
likely than not that he did as he said he did and provided a copy  when the van was collected.  
I dont know why the invoice wasnt passed on to Ald Automotive  by the independent  
company but I dont  think I can reasonably  say the fault for that rests with Mr S.
Ive also seen that although  the agreement says the service book must be stamped  the 
return process says that proof of the service must be provided and this can include invoices. 
So I think this gives the impression that service  books  arent  always stamped and that proof 
is acceptable in other  forms so long as its official in nature.
I appreciate the van had to be sold without a full service history but I dont think I can 
reasonable say this is Mr Ss fault.  Im satisfied he supplied the invoice when  he returned the 
van. He also sent a further copy after hed received the charges invoice from Ald 
Automotive. And while I appreciate Ald Automotive  would  have  wanted  to sell the van on 
quickly the fact that Mr S provided the evidence too late wasnt his fault.  He provided the 
invoice in response to the charges hed received from Ald Automotive which was around one 
week after the van had been collected.
Im aware that any warranty  the van had would have  been unaffected by the service book 
not being stamped as there is an electronic  record  it had properly been undertaken.
So although  Mr S had responsibility  for having  the service book stamp  he did provide 
acceptable evidence  that the van had been  properly  serviced when he returned  it. In these 
circumstances I dont  think  its reasonable for Ald Automotive to charge him for the missing 
service stamp. So Im asking Ald Automotive  to cancel that charge and Im partially 
upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN86370144my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mr Ss complaint. To resolve this complaint Im 
asking Ald Automotive Limited to cancel the charge  of £175 for the missing service stamp. 
Mr S however, is required to pay £50 for the damage to the alloy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637014