K820x#14complaint
Mr N, on behalf of the company, is unhappy  with how HSBC  UK Bank Plc carried  out a 
safeguard review, which resulted in the companys business account being  closed.  
background
After considering the matter HSBC didnt uphold the companys complaint. Unhappy with the 
situation, the matter  was referred to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Based on the evidence,  she felt HSBC had 
acted reasonably. Still unhappy with the situation this complaint has now been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im aware  that a lot of information has 
been presented  to our service on this matter.  And I fully understand that Mr N feels  very 
strongly about this case. Please note that whilst I have considered  all the evidence  carefully,  
including all further  submissions since the investigator issued their view, my decision 
focuses on what I believe are the key issues in dispute. 
Overall I believe HSBC  has acted  reasonably. In this case HSBC undertook a know your 
customer review  called Safeguard. This is to ensure they are meeting the relevant legal and 
regulatory requirements. 
I can see that HSBC requested information from the company through letters and the online 
banking system. I appreciate the company says they didnt receive certain  correspondence  
from HSBC when its claimed to have  been  sent. Im satisfied this correspondence  was sent. 
Ultimately I cant  see that the company complied with the safeguard  review  and provided the 
necessary information  within the reasonable timeframes specified. I dont think HSBC has 
acted unfairly and Ive seen no evidence of corrupt behaviour on behalf  of HSBC.
HSBC gave notice  to close the account and this eventually took place. I note however that 
HSBC did accommodate  the company by allowing them access  to recent inward  credits  into 
their account. 
I do appreciate the implications all this has had on the company and their overdraft facility. 
But just like the investigator I think the company couldve  mitigated their circumstances by 
telling HSBC about the change of directors and submitting the required documentation  
sooner. Overall Im satisfied that HSBC  had a duty to ensure they met their legal and 
regulatory requirements by receiving  information from the company within  a specified 
timeframe. 
HSBCs terms  confirmed the actions  they would take if a customer didnt fully assist  with the 
review, which  ultimately was to exit the relationship. 
Ref: DRN86476422my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N, on behalf  of 
the company,  to accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8647642