K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mr R says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2001.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00  per £100 Mr R owed on his store  card. The policy 
would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr R couldnt 
work because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Mr R that the policy  was optional and get his consent before PPI 
could be applied to the account. Mr R says the PPI wasnt discussed with him. 
FICL says Mr R took out the PPI over the phone. Due to the time that has passed  since the 
sale, FICL has been unable to provide a recording of the call - I dont think that is surprising.  
So I cant say for certain what was said to Mr R during that phone call. But from what  we 
know about the way FICL  sold policies at the time,  I think its more  likely that FICL would 
have asked Mr R for his agreement to add the policy to his account. 
Mr R had already had the card for a number  of years before the PPI was added. So when 
the charge for the PPI would have started to show on his statements, if he didnt know what 
this amount was for and hadnt agreed  to taking out the cover, I think he would have raised 
this sooner than he did. 
So, based on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  that FICL made it clear the policy was 
optional and Mr R chose  to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
FICL has said it didnt recommend the policy to Mr R and, as I havent seen anything to make 
me think otherwise,  I think thats likely to be right. So it didnt have to check  if the policy  was 
right for him. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Mr R clear enough information about 
the policy to enable  him to decide for himself if he should take the policy.
Ref: DRN84436582Its possible  the information FICL gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But even if FICL had given  him better or clearer information, I dont think it would have 
made a difference. I still think he would have  taken out the policy. I say this because  Mr R 
was eligible for the policy  and he wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, 
such as having  unusual working  arrangements or a medical condition  of which  he was 
already aware.
And I think it would have provided a useful benefit  to him. Mr R has told us he wouldnt 
receive any sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work and his savings were  only 
the equivalent of less than three  months  of his salary. But this policy  would have paid out 
until he returned to work  or until the outstanding balance had been repaid  whichever came  
first. So I think  this policy would have given him reassurance that his card payments  would  
still be met if he wasnt earning.
So overall, when  taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Mr R has lost out as a 
result of anything FICL  may have  done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8443658