K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs Y bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  She applied  for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs Y for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £136.88  a month towards  Mrs Ys mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £8.14 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs Y was employed as an administrator.  She has told us she was entitled  to up 
to three  months sick pay from employer  but has not indicated  she would have been entitled 
to any redundancy  pay. And didnt  have any other  means of repaying  her mortgage should 
she be unable to work. Mrs Y has said she had some  medical  conditions  at the time of the 
sale. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in March 2006. 
Mrs Ys representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ys representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs Y wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ys 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mrs Y about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs Y and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN89979852The information Mrs Y received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs Y disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ys. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ys complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BOS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN89979853The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ys 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ys complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs Y with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
Whether BOS gave Mrs Y sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs Y, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs Y suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN89979854Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs Y and BOS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ys complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs Y know  she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
As this sale took place  in a meeting there are no records of exactly  what may have been 
said to Mrs Y about the PPI policy. The actual application documents from the time are no 
longer available. But a declaration signed  by Mrs Y when making the application has been 
provided by BOS. This declaration  covers a range of thing that are relevant to the mortgage 
and PPI application and there is a section about the PPI, where it indicates Mrs Y is 
agreeing that all the information provided  for the PPI application is true to the best of her 
knowledge. This declaration also indicates  that Mrs Y has agreed  to apply for the PPI.
This all indicates that discussion  about  the PPI did take place and Mrs Y would  have been  
given the choice to take out the PPI at the time. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs Y knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says that advice  was provided during this sale and Mrs Y hasnt indicated she 
disagrees with this. So I think it is most likely  advice  was provided. 
This means  BOS had to advise Mrs Y with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BOS took to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mrs Y. It seems Mrs Y had limited recollection  of the details of the 
meeting and there is no record  of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  This is 
unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited information 
about Mrs Ys financial circumstances, but there  is no specific  evidence  to show  the adviser 
took steps to establish whether Mrs Y would have been caught by the significant  exclusions 
and limitations which  might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  BOS considered whether  Mrs Y had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs Y given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mrs Y, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Mrs Y met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN89979855Mrs Y had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mrs Ys ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Mrs Y was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the three months  sick pay 
benefits she says she may have  been entitled  to. She had no other  means to make  
pay her mortgage and the policy  would  have helped  Mrs Y manage the 
consequences if she was unable to work.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs Y, as I have 
seen no evidence to suggest this wasnt the case. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs Y. There  was 
nothing about  Mrs Ys employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mrs Y has told us about a 
number of conditions  that occurred prior to taking  out the policy. The policy excluded 
claims for medical conditions  or symptoms where these occurred in the 12 months 
before the policy start date and then reoccurred again  in the first 12 months the 
policy was active. None of the conditions Mrs Y has referred  to, occurred or were  
treated in the 12 months before the start of the policy so would appear not to have  
been caught by this policy limitations  and exclusions. 
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mrs Ys 
circumstances and the limit of three  months on her sick pay employment  income.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Mrs Y sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BOS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs Y was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mrs Y would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mrs Y agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs Y Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS  gave Mrs Y all of the information she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
Ref: DRN89979856In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ys representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ys. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ys representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs Y about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ys representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs Y has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mrs Y? To what extent  did Mrs Y suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs Y. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs Y 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs Y 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs Y, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs Y has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Mrs Y would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mrs Y says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs Y had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised her that there was a suitable 
Ref: DRN89979857product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ys circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mrs Y knew  she would have to pay something 
for the policy, it isnt clear  if BOS told her the exact premium at the point Mrs Y applied for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mrs Y would  have  been  told the cost before the 
policy started and she paid for the policy for a few years,  so if the costs were significantly at 
odds with their expectations  at the point of sale, its possible she might have raised that with 
BOS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mrs Y would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which she agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not certain that BOS made  clear  exactly  what  Mrs Y would get back  in return  
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mrs Ys expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  her mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs Y thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mrs Y 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and that 
had arisen in the 12 months prior to the start of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs Y 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs Y be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs Y pause  for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs Y from taking  out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Ys circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN89979858cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs Y says she had had some medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of these  conditions, I dont think  better information about this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  none of the medical conditions Mrs Y has referred to had occurred or 
been treated in the 12 months  prior to taking out the policy and so would most likely  not have 
been caught by the restrictions. Although chronic  conditions may have been excluded  for the 
first 12 months of the policy, as it was at least three  years since  any of the illnesses had 
occurred and been treated, I dont think Mrs Y would  have been concerned about any 
reoccurrence of any of her conditions  occurring in the first 12 months  of the policy, so this 
would not have affected he thoughts about taking out the policy.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mrs Y wouldve been  caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs Y might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have required some additional medical evidence, I dont think this would 
have dissuaded  Mrs Y from taking out the policy, as in her circumstances, she still had some 
good reasons  to take it out.
If Mrs Y had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job which in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Mrs Y was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation  
the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Mrs Y that any claim she made would be limited  to a 24-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but she 
had limited other means to fall back on and 24 months  was a much  longer period than Mrs Y 
would have received full sick pay for.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs Y would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Mrs Y be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs Y would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mrs Y 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN89979859Mrs Ys representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs Y would not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ys 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs Y 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs Y believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs Y in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mrs Y compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs Y thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mrs Y, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ys representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs Y and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
Ref: DRN899798510the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs Y in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8997985