K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
When he was in a Halifax branch, Mr M bought  the policy at the same  time as taking out a 
credit card in December 2000. It protected his monthly card repayments if he couldnt work 
as a result  of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to make a final decision.  
Mr M mainly said that he had good  benefits through work and he wouldnt have had any 
difficulty making the repayments if he was off sick. He also told us that if the costs versus the 
benefits of the policy  were  made  clear and the policy was presented  as optional he wouldnt 
have taken it out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
On the form Mr M completed to get his credit card theres a pre-printed cross in the box to 
have PPI added to the account. I think this probably reflects what Mr M told the advisor he 
wanted. Mr M signed the completed agreement next to where it says: Sign it only if you 
want to be legally bound by its terms. So I dont think its likely that Mr M wouldve signed 
the completed form before carefully  reading all the information to make  sure it was correct. 
On balance, I find that Halifax made Mr M aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose 
to take it.
Halifax told us it recommended the PPI to Mr M. If a business  makes  a recommendation 
about PPI, it doesnt  just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  way. It also has 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Mr M was eligible for the policy.  He told us that he was entitled to 6 months full sick pay 
followed by 6 months'  half pay from his employer. But the policy couldve paid out in full for 
longer than Mr M couldve depended on getting  full sick pay from his employer if he was off 
work as a result of accident or disability.
Ref: DRN85569042The policy wouldve paid out for 12 months if Mr M had an accident or he was sick or 
prevented by disability from working.  It also covered Mr M for up to 10 months at a time if he 
lost his job and was involuntarily unemployed. Repeat claims were possible.  Mr M told us 
that he didn't have  any significant other means  he couldve relied on to pay his credit  card if 
he wasn't working. So I think the PPI couldve been  useful for Mr M and I think it was 
suitable in his particular circumstances. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some circumstances when the policy wouldnt pay out. But 
I dont think having  more information  about  that wouldve  put Mr M off taking out PPI. I say 
this because it doesnt look as if there wouldve been any reason  why Mr M wouldnt have 
been able to take advantage of all the policy benefits. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr M when he bought the policy.  But he chose 
to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have  wanted  it. And it seems  
to have been affordable for him at the time.  As he paid for the policy each month,  Mr M 
couldve cancelled it anytime and without incurring any extra cost if he no longer wanted  to 
pay for the cover or he decided he didnt want PPI any longer. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr M still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been  better  informed as it gave 
him useful  protection in his particular  situation.  I dont think  better information wouldve 
stopped him buying it.
This means  I dont  find that Mr M has lost out as a result of anything  that Halifax did wrong.  
So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8556904