K820x#14complaint
Ms T says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Ms T bought  a PPI policy at the same time as she applied for a mortgage in one of 
the banks branches. Ms T says she would have taken out the PPI in 1993  but the forms the 
bank has provided  show she applied for this policy in 2001. It gave her protection  against  
accident, sickness and unemployment. She paid a monthly amount for it.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms T disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.  Lloyds cant  provide a copy  of the 2001 
policy so Ive relied on one from the nearest date available.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms T says she felt pressured to take out PPI and it wasnt clear at the time. I cant  know 
what was said in the meeting so I have considered Ms Ts comments carefully  and 
looked at the available paperwork from the sale. Ms T ticked  a box indicating  that she 
wanted PPI on her mortgage  application  form, and the option to decline it was set out 
with equal prominence. She then completed and signed a separate  PPI application form 
and direct debit mandate. And theres nothing on those documents  that I think  could 
reasonably have led her to believe  she had to have  PPI. 
I have thought carefully about what Ms T said but I havent found enough other evidence 
to fairly conclude she was pressured. Overall, I think Lloyds made Ms T aware the PPI 
was optional and she chose to take it out. 
Lloyds  recommended  the PPI to Ms T, and it seems to have been right for her based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. Ms T said she was entitled to six 
months sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out for each successful accident, sickness  
and unemployment  claim for up to 12 months. She had savings worth  less than three 
months salary  but the PPI would have  meant  she could have used these  for other  living 
expenses whilst not working. 
Ms T was borrowing quite a large sum of money,  secured against  her home. The impact  
of not being able to make  her mortgage  repayments would have been significant. So I 
think the PPI would have been  useful for Ms T if she lost her job or was sick. Ms T 
argues there was no medical reason preventing her from working but the PPI was there 
to protect  her if her circumstances  changed.  
Its possible Lloyds didnt give Ms T all the information she needed  before she decided to 
buy PPI. I dont  know when the cost was first made clear but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed  out the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. But Ms T doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of 
Ref: DRN89779412those things (such as the type of employment  contract or any pre-existing medical 
conditions). So I dont  think better  information wouldve changed her decision.
It follows I dont think Ms T has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8977941