K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that esure  Insurance Limited  didnt  pay him enough for his written-off car 
when he made a claim on his motor  insurance policy.
background
Mr B had only bought  his car just over a year before it was written-off. He paid £26,000 for it, 
so he was disappointed that esure only offered him £21,400. esure  said it had looked at the 
valuations given in three of the national trade guides for cars similar to Mr Bs car. It said it 
had paid him the average of the top two valuations. Mr B thought esure should have paid 
more because he thought his car was in better  than good condition and had leather seats.
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Bs complaint. She checked the valuations  given  in two 
of the guides esure had used and that set out in a fourth guide it hadnt  referred  to. All the 
valuations were roughly  in line with each other. The investigator said shed taken into 
account the low mileage and good condition of Mr Bs car when getting them. She pointed  
out that good is the best category in terms of a cars condition.  And she said the leather 
seats option didnt add to the cars market value. So she thought esure had made  a fair and 
reasonable offer to Mr B.
Mr B asked for another review of his complaint, so it was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont value cars, but we do check that insurers have acted reasonably in doing so. We 
think the fairest way to establish a cars  likely market value is to look at the valuations given 
in the trade  guides. The sums  quoted in them are based on a great deal of research carried 
out nationwide, so we think theyre  far more reliable than the asking  prices  quoted  in adverts.   
I think esure acted reasonably by offering Mr B the average of two of the three  prices  quoted  
in the guides it considered. I think the research done  by the investigator  confirmed that esure 
got the right valuations,  as all the figures she noted were similar. She also checked adverts  
for similar cars and noted that the prices  in them ranged from £18,000 to £22,000. 
Advertised prices usually allow for negotiation.  So I think  the fact that the highest price  she 
found was only a few hundred pounds higher than esures offer confirms  that it was fair.  
I know Mr B was very disappointed with esures  offer - given what hed paid for the car, its 
low mileage and condition  plus the leather seats.  The mileage and good condition were  
taken into account.  The only condition categories  are good/clean, average or below.
Many consumers consider their cars to be in excellent or pristine  condition,  but it isnt 
possible to give a car a better condition category than good. So Mr B hasnt  lost out 
because of that. Mr B may have paid more  for the cars optional leather seats, but many 
extras add to a cars comfort or look without increasing its market  value. 
As I think  esure  acted  fairly in valuing Mr Bs car, I cant  uphold  his complaint.
Ref: DRN87179372my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8717937