K821x#15Complaint
This complaint relates to HSBC UK Bank Plc releasing the monies  held by it for the late Mr 
L1 to someone who was not in possession of the authentic will.
It has been brought by solicitors on behalf  of Mr L1s son, Mr L2. Mr L2 is the executor of Mr 
L1s estate.
Background
Mr L1 passed away in early 2016. A relative of the late Mr L1 visited a HSBC  branch to 
inform it of his passing.  This third party presented a copy of Mr L1s death  certificate,  some  
personal identification documents and a copy of a handwritten will dated  October  2014,  in 
which this person was named as the executor of the will. Based on this information, HSBC 
released the monies held by it for Mr L1 to this third party.
Mr L2 contacted HSBC  a few months  later questioning the basis  on which  the money from 
Mr L1s accounts had been released. He said the will provided to HSBC was not valid and 
he was in possession  of the authentic will.
Following receipt of information from HSBC relating to the release of these monies, Mr L2s 
solicitors complained on his behalf to HSBC. They asked HSBC  to compensate Mr L2 for 
the loss he incurred as a result of HSBC paying  monies to a third party who had presented 
a defective will.
HSBC responded  and said it had determined that the monies  could be released to the third 
party based  on the paperwork presented to it which named this third party as an executor in 
that purported  will.
In late 2019, Mr L2 had Probate granted to him in favour  of his fathers estate using the will 
in his possession.  Following this, Mr L2s solicitors brought the complaint to our service on 
his behalf in his role as executor of the estate.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and said they thought  HSBC  shouldve done 
more to be sure it was releasing the funds to the correct representative of the estate. They 
thought HSBC should therefore pay the estate  the equivalent of the amount that was 
incorrectly paid to the third party less the share the third party wouldve received from the 
estate of Mr L1 in line with the valid will.
Mr L2 agreed  with our investigators  view but asked that we also consider compensation for 
the legal costs  the estate  incurred  in pursuing  this matter .
HSBC didnt agree. It said it saw the original documents,  but it was not its responsibility to 
check the validity of them. The third party collected  the funds as the executor of the estate 
and not in the capacity  of a beneficiary.  It was therefore the third partys  responsibility to 
distribute the funds  in accordance with the law. It asked for an Ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85898412The key issue here is whether  HSBC released the funds to someone who was not 
authorised to receive them.  Im not commenting on HSBCs processes - Im simply 
considering whether it made an error when it decided to release the funds  to the third party.  
And based on the information available in this specific complaint, I think it has and this has 
caused a direct loss to Mr L1s estate.
HSBC have provided me with details of the requirements that must be met before it will 
release monies  from the account of a deceased  customer. It says that in this case the 
required documents were  presented and grant of probate was not required due to the value 
of the estate.
Having reviewed the documents presented to HSBC by the third party,  I think HSBC could 
and should have done more to prevent the monies  being released to the wrong person. 
I say this because  the will that was presented to them shows the third party  to be an 
executor, beneficiary  and a witness. Furthermore, the second  witness has provided the 
same address as the first witness. So, I think the person checking the documents should 
have queried the authenticity of the alleged will that was presented to them  on this basis. 
And no monies shouldve  been released until HSBC  was sure the funds were being  given 
to the correct person.
HSBC said it would  not be its responsibility  to check the validity  of the documents provided 
to them  and while I acknowledge  HSBCs procedures, it had a duty of care to protect the 
monies of its deceased customer. So, I think it should have been more cautious  about 
releasing the money. 
HSBC also says that the will is not invalidated by a beneficiary of the will also signing the 
will as a witness - which  is true. However,  it does mean that the gift to the beneficiary within 
the will becomes void and they cant inherit anything from the estate. HSBC said it released 
the funds to the third party as the personal representative for the estate and not in their 
capacity as a beneficiary. However, I think this was enough of a reason for the person 
checking the documents to carry out further  checks due to the lack of impartiality that was 
evident in the alleged  will.
HSBC has said that this is a dispute between the two parties,  but the estate has been 
unable to recover the money  from the other party. So, the estate has directly  lost out on this 
amount as a result  of HSBCs error.  So, I think on a fair and reasonable basis,  HSBC  
should make  a payment to the estate for the amount that was held in the accounts at the 
time of Mr L1s death, less the £5,000 the third party  would have received in line with the 
valid will.
I have also considered Mr L2s request for compensation  in relation to the legal costs 
incurred in pursuing this matter  by the estate.  However, this is not something that I am 
going to ask HSBC to compensate for in this case. 
People  are free to use a solicitor  to complain  to us, but we usually  take the view that 
they dont  need  to. If someone does instruct a solicitor to complain on their behalf, unless 
the particular circumstances  convince us that it was necessary,  then we wont generally 
award them the costs  of doing so, even  if, as here,  were upholding the underlying 
complaint. Ive not seen anything to persuade me that this complaint needed legal 
representation to bring it to us, so I wont be making any award  in this regard.
Ref: DRN85898413My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint. 
To put things right I direct  HSBC UK Bank Plc to; 
Pay £18,998.11 to Mr L1s estate representing the amount paid incorrectly to another 
party.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L2 to accept  or 
reject my decision  on behalf of the estate of Mr L1 before 29 October 2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8589841