K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold her Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI) alongside a mortgage.
For the sake of clarity, Ms Hs PPI policy was part of an overall mortgage protection  package 
called Total Mortgage Protection Policy (TMPP)  and this included life and critical illness 
cover. But this complaint and decision is only about  the PPI element.
background
Briefly:
In 2002 Ms H visited a branch of BoS to effect  the transfer of ownership  of her property and 
existing mortgage  into her sole name  this involved some additional borrowing too. At the 
same time PPI was also taken out to protect  Ms Hs mortgage  payment in the event she 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
The policy cost just under  £15 a month  and provided a monthly benefit of around £245. And 
it would  pay out for up to 24 months  per claim.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  it likely Ms H chose to take 
out PPI and there was nothing to indicate it was wrong of BoS to have recommended she 
take it out.
Later on he said that BoS had subsequently offered to give back  some  of what Ms H paid for 
PPI.
Ms H disagrees with the adjudicators findings about  her mis-sale complaint. She says she 
had good work benefits at the time,  which meant she didnt need PPI so it was wrong for her 
to have been paying for it  particularly  as a single parent.
The complaint therefore comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Ms H didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to take 
it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this.
BoS hasnt got any of the actual PPI paperwork  from the time  and this isnt surprising 
given how long ago things happened. But it has given  us examples of what  was in use at 
the time Ms H took out PPI. And from this I think its clear that a customer had to indicate  
and agree to take out the cover - it wasnt presented  as if it was a condition of the 
borrowing.
Ref: DRN83963652So because Ive not seen enough  to persuade me that something different happened in 
Ms Hs case,  I think its more likely than not she chose  to take out PPI.
BoS recommended the PPI to Ms H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. So I 
dont think it was wrong for BoS to have  recommended it. For example she wasnt 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have 
had a need for the cover. Im mindful  too that Ms H was solely responsible  for the 
mortgage; its recorded on the mortgage application that she had other unsecured  
borrowing at the time;  and she had two dependant children.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. For example,  theres no specific evidence that the significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  were clearly  brought to her attention. But she chose to take it out - so 
it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful for 
her if something went wrong  as I said above  she wasnt  affected  by the significant 
exclusions of cover. At less than £15 a month,  it also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms H has said - including  what  she said about her sick pay and 
the employment benefits she was entitled  to  including insurance through  work if she was ill 
or had an accident.  Ive also seen the evidence shes  provided  about her work benefits.  But 
these points dont  change my decision.
The information Ms H has given us about  her work benefits only go back  to 2012   and this 
is still 10 years after the time in question.  Ms H says that these benefits were  applicable all 
the time she was with her employer. But her employment details  on the mortgage application 
at the time record she was working  for a different company. 
So I dont  think I can fairly and reasonably place much weight on this evidence  as being 
indicative of what Ms H had by way of employment benefits in 2002. In any event, for the 
reasons Ive set out above  including Ms Hs wider circumstances and financial position, the 
fact that the policy  would have helped her protect  her main asset and that it would  have paid 
out for up to 24 months relieving the pressure on any other  means she did have (she could 
use these to meet other ongoing household expenditure)  I dont think  it was wrong for BoS 
to have recommended PPI. I think it was suitable  for her and it would have helped her out 
financially at what would  likely be a difficult time.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Ms 
H paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Ms H back some  of the cost of the PPI. 
I understand BoS has already paid this to Ms H. I dont  think  it needs to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019. 
Ref: DRN83963653Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8396365