K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about outstanding  repairs following a claim made under a building  
warranty with East West Insurance Company Limited.
background
The claim dates back to the mid-2000s and concerns water ingress to the lower  ground floor 
area. Although it wasnt directly damaged by the water,  a paved walkway had to be partly  
taken up in order for the repair  and subsequent  rectification work to be done. In doing that 
some bricks in the walkway were broken and needed replacing.
A complaint about the walkway has arisen because the replacement  bricks dont match  the 
existing ones. East West said it wasnt possible to source matching  bricks and the ones
used were the best match available. It felt the replacement bricks will weather over time and 
that the colour difference will reduce. It said the warranty doesnt  contain a matching items 
clause, so theres no cover for replacing the entire walkway.
Theres also a complaint about an external door, which Mr K said had warped due to being 
exposed to water. East Wests loss adjuster  said the door hadnt  warped. He said the door 
banged on the keep on the slave door as the keep was fixed  in the wrong place. This caused 
the door to bang against the keep and not close properly. Mr K told us the work  
recommended by the loss adjuster has now been  done, but the door is still warped.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined the reasons why I thought  the complaint 
should be upheld.  The relevant parts of my provisional decision are repeated below.
warped door
Although Id seen  pictures of the door and Id read what  had been said regarding the 
damage, it was unclear to me whether the door is warped, what caused it to warp  (given  
what Mr K had said about the recommended  work having been done), whether East 
West is liable  to fix it, what  needs  to be done  to fix it and how much it will cost.
So, I felt there was insufficient evidence to show that East West was liable  to fix any 
problem with the door. But there was little to show that it wasnt  liable either.  So I 
thought the fair, and pragmatic, way forward was for East West to appoint a loss 
adjuster to inspect  the door and report specifically on the points Id made.  Once the loss 
adjuster had completed  their report Mr K and East West  could liaise with each other 
about moving things  forward.
matching bricks
Sometimes  an insurer  cant  replace  an item or part of an item with an exact match  so 
they replace with the nearest equivalent.  A problem then arises because  prior to the 
claim the consumer had a set or items that matched, but after the claim they dont. 
Consumers often  think thats unfair, so they feel their insurer  should cover  the cost of 
replacing the whole set/item. But insurance  policies and warranties generally only pay 
for damaged items  they dont pay for things that arent  damaged. So insurers  think  its 
unfair to expect them to pay for undamaged items that form part of a set.
Ref: DRN80307022Our normal position  is that a compromise is the fair solution to the problem. The 
compromise is generally the insurer paying the consumer compensation to reflect the 
fact theyve  suffered  a loss of match  with the compensation  most often (but not 
always) being 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged  part of the set/item.
It wasnt in dispute that the replacement bricks didnt  match  the existing ones. The issue 
therefore was what East West should  do to rectify matters. As there  was a loss of match  
in this case, I thought the fair resolution  was for the matter to be resolved in line with our 
normal position.  So I thought East West should  compensate  Mr K for the loss of match.
I hadnt been provided with any information  about  the cost of replacing the undamaged 
part of the walkway  in order for there to be a complete  match. So I thought the amount 
East West needed to pay Mr K was d, with d calculated as follows:
oa = the cost of replacing the whole  walkway
ob = the cost of replacing the damaged bricks only
oc = a minus  b
od = 50% of c, divided by 10 (the number of leaseholders).
distress and inconvenience
I didnt think there were  grounds to require East West to pay further  compensation on 
top of what Id already proposed for the mismatched bricks  as what Id proposed 
encompassed any distress or inconvenience due to the loss of match.
However, East West had agreed with our investigator to pay a further £250 
compensation. I concluded  that was fair  albeit that Mr Ks share was £25.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K provided a quote (for £9,100  plus VAT) to repave the whole walkway. He also pointed  
out there were 11 leaseholders  (he was the leaseholder for two flats), so he felt any payment 
needed to be divided by 11 rather than 10. Mr K also said that if it was easier  all the money 
could be paid to the management company.
For the door,  East West was reluctant to send  a further loss adjuster as there  hasnt been 
any further water ingress since its loss adjuster  visited in 2017. It noted  my comment about 
there being no evidence that East West had any liability to repair the doors  based  on what  
had been presented. So it felt responsibility lay with Mr K to prove his claim. It said if Mr K 
got a report which showed the door is warped as a result of failed works East West would 
reimburse the reasonable cost of the report.
For the walkway, East West confirmed  it is prepared to accept 50% of the cost of the quote 
Mr K provided. It noted the proposed calculation was to reduce this by the cost of the bricks 
already replaced   which it couldnt  identify. So it felt, to be pragmatic, it was simpler  to split 
the contribution  equally   with East West paying £4,550 plus VAT. But it said it would 
normally only pay VAT once an invoice for the work is provided, and it wanted  my direction 
on this point.
Ref: DRN80307023my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
warped door
I hear what East West is saying about the evidence so far presented  and it being Mr Ks 
responsibility to prove his claim. But it remains the case that there is little evidence either 
way about what  the current situation  is; and I remain of the view that the most appropriate 
way forward is for a loss adjuster to be appointed  as outlined above.
matching bricks
There are two issues for me to consider here  the number of leaseholders and the actual 
compensation amount.
I was aware prior to issuing my provisional  decision that Mr K was the leaseholder for two of 
the flats. I dont think that means he should  receive  two shares  of any compensation. Thats 
because the compensation is for having  to suffer (or put up with) a loss of match. And I dont 
think Mr Ks suffering doubled just because he had two flats.
Turning to the amount of compensation, as outlined  by East West, Mr Ks quote doesnt 
enable me to calculate d because I still dont know what  b is. However,  simply splitting the 
quote in two as suggested  by East West is a good  compromise  its certainly  not a 
disadvantage to Mr K as the compensation paid to him would inevitably be less if the cost of 
only replacing the damaged bricks  is subtracted  from the quote.
I dont think East Wests comment about  the VAT has any bearing on the payment. Im 
aware that when  settling  a claim for repairs  insurers will often  settle net of VAT initially  and 
then pay the VAT once  repairs  are complete and an invoice is presented. But here East 
West isnt contributing towards  the cost of replacing  the walkway  so that it matches   its 
paying compensation to reflect the loss of match. It might be that Mr K never  pays to repair 
the walkway and he puts up with the loss of match and uses the money for something  else.
So with all the above in mind, I conclude  that fair compensation to be paid to Mr K is £546  
calculated as follows:
£9,100 plus £1,820 (VAT) = £10,920
50% of £10,920  = £5,460
£5,460 divided  by ten leaseholders = £546
distress and inconvenience
Neither party made specific further comments about the compensation, apart  from Mr K 
regarding the number of people it should be split between. Ive already covered this above 
and my comments there apply equally here. So, to confirm, I conclude that East Wests 
agreement to pay total compensation of £250  is fair  with Mr Ks share being £25.
Ref: DRN80307024payment of the money
Ive noted Mr Ks comment about the money  being paid to the management company. I dont 
make any direction in this respect. I leave  it to Mr K to discuss  this directly with East West.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require East West Insurance Company Limited to:
appoint  a loss adjuster  to inspect the door and report on the issues Ive outlined above   
and to then consider  its liability
pay Mr K £546 as compensation  for the loss of match; and
pay Mr K £25 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8030702