K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wrongly  opened a credit card account  for him, 
and later increased the accounts credit limit.
background
Mr R opened a credit card account  with Vanquis  in 2014. Mr R has a number of health 
issues which he doesnt think  Vanquis  properly considered. Had it done so, Mr R doesnt 
think Vanquis wouldve  agreed to open  the account.  For the same  reasons, Mr R doesnt  
think Vanquis shouldve  increased the accounts  credit limit.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She didnt find that Mr R made  
Vanquis aware of his medical conditions when  he applied  for the card.  And even if he had, 
she wasnt persuaded it wouldve been  reasonable for Vanquis  to turn down the application 
on the basis of Mr Rs health.
The adjudicator was also satisfied that Vanquis had properly assessed Mr Rs account 
before increasing  the credit limit. It had also notified Mr R about  the proposed increases.
When Mr R contacted Vanquis in 2017  and 2018 about the financial difficulty he was 
experiencing, the adjudicator was satisfied that the bank responded positively and 
sympathetically to try to help him.
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked  at the information available to Vanquis when  Mr R applied  for his account, I 
think it was reasonable  for the bank  to approve  his credit card application. I havent been  
able to safely conclude  that Vanquis was aware of Mr Rs health conditions  at the time of the 
application.
But even if it had been aware  of those conditions, I still think  it wouldve been  reasonable for 
Vanquis to open  the account. From  the information  Mr R has provided, there was nothing to 
suggest that he wasnt capable of managing his finances when the account was opened.
Vanquis increased the credit limit on Mr Rs account on three occasions. From what  Ive 
seen, Im satisfied that Vanquis properly assessed  Mr Rs circumstances before doing  so, 
and gave him adequate  notice of the proposed increases. So Im not persuaded that the 
increases to the credit limit were  inappropriate.
Mr R contacted Vanquis in December 2017 to tell it he was experiencing financial difficulty.  
That call was disconnected, but Mr R contacted the bank again in April 2018 and an interest-
free repayment plan was agreed. Im satisfied  that the bank acted  positively and 
sympathetically in response to Mr Rs circumstances, and that the repayment plan was an 
appropriate attempt  to help him manage  his finances. 
Ref: DRN86685372Overall, from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that Vanquis has done anything  wrong.  So 
there are no reasonable grounds on which I can uphold Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8668537