K822xcomplaint
Mrs J has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare  Limiteds decision to decline  her claim for 
treatment under her private medical  insurance policy.
background 
In 2014, Mrs J was diagnosed  with a fibroadenoma  (a benign lump) in her breast.
In 2018, Mrs J became  concerned about the lump.  She saw her GP who referred her to a 
breast consultant.  Mrs J contacted AXA PPP and it agreed to authorise the consultation.
Mrs J saw the consultant,  Dr S, who recommended that Mrs J underwent  certain tests. AXA 
PPP agreed to provide  cover for these.
After seeing the test results,  Dr S confirmed  that the lump was still a fibroadenoma though it 
had been growing in size. She recommended that it be removed.
Mrs J sought authorisation for this procedure but AXA PPP refused to provide this. It said the 
lump hadnt  been  causing  Mrs J any problems  and the treatment was preventative.
Mrs J provided  further evidence from Dr S in support of her case  but AXA PPP wasnt 
persuaded to change  its mind. Mrs J therefore had her procedure  carried  out through the 
NHS by another consultant, Dr K. Mrs J referred her complaint to us. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The policy  states  that cover is provided for eligible treatment which  it describes as:
 treatment of a disease,  illness or injury  where  that treatment:
Is of an acute condition
Is conventional  treatment 
Is not preventative
Does not cost more than an equivalent treatment that is at least  as likely to deliver  a 
similar therapeutic or diagnostic outcome
Is not provided or used primarily for the convenience or financial or other  advantage 
of you or your specialist  or other health  professional.
 The policy describes an acute condition as:
a disease, illness or injury that is likely  to respond quickly to treatment that aims  to return  
you to the state  of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, illness or 
injury, or that leads  to your full recovery.
Mrs J was diagnosed  with a fibroadenoma. I consider this to be an acute condition. Dr K 
described it as a recognised pathological condition of the breast. And it was increasing in 
size. Both Dr S and Dr K recommended that the lump be removed and this didnt appear to 
be prompted by any request  from Mrs J. It seems  to me that the consultants  thought the 
procedure was necessary to treat the fibroadenoma.  On the face of it, the treatment  is 
therefore eligible.
Ref: DRN85228022AXA PPP considers that the fibroadenoma wasnt causing Mrs J pain or discomfort. I tend to 
agree with AXA PPP on this point. Mrs J apparently didnt report such symptoms  to her GP 
or to AXA PPP. And although Dr S later provided  a letter stating  that it was causing Mrs J 
pain and discomfort, this was only after AXA PPP had declined  the claim on the basis of a 
lack of such symptoms. But this doesnt mean Mrs J had no symptoms; the lump itself was a 
symptom of her condition. And this is the argument  which AXA PPP could properly put 
forward to exclude  cover if the lump had existed before  Mrs J had taken out her policy. I 
havent seen anything in the policy which says that cover is provided only if the policyholder  
is experiencing pain or discomfort.
Dr S and Dr K have  both denied that the removal was for preventative  purposes. AXA PPP 
now accepts that the procedure  wasnt to prevent the lump turning cancerous. Its therefore 
not clear to me what  it is that AXA PPP is suggesting the procedure  was intended to prevent. 
I can see no reasonable grounds  for AXA PPP refusing to provide  cover.
Mrs J eventually had the lump removed through the NHS as a day-patient but this was about 
three months later than if the procedure had been done privately. I think the delay, along 
with the inability to use a private medical  facility, will have caused a certain amount of worry 
and inconvenience  to Mrs J. I think AXA PPP should pay her £300 compensation for this.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
AXA PPP didnt accept  my provisional decision. It said that the GPs referral  letter  made no 
mention of Mrs J reporting that the lump  had grown  and that Dr S had reported that Mrs J 
hadnt noticed the lump growing since 2014. It accepted that the lump  had grown  1cm since  
it was first diagnosed but said it wasnt possible to tell from the evidence whether it was still 
growing. It maintained that because the lump hadnt yet grown  to a large size and apparently 
wasnt enlarging  rapidly,  the surgery was purely to prevent future  problems. It maintained 
that the lump  was causing no symptoms and the treatment wasnt medically necessary. 
Mrs J was pleased that my decision was in her favour but disappointed that the 
compensation wasnt higher. She explained that having to wait for the operation  on the NHS 
caused her stress and inconvenience, and required her to take more  time off work. She said 
the reason she had private medical  cover was so she could obtain immediate treatment for 
medical problems  such  as this. She felt that AXA PPP had saved money  overall by not 
having to pay for her treatment and she believed the level of compensation it was having  to 
pay wouldnt  deter it from behaving the same  way in future.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not sure what point  AXA PPP is trying  to make when it says that Mrs J hadnt noticed  the 
lump was growing.  The clinical evidence shows that it had grown. Dr S said the enlargement 
was recent.
AXA PPP says that the treatment was to prevent future problems. I think  AXA PPP was 
wrong to rely on the preventative treatment clause in this case.  The condition in question,  
the fibroadenoma, was already present. Two different consultants  had recommended that it 
be removed. There are many examples where  someone might be found  to be suffering from 
Ref: DRN85228023a particular condition,  even though it isnt yet causing pain and discomfort, but where the 
clinical recommendation is that they undergo treatment in view of the risk the condition 
represents. In these circumstances, I dont think it is reasonable for AXA PPP to deny cover  
until the condition  has advanced to a more dangerous stage. And nor do I think  it is 
reasonable for AXA PPP to decline the claim on the basis that the treatment  wasnt  
medically necessary  when this view was at odds with that of two treating consultants.  I 
therefore remain of the view that AXA PPP should have accepted Mrs Js claim.
I acknowledge that Mrs J would have been  very frustrated at being unable to take advantage 
of her policy when she needed  it and that having  to go instead through  the NHS would have 
caused her stress and inconvenience. However,  after taking account of the state of her 
health and the delay  which she had to endure, I am satisfied  that £300  is an appropriate 
level of compensation.  I recognise this is less than the amount  which  AXA PPP would have 
had to pay if it had accepted the claim but this organisations role is simply to resolve  
individual complaints and my award is to compensate Mrs J, not to punish AXA PPP. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited to pay Mrs J £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019. 
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8522802