K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain they were mis-sold a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with a building  society. Acting on advice from L&G they 
re-mortgaged to another lender. They consolidated their unsecured debts and received 
around £6,000  of additional capital. As their previous interest rate product had several  years  
left to run, they paid an early repayment charge (ERC).
Mr and Mrs L are now represented by a claims management company (CMC). The CMC 
says the mortgage was mis-sold. It said Mr and Mrs L had no need  to re-mortgage or pay 
the ERC.  They werent in financial difficulties and didnt need  to consolidate their unsecured 
debt. And it said the fees the broker charged werent fair.
L&G didnt uphold  their complaint about  the suitability of the mortgage,  but offered to refund 
commission the broker had received  from the solicitor it referred them  to, together with £100  
compensation. Our investigator said the complaint should be upheld  because it wasnt 
suitable to recommend consolidating  a loan and the additional capital raised wasnt  
necessary. L&G didnt agree so the case came to me for a decision to be made.  I issued a 
provisional decision setting why I was minded to uphold the complaint, though  in a different 
way. I said:
Based on the fact find taken at the time  which I have no reason to doubt  I do 
think Mr and Mrs L were  experiencing  some  financial difficulty.  Their  outgoings 
exceeded their income each month,  which isnt sustainable. And they had very 
substantial unsecured debts.
Re-mortgaging to consolidate their debts brought their expenditure down, bringing 
their finances under  control. The CMC suggests that they could have been  advised to 
reduce the amounts they were paying to their various credit cards to the minimum 
instead. They could  have done that  but given the size of their borrowings, this 
would have made the credit cards very expensive in terms of overall interest paid and 
meant the balances would have  taken a very long time to pay off. Against that 
background, I dont  think consolidating  them was unsuitable.
I agree  with the investigator that there  wasnt any need to include  the loan too. It had 
a relative short time left to be paid, and consolidating made  it more  expensive. While 
doing so reduced  Mr and Mrs Ls outgoings to the lowest level, I think  they could  
have afforded  to consolidate the credit cards but not the loan  which would still bring 
them down to a manageable level.
Given Mr and Mrs Ls finances  at the time, I think it was reasonable to re-mortgage 
when they did, rather than waiting for the ERC period to end.
I agree  with the investigator that there  doesnt seem to have been any need  to raise 
the additional capital that was paid to Mr and Mrs L. Nothing in the file records  that 
Mr and Mrs L wanted an extra £7,000 or had any need for it. I dont think  increasing 
the mortgage balance by this amount was suitable. However, I dont  agree  with the 
investigator that its fair to expect L&G to pay Mr and Mrs L the interest theyve paid 
Ref: DRN81389862on this borrowing ever since. If they didnt want and had no use for the capital at the 
time, they could have  repaid it to the lender without penalty  and if they didnt, or 
used it for some  other  purpose, then theyve benefitted from having it and not 
mitigated the loss of borrowing it. 
I think L&G has made a fair offer in respect  of the commission. I dont think  it would 
be fair to expect it to refund any of the fees Mr and Mrs L paid to the broker.  I think  
Mr and Mrs L were  made aware  of and agreed  to the fees, and received  the service  
they paid for.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision by the deadline.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further  arguments,  I see no reason to depart from what  I said 
in my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint, and direct Legal  
& General Partnership Services Limited  to:
Calculate the amount  Mr and Mrs L have paid as part of the mortgage in respect of the 
consolidated loan to date;
Calculate how much  of the consolidated loan remains  on the mortgage balance;
Calculate how much  it would have  cost Mr and Mrs L to repay the loan if it hadnt been  
consolidated;
Add together the first two figures,  take away the third, and pay the result  to 
Mr and Mrs L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Simon Pugh  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8138986