K821x#15summary of complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Interactive Investor Trading Limited. Hes unhappy about the 
length of time it took to complete the transfer  of his pension.  He wants  to be compensated 
for the loss of growth.
background to complaint
Mr L received a cash equivalent transfer  value (CETV) of over £375,000 from his pension  
scheme administrators in June 2017.  He wanted to transfer his pension  to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  with Interactive  Investor.  He began the transfer  process but the 
transfer was not completed until 25 January 2018  (although the same CETV was paid 
outside of the initial  three  month  guarantee period).
Mr L complained that Interactive Investor, who he was transferring his pension  to, had taken 
too long to complete the transfer and caused  unnecessary delays. Interactive Investor 
partially upheld  Mr Ls complaint.  They  accepted that they were partly  to blame for the 
delays that had occurred but said that the pension administrators  were also to blame. 
Interactive Investor  offered Mr L a total of £100  for the distress  and inconvenience this 
matter had caused him. However, Mr L felt he had suffered a greater  financial  loss. He felt 
he lost out on growth  on his pension fund as it should have been invested sooner had the 
transfer been dealt with more efficiently.
Mr L was also unhappy that Interactive Investor removed a portfolio  from their platform as he 
intended to invest  in that specific  portfolio. He also said that he was unhappy as Interactive 
Investor had lost secure messages  where  he had discussed the pension transfer with them
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. Interactive 
Investor had admitted they were  partially  responsible for delays between  7 October 2017 
and 16 November 2017  which was a period  of almost six weeks. This was due to the 
personal pension  scheme  transfer declaration form not being  completed in a timely manner. 
The adjudicator felt Interactive Investor  should  have completed the required form sooner  
which would have reduced the delays.
The adjudicator went on to consider whether Mr L had suffered any investment losses. He 
noted that Mr L had wanted to transfer the money  to Interactive Investor as cash and had not 
given them any instruction in terms of how he wanted to invest  the monies.  Further,  as 
Mr Ls money remained as cash even after the transfer had been  completed on 25 January 
2018, the adjudicator didnt feel that Interactive  Investor  should  compensate  for any loss of 
growth as the money had not been  invested.  In relation to the removal  of the portfolio, the 
adjudicator felt it was up to Interactive  Investor to decide what portfolios and funds they 
offered and therefore not a complaint point he could  investigate further.
The adjudicator said that Interactive Investor should  pay Mr L £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delays.
Interactive Investor  did not agree. They said that they were willing to increase their offer from 
£100 to £150 for the distress and inconvenience  caused but no more. 
Mr L did not agree with the adjudicator either.  He accepted that Interactive  Investor  had paid 
the advisers fee, but it had been slow to do that. He also felt that Interactive Investor should 
compensate him for the loss of growth, which he feels  is far greater than £300. The fact he 
Ref: DRN87995642didnt invest wasnt relevant. The market saw a period of instability as he received the funds. 
He also said that he should have been told that the portfolio was no longer going to be 
available. The transfer had taken twenty weeks when  Interactive Investor  advertised  that it 
should take six to eight  weeks.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator 
and for essentially the same reasons.  I uphold this complaint. But I think the award the 
adjudicator proposed, of £300, is fair and I dont make any additional  award.
There is no set time for a transfer like this to be completed. CETVs are generally 
guaranteed for three months which gives some indication of expectations. This transfer 
clearly took longer than that.
There were three different parties  involved in the transfer, the pension administrators, 
Interactive Investor, and Mr Ls financial advisers.  There were delays, and there was a 
specific delay when  Interactive Investors failed to complete  and return the papers necessary 
for completion of the transfer. But I agree with the adjudicator that Interactive Investor wasnt 
solely responsible  for the delay that occurred in the transfer overall. Its accepted a delay of 
around six weeks due to its failures  and I agree that this appears to be a reasonable 
assessment. It wasnt managing the transfer,  Mr Ls advisers were.
Mr L says that he should  be compensated for the loss of potential growth on his pension 
funds over the period of delay. Mr L didnt  invest when  he could after the transfer was 
completed and the funds  were left in cash.  Mr L says that his chosen portfolio wasnt 
available when he did receive the funds  and that there was also a period of instability in the 
market. Mr L sent evidence of the fluctuation in the FTSE  100 around this time. 
I agree  with the adjudicator on this point. The evidence  is that Mr L didnt invest as soon as 
he had the opportunity to do so when the transfer  was complete. So I dont think it would be 
reasonable to conclude  that he would have invested immediately had the funds  been  
received sooner. And the evidence of the FTSE 100 that Mr L provided in response  to the 
view suggests that the market was falling from January 2018, and doesnt appear to fully 
support his view that he would  have been better off if he had invested  six weeks  earlier.
Its unfortunate that the portfolio Mr L had selected  wasnt available to him. But as the 
adjudicator has said,  the portfolios that were or werent available in the SIPP was a matter  
for Interactive Investor and a commercial decision for it to take.
However, Im satisfied that Interactive Investors handling of the transfer will have caused 
Mr L a degree of distress  and inconvenience.  This was a substantial  transfer fund,  over 
£370,000. It was clearly  very important to complete this efficiently and in a reasonable time. 
The unnecessary delay obviously caused  Mr L a significant amount of frustration which is 
entirely understandable. I think the award  of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN87995643my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Interactive Investor  Trading Limited must pay Mr L £300 in total for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  I understand  £50 has already been paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8799564