K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a car he has on finance  with RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI) was 
not of satisfactory  quality.  
background
Mr C took receipt of a used vehicle in November 2015. The car was a year old and had 
completed 8,000 miles at this point. Mr C financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement with RCI. 
In April 2018 he contacted RCI and explained  the car had a problem with the power steering 
which needed replacing at a cost of £1,200. His warranty had ran out so he asked RCI to 
contribute to the cost of the repair as he said the power steering shouldnt  have failed so 
soon. But when they declined he referred  his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  think RCI needed to take any further action. He considered  a TV 
report Mr C had directed him to about similar  faults  with power steering on the same model 
but he explained that this report  only covered  models up to 2010 and, as Mr Cs car was 
newer than that, he didnt  think the reports findings were relevant. He realised  that the 
power steering  had failed at only 40,000 miles but he didnt think  it would be reasonable to 
suggest this meant the car hadnt  been of satisfactory quality. 
But Mr C disagreed and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C but I agree with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then RCI are responsible 
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
But RCIs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
And here I think its most  likely the problem with the power steering developed at some  point 
after Mr C took receipt  of the car. I say that because Mr C has driven  over 30,000  miles in 
the car since  he first collected it and I think its likely he would have complained  within that 
Ref: DRN86578862time if the steering was becoming heavier and the power steering was therefore  showing 
signs of failure.
I can see that the TV programme Mr C referred  the adjudicator to considered vehicles made 
between 2003  and 2010 and as Mr Cs car was made later than that I cant consider  the 
programmes findings of evidence there were manufacturing faults with his vehicle.
But when we think about whether a car is of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  the 
relevant legislation says that we also need to consider whether it has proven to be suitably 
durable. I can understand that a consumer  wouldnt want the power steering to fail so soon 
but Im not persuaded thats evidence the car wasnt durable enough. The car was four years 
old when it failed and had covered about  40,000 miles and Im persuaded that this is towards  
the lower end of the failure range rather than demonstrably  unsatisfactory and not sufficiently 
durable.
So I dont  think RCI have  been unreasonable here and Im not asking them  to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8657886