K820x#14Complaint
Mr B through his representative  independent financial adviser (IFA)  has complained about 
the communications Aviva Life & Pensions  UK limited sent him in relation to the values of his 
personal pension  plans. 
Background
In September  2018 Mr B requested the values of his personal pension plans through  his IFA 
in readiness for his retirement. In October 2018 Aviva  sent through  the necessary  paperwork  
providing all the fund values required. However, it did this for six plans when Mr B only held 
five plans with it. The incorrect  sixth plan was a group plan which  was made  up of the five 
separate plan numbers  that he held, combined.  However, this wasnt  made clear so upon 
receipt of the information Mr B was under  the impression that he was due to receive two 
payments of just under  £40,000  each upon his retirement.
The mistake  only came to light when Mr Bs new pension provider requested the funds 
transfer for drawdown  after the monies were paid in December 2018.
Aviva upheld the complaint and accepted the information that was sent to the IFA should 
have been clearer.  However, because Mr B hadnt incurred any actual financial loss and only 
a loss of expectation it offered to pay Mr B £350 in recognition of this. The IFA didnt accept 
this offer and in response to his arguments  Aviva  agreed to pay a further £400. This was for 
expenses Mr B had incurred in relation to the IFA. The IFA, however, passed this amount to 
Mr B as a gesture of goodwill. So, in total Mr B was paid £750 by Aviva  for the error it had 
made.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. He acknowledged the mistake  that had occurred and that it was down to errors on 
Avivas part however he didnt feel that Mr B had suffered  any actual loss therefore payment 
in recognition of the error was sufficient and given Aviva had paid £750  he didnt feel it 
should have to pay anything further.
The IFA on Mr Bs behalf didnt agree with the assessment. He felt that regardless of Mr B 
not suffering any loss his loss of expectation  had not been fully recognised.  He also 
compared the situation Mr B was in to a historical  issue the industry  faced where consumers 
were compensated for plans that failed to meet with their expectations,  even though no 
money had been  lost.
While the investigator considered the comments the IFA made  he wasnt  persuaded to 
change his initial outcome. So as no agreement  could be made,  the complaint has been 
passed to me to review for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, in relation to what the IFA has said about a previous  issue the industry  faced, the IFA 
should know that this service  deals with each complaint  on its own, merits. The IFA should 
also know the specifics of this complaint are very different to those he has compared it to.
Ref: DRN89510332There is no argument from either party that Aviva  made a mistake in relation to the 
information it provided Mr Bs IFA with. So, the question for me to consider is whether the 
amount Aviva has paid to Mr B is fully representative of the effect this error  has had on him.
Whilst I appreciate how disappointing  it would have  been for Mr B to find out that his 
retirement fund had effectively halved,  I am satisfied  that Mr Bs loss is only one of 
expectation. I havent seen anything to confirm that Mr B had relied on the incorrect  amount 
or that he had started to pay off debts/liabilities or had purchased items before he had 
received the monies in anticipation  of receiving the higher incorrect  value. I am also satisfied 
that there  was a relatively short amount of time between receiving the quotes, being  paid the 
monies and the mistake  being identified So I dont think  Mr B had enough time to put any 
plans into effect.  So, given this and the fact that he was only ever entitled  to the sum of just 
under £40,000 rather  than the sum of nearly £80,000, as he had initially  thought, I really 
cant see that he has suffered any financial loss.
The mistake  Aviva made, whilst frustrating, was caused by a clerical  error. Obviously this 
shouldnt have happened but all I can do is look at the effect of that error rather  than impose  
a punitive award  on Aviva. And in this case fortunately the effect  of its mistake is limited to 
causing disappointment to Mr B.
So in my view while Aviva made a mistake, I am please it has acknowledged  this before the 
intervention of this Service. And I am satisfied that the amount it agreed to pay to Mr B in 
recognition of this is fully representative of the disappointment he has felt.
I also think its reasonable that Mr Bs IFA should have had an idea of what  Mr B would have  
been receiving  upon retirement and would have been in a position to check the values of the 
quoted sums  before  helping Mr B with any future financial planning.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8951033