K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs G says MBNA Limited mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
MBNA has told us Mrs G claimed on the PPI policy in 2001.  It says the amount paid to her 
for the claim is worth more than the refund  Mrs G would be due if her complaint were upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The PPI was added when Mrs G took her credit  card. MBNA thinks the card and policy  were  
sold by post. Mrs G says the card was offered to her in a phone call. She says there was no 
mention of PPI and she says she was never told PPI had been added  to her card. 
But Mrs Gs credit card application form says to complete  and post the form to MBNA to 
apply. So I think this is how Mrs G applied. Also, the form has a separate PPI section. This 
says the PPI is accident, sickness and unemployment protection for the card payments. It 
also says the PPI cost 68p per £100 of the statement balance  and it had equally noticeable  
boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the PPI. On Mrs Gs form, which  she signed to take 
the card, the yes box is ticked  and I think it likely she wouldve known the no box should  
be ticked instead if she didnt want the cover.
With the above in mind,  I think MBNA  made it clear Mrs G didnt have to take the PPI and 
she chose to take it. But I can understand why she might not remember  this now, given how 
long ago she applied  for the credit card.
MBNA and Mrs G agree MBNA didnt provide advice during the sale.  So MBNA didnt 
recommend the PPI to Mrs G and didnt have to check the PPI was right for her. But MBNA 
did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide  about the PPI.
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take the cover  so it looks to me like she wanted  this type of 
cover at the time. 
Also, from what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time, Mrs G wasnt affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the cover   so it wouldve been useful for her if something went 
wrong. Shed received a significant financial benefit from it by the end of the claim she made.
Also, Mrs G has told us she didnt miss any card payments. Shes  told us she struggled with 
the payments,  and I take this into account.  I also take into account  that, from what shes  told 
us, Mrs G was entitled to no more than statutory sick pay and didnt have savings or 
anything else to help pay her card if she lost her job or was too sick to work. 
Ref: DRN88927902Taking everything into account,  including all she has said about the affordability of the cover 
and her financial circumstances at the time she chose to take it, on balance  Im not 
persuaded better information about the PPI wouldve  put Mrs G off taking the cover.
What Ive said above means MBNA  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs G. But MBNA has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because:
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mrs Gs points, including what shes said about having been  in her job 
for less than six months. But from what Ive seen of the policy  terms at the time, Mrs G didnt 
need six months service  to make a claim. So, for this reason and those  Ive already given, 
these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs G.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8892790