K821x#15Complaint
Mrs M says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about one running  account credit  facility  and twenty-six  high-cost short  
term credit  instalment loans that Sunny provided  to Mrs M between  March 2014 and 
June 2018. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ms complaint and thought that she shouldnt  have been 
provided with any further credit after the thirteenth drawdown on the running  account facility. 
Sunny didnt agree in full. So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs M, I think that Sunny should  
reasonably have seen that Mrs M was unlikely to have been able to make her payments in a 
sustainable manner  when it provided Mrs M with her fourteenth drawdown on her running 
credit facility in October 2014. 
Ref: DRN86733782I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that use of her 
running account facility  suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of her clearing the 
balance within a reasonable  period of time.  And it also ought to have been apparent  from her 
repayment history, which Sunny ought  to have been monitoring that Mrs M may well have 
been relying on the facility and borrowing further  to make her payments. 
Sunny then transitioned Mrs M from a facility  which  its own product literature said shouldnt  
be used for extended  periods to a series of instalment loans which  had the same effect.   
Mrs M then exhibited  a borrowing pattern of taking out further loans not too long after 
repaying previous  ones.  
Sunny continued  lending  to Mrs M even when this pattern was repeated  and in 
circumstances where  it ought reasonably to have  realised  that any further loans  were  more 
likely than not unsustainable for her. 
Mrs M had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny shouldnt have provided  her 
with. So I think that she lost out and Sunny should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs M paid on all credit advanced from the fourteenth 
drawdown on the running account facility onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to instalment loans 1 to 26 should  be removed from Mrs Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mrs M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8673378