K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained that she was given misleading information  by Santander UK Plc 
about the date when  an early repayment charge (ERC) on her mortgage would end. As a 
result, she redeemed her mortgage during the period when the ERC applied and had to pay 
an additional  £6,700, which she would like Santander to reimburse.
background
Miss W had a mortgage with Santander which was subject to an ERC which  expired  on 
3 May 2019.  In March 2019 Miss W decided to remortgage.  On doing so, she found she was 
subject to an ERC of just over £6,700.
Miss W complained to Santander. She said her annual mortgage statement had referred to 
the ERC  expiring on 2 March 2019.  Santander said that this applied to the Mortgage Benefit 
Package Miss W had received (for example  a cashback) and not to the mortgage itself.  The 
ERC for the mortgage was on the second  page  of the statement and clearly showed the 
expiry date of 3 May 2019. Santander acknowledged the statement could have been clearer 
but it didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss W complained to us. An investigator  looked at the complaint but didnt think  it should be 
upheld. Miss W asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
First, I dont have any power  to tell Santander how to set its mortgage  statements out. They 
are in the format  prescribed by the regulator.
I accept that the reference to an ERC on the Mortgage Benefit Package  might have misled 
Miss W into thinking that this was the date of the ERC for the mortgage. But Im satisfied that 
the statement  sets out on the second  page  the full amount of the ERC payable  if the 
mortgage was to be redeemed before 3 May 2019.
The redemption statement was sent to Miss Ws solicitors on 15 March  2019, a week  before 
completion. It showed the ERC of £6,710.45 to be paid. In the circumstances, Im satisfied 
that Miss W and her solicitors  were made  aware  of the charge before completion of the new 
mortgage a week  later. Given this, Im satisfied Miss W had the option  of deferring the 
completion of her new mortgage  until after the ERC had expired. 
If Miss Ws solicitors didnt draw her attention to the ERC before completing  her new 
mortgage, thats something Miss W will need  to take up with them.
my final decision
I know Miss W will be disappointed, but my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
Ref: DRN86110482ombudsman
Ref: DRN8611048