K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold in 1998 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France  IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing  
else has changed. 
AXA France  IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility  for this sale.  So, to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when  Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA.  
Mrs L says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 4 March 2020, a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 18 March 2020, although the accompanying letters  stated we 
wanted a response  by 4 April 2020. In any event, we have heard from Mrs Ls 
representatives who said they received my provisional decision and they had no further 
submissions to make in the case.  So I am proceeding to my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ls case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most likely  given the available  
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend to uphold 
Mrs Ls complaint. I explain why below.
I think its likely AXA made it clear  Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand  why she cant remember  this over 21 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store  card. To get the 
PPI, Mrs L had to tick a box for it. The box is ticked and Mrs L has signed the form at the 
Ref: DRN89432262bottom, which most  likely denotes her agreement with the forms contents.  So, it seems most  
likely that Mrs L would  have been given a choice about taking the policy. Ive noted that 
theres no language on any documentary evidence  that suggests the credit is dependent  on 
taking out PPI.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure she got the information  she needed so she could decide if it was right 
for her.
The information AXA gave  Mrs L about  the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I think its likely Mrs L would have  had some understanding  that it would pay a 
benefit if she wasnt able to work because she was sick or became unemployed. And as I 
think Mrs L chose to take out the PPI, it seems  like she was interested  in this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time it seems that she was eligible 
for the cover this policy  could provide and it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been  useful for her if something 
went wrong. I say that whilst noting  Mrs L told us she had a condition  from the age of 5. But 
whilst you had to be off work sick for 30 days before you could claim benefit under this 
policy, Mrs L has told us that she cant recall ever needing to take a single  day off work  for 
that condition  during  the time she had the condition.  So, thinking  about all the details of this 
particular case,  I dont think that better information  about the exclusions in respect of pre-
existing medical conditions would have put her off the policy, most  likely. 
And it appears that Mrs L would have benefitted from the cover.  I say this because  Mrs L 
told us that she had no sick pay or any other  means she could rely on if Mrs L was too ill to 
work, or if she lost her job. So, I think the PPI could be useful for her.
So, having  considered everything, I dont think  better information about the PPI would  have 
put Mrs L off taking out the cover. And I dont think that Mrs L lost out as a result of anything  
AXA might have done wrong. 
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so I do not uphold Mrs Ls complaint against AXA France  IARD.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  2 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8943226