K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited  (Old  Mutual ) has failed to 
consider a claim under her critical illness policy. 
To resolve  her complaint  she wants Old Mutual  to assess  her claim for total and permanent  
disability (TPD) benefit as it should  have done  in 2015, and backdate a claim payment.  
background
Mrs B took out a Skandia  Protect policy which began in December 2003.  The policy was 
sought through a third party financial adviser.  It offered critical illness  cover  and additional 
premium protection  (PPB ) and TPD benefits which were both based on activities of daily 
work. The policy had a £60,000  level sum assured for a 14-year term. The operation of the 
policy was later taken over by Old Mutual.
Mrs B suffers from disabling conditions  including osteoarthritis. Mrs B says these conditions 
impact her ability to walk, lift, climb and bend. 
In September  2015, Mrs B contacted Old Mutual  as her health  had declined.  That year, she 
had to stop working because of the extent of her disabilities. She completed a claim form 
and returned this to Old Mutual the following  month.
In January 2016, Old Mutual told Mrs B that it was not willing  to accept a claim for PPB. The 
claim for PPB required Mrs B to be unable to perform  three  or more  activities  of daily work 
and the information from the GP had not shown Mrs B as being  unable to perform three or 
more activities. 
Mrs Bs nephew  assisted her in appealing the decision. He asked that Mrs Bs current  GP 
was consulted along with an independent  medical  examiner. The report  Old Mutual  had 
obtained previously  was from Mrs Bs former GP. 
Following receipt of a report from the IME confirming Mrs B couldnt  undertake  four of the 
eight tasks, Old Mutual agreed to pay the PPB effective  November  2016.  The PPB claim 
was maintained until the policy expired on 30 November 2017. Old Mutual returned the 
premiums Mrs B had paid from April 2016  to October 2016  since the medical evidence was 
given in April 2016. 
In 2018, Mrs B made a complaint to Old Mutual with the help of her nephew. She said that a 
claim for TPD used the same criteria as a PPB claim yet Old Mutual had only assessed  her 
for the latter. 
In September  2018, Old Mutual rejected the complaint. It said a TPD claim was different and 
it has discounted that claim because there were treatment options  open to Mrs B in 2015  so 
her conditions couldnt have been considered  permanent.  It also felt the medical evidence 
didnt show that Mrs B had significant disabilities at the time.   
Mrs B brought a complaint to this service in early 2019. She explained how she was 
suffering emotionally  and financially because  it had never considered if she could have 
made a TPD claim. If this had been assessed and paid several years before, shed have 
been able to afford to make changes to help her living  situation.   
Ref: DRN81394522Old Mutual said it had considered a claim for TPD at the time of the appeal in 2016, despite 
Mrs B not pursuing a claim for it. But it felt a claim was not met, because it believed  the 
impairments Mrs B had did not permanently prevent her from completing  the listed activities  
of daily work. 
It also noted that Mrs B reached the maximum age limit for a TPD claim in accordance  with 
the policy terms in February 2017.  
Finally, Old Mutual said it had recently  passed the matter to its Chief  Medical  Officer  for 
further comment. He had made several additional points:
Mrs B had not been through pain management or addressed the physiological impact 
of her pain;
weight loss had not been explored  other than to conclude Mrs B wasnt  a suitable  
candidate for bariatric surgery;
but it is medically accepted that weight  loss can ease conditions  concerning joints  
and mobility;
there is marked discrepancy between the very mild radiological  findings  (which could 
be expected in a person of Mrs Bs age) and her expressed levels of pain and 
disability;
there are discrepancies between medical evidence from 2016 and 2017  which  
suggests Mrs B had fluctuating pain  and therefore the disability wasnt total or 
permanent.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators and he felt it should succeed. 
The investigator said he had reviewed the evidence  from the time of the claim in 2015, and 
he felt that Old Mutual had never  explored  whether Mrs Bs circumstances could have met a 
TPD claim, only a PPB claim.  He said that Old Mutual ought to consider that claim now.  He 
also thought it should pay Mrs B £500 for the considerable upset caused by the inability to 
assess her circumstances  and the complications  of now having  to conduct a claim 
retrospectively.Mrs B didnt make any additional  comments. 
Old Mutual disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed  to an ombudsman.  It said:
it did consider a TPD claim after Mrs Bs nephew  appealed the decision;
it told Mrs B she didnt  meet  the claim in a final outcome letter in July 2017;
at no point before the benefit expired has permanent disability been proven and 
therefore it was not possible  to accept  a TPD claim;
it accepts that the initial claims notification call didnt make  any reference to TPD but 
it put matters right following the appeal;
that Mrs B was deemed unable to complete four tasks for a PPB is not relevant for a 
TPD claim as the measures are different.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator though  my reasoning is slightly different.  
Ref: DRN81394523Old Mutual has correctly pointed out that the two policy  definitions  are different. Both require 
disability to be proven  by Mrs B being  unable  (and in the case  of PPB because of accident or 
illness) to perform at least three of a list of eight activities of daily work. However, the TPD 
definition goes further than the PPB. Both require a policyholder to be totally  unable  to do 
the tasks accounting for any special aids, but the TPD definition  sets out that the inability 
must be permanent.
When the PPB claim was accepted, the medical report  confirmed Mrs B could not complete 
the bending, climbing, walking and lifting tasks. 
I dont doubt that Old Mutual feels that distinction  justifies its later actions. But like our 
investigator, I do not believe  it has done  enough  to establish whether Mrs Bs circumstances 
met a claim at any time before the TPD benefit  ended in February 2017.  
I appreciate when Mrs Bs daughter first helped her place a claim call, TPD wasnt 
mentioned and PPB was. But Old Mutual was in the position of having the knowledge as to 
how critical illness claims work, not Mrs B or her family members  that help her communicate 
with Old Mutual. It is a reasonable expectation  that when a policyholder  explains his or her 
poor health that the insurer assists that policyholder to establish if there is a potential  claim 
on the policy.  
That did not happen. On 15 October, and again  on 3 December 2015  Old Mutual wrote to 
Mrs Bs GP confirming that [it] understand[s] that Mrs B is under your care for osteoarthritis. 
As a result of the subsequent disablement Mrs B is claiming under the Premium Protection 
provisions of the above plan. 
When the IME was appointed  to provide his report,  he confirmed that the purpose of his 
assessment was to determine whether Mrs B fulfils the criteria for PPB under her policy. 
It was only when Mrs Bs nephew contacted Old Mutual in April 2016 that it acknowledged  it 
had not considered a TPD claim.  It said:
Mrs B has received our letter re PPB being agreed. We have  not referred to TPD 
benefit. I advised him that we have  never  been  asked  to consider TPD and this is 
why we haven't referred to it. However, it is something that we consider as part of the 
claim, but as treatment  recommendations have been suggested, we cannot  consider 
her condition to be of a permanent  and irreversible  nature  and could not agree a TPD 
claim.
This was further added to by a letter to Mrs B of 3 May 2016  that said:
As there have been treatment options suggested, we are unable  to consider the total 
permanent disability benefit at present as we cannot consider your condition  to be of 
a permanent and irreversible nature.
Further brief correspondence did take place to and from Mrs Bs new GP before Old Mutual  
gave its ultimate claims decision of July 2017  reiterating that it could  not accept a TPD claim 
because it had cause  to question whether any open treatment option could prevent her 
inability to perform three or more tasks  permanently.  
Old Mutual should  not have waited until Mrs Bs appeal  to have determined if Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN81394524circumstances satisfied  a TPD claim or not. It knew she had given up work,  and it knew she 
was being assessed against activities of daily work  for the purposes of the PPB claim. While 
the definitions  differ, theyre sufficiently similar  that Id expect an insurer  to have told a 
policyholder of his or her right to pursue that claim as well.  
putting things right
Like our investigator,  I believe  Old Mutual  failed to undertake a fair claims assessment. I do 
not believe that writing  to Mrs Bs new GP was sufficient. It ought to have  sought  further  
evidence by seeking an independent  medical examination in the same way it did for the PPB 
claim. Given the examiner  was familiar  with Mrs Bs position, it would not have been a 
particular difficulty to have  a further report prepared  on this basis  but it did not do so. I do not 
believe it is acceptable to Old Mutual  to draw conclusions from the report  that was solely  
drawn up for the PPB claim  as confirmed by the IME. The fairer approach was for the 
examiner to assess the same facts  against  the TPD definition  as well.  
It follows that I agree with our investigator that there has been failings in the claims process 
here and an award  of £500 compensation for those failings ought  to be paid to Mrs B for the 
upset she says she has been caused.   
I believe a complete retrospective claims assessment ought to be made now,  as to whether 
a claim for TPD could have been  met by Mrs B at any time before 15 February  2017.  It is 
unclear if the same  examiner is still available or whether Mrs B would  wish to have the same 
examiner now. On that basis, I believe the fair approach is to allow  Mrs B to select an 
examiner from a choice  of three suitably qualified IMEs.  Further,  if Mrs B has any other 
relevant evidence or specialists that have  since provided assessments and are able to give 
an assessment for the relevant period then she should notify Old Mutual of this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
I direct  Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance  Limited  to assess  a TPD claim for Mrs B, seeking 
an IME and allowing her the choice of one of (at least)  three  examiners. It should then 
provide her with a claims outcome  decision.  
In addition, it should pay Mrs B £500  for the distress she has been caused by the 
mishandling of her claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020. 
 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8139452