K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Ms F complained about  ERGO  Reiseversicherung AGs (ERGO) decision to 
decline a claim for a lost bag under  their travel insurance policy. 
background
In May 2019, Mr W and Ms F travelled home  from holiday. The next day they realised a 
carry-on bag was missing, which contained  a drone, goggles, a controller, money and 
clothing. 
They said they couldnt determine  exactly where  they had lost the bag, so they contacted the 
airport and the bus company,  but werent able to recover the bag from lost property. So they 
submitted a claim to ERGO for the bag and its contents. 
ERGO assessed the claim but didnt agree to pay it. It said that they had left the bag 
unattended in a public place which is excluded from the policy.  
Mr W and Ms F complained about  its decision to reject the claim and requested it to be 
reviewed. But ERGO  wrote to them later in May 2019 to maintain its decision to reject the 
claim on the basis that it had been  unattended and they didnt take reasonable care to 
mitigate the risk of losing it. 
Mr W and Ms F complained about  its decision. They said the exclusion it relied  on was unfair 
and considered it should pay the claim. Mr W also complained about the time it took ERGO  
to assess the claim. So they brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into everything  but didnt think  it should be upheld.  She didnt think  
ERGO could  fairly rely on the fact that they had left the bag unattended  in a public place.  But 
she did agree that Ms F hadnt  taken reasonable care of the bag. She also considered 
whether any unnecessary delays occurred during the time ERGO considered the claim  but 
didnt think it had.  
ERGO agreed with our investigator, but Mr W and Ms F didnt. They  said they had taken  
reasonable care of the bag. And Ms F had taken tablets for a condition affected by flying.  
They said this had caused drowsiness and affected  her ability  to take reasonable care of the 
bag. They maintained that they took reasonable care of the bag and said that ERGO should 
accept the claim and pay them £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
As Mr W and Ms F disagreed, the case  has been  passed to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mr W and Ms F, I wont be upholding their complaint. I will explain why. 
ERGO considered the claim but declined it because the policy  states that Any loss of 
unattended items left in a public place or at Your lodgings unless in securely locked Private  
Accommodation or unattended  vehicles  unless all items  are kept out of sight  in a locked 
glove or boot compartment and the vehicle shows signs  of forced entry is excluded. 
Ref: DRN86718992I dont think ERGO has shown that the bag was left unattended  in a public place which 
resulted in the claim being made. And so I dont think its fair for ERGO to rely on this 
exclusion based on this. This is because they dont know where the bag was left which lead 
to the loss. 
ERGO reconsidered the claim  and said it didnt think they had taken reasonable care of the 
bag. I have looked at the term reasonable care in the policy. It says that You are required to 
take all reasonable care to protect  Yourself and Your  property  and to act as though You are 
not insured. This term is common across most insurers  and can be found  in the policy  under 
Important notes on page five. 
Mr W and Ms F said they dont know where they lost the bag. They  said it could have been 
lost at any stage  of their journey home. They said their journey consisted of several  different 
transport means. 
They didnt notice  until the day after they got home  from holiday that the bag was missing. 
Given the high value of the contents  of the bag I dont think they have demonstrated they 
took reasonable care of the bag  which is backed up by the fact that they cannot recollect 
where the bag was lost. 
Additionally, Mr W argued Ms F had taken medication which  had caused her to feel drowsy. I 
dont think Mr W took reasonable care by leaving the bag with Ms F if she had been feeling  
drowsy from taking tablets, and therefore unable to protect the property from loss or theft. 
Both Mr W and Ms F had a duty to take reasonable care of the bag during their journey, 
particularly given the high value of the contents.  
So Im not in agreement with them that ERGO applied the reasonable care term unfairly to 
decline their claim. So I dont think it needs to cover any of the items they have listed  as 
being inside  the bag when  it was lost. 
Mr W and Ms F also complained about the amount of time it took for ERGO  to assess their 
claim. But I dont find an unreasonable delay occurred. The claim was made by them  in 
May 2019 and it responded  with its decision 13 days  later.  I dont think  that this is an 
unreasonable time given it was required to review  the documents  they submitted before 
making a decision.  
There was a bank  holiday during  the time they submitted their documents to support their 
claim. This means those documents would have  been somewhat  delayed in getting  to 
ERGO. But in any event I dont think 13 days from the claim being made, to ERGO giving 
them its decision is unreasonable.   
Mr W and Ms F also complained about the time taken by ERGO to respond to their further  
concerns. Again, Im satisfied a final response was issued in a timely manner. Overall I dont 
find there were any unreasonable delays in ERGOs dealings with Mr W and Ms F. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 January 2020.
Ref: DRN86718993Liam Hickey 
Ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN8671899