K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited hasnt delivered her replacement  
mobile phone to her.
background
In June 2018 Ms L put in a claim under her mobile  phone insurance with Assurant. It asked 
her to send  her faulty phone to it and accepted her claim. Following this Assurant agreed to 
send her a replacement phone, which it arranged to be delivered  on 30 June 2018.
In early July 2018,  Ms L contacted Assurant to get an update  on the replacement  phone. 
Assurant informed her that the phone had been delivered to the concierge  at her specified  
address. Ms L said she didnt think the building had a concierge, but that she would look into 
this. She then contacted Assurant again  to say there wasnt a concierge, so it began an 
investigation into where the phone  was, which included contacting the delivery company 
(D). Following this investigation  D returned to where the phone had been delivered  on 
27 July 2018.  Ds records say that it collected the parcel  from the concierge and delivered  it 
to Ms L, with the parcel  being signed for in her first name. So Assurant was satisfied the 
phone had been correctly delivered.
Ms L made a formal  complaint to Assurant. She was unhappy with how long the 
investigation had taken and was adamant she still hadnt received the phone. Assurant  
explained why the process  had taken the time it had and said it was satisfied the phone had 
been successfully  delivered. Ms L didnt agree, so asked us to look into the delivery of the 
phone. Our investigator thought it had been delivered correctly, so Ms L asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the case.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2018. I didnt consider that 
Ms L had received her replacement phone.
I said the information Id seen didnt  suggest Ms Ls delivery address did have a concierge. 
And the GPS location for D showed  it outside another  block  of flats which did have a 
concierge, rather than outside the correct delivery  address. So I thought it was possible the 
parcel had been  incorrectly  delivered  to this building instead. Assurant accepted this, but it 
considered that the parcel was then correctly delivered in July 2018.
I didnt agree. I noted that the delivery  notes didnt  go into detail about what  happened when 
D collected the parcel  i.e. we didnt  know if it was delivered it to a flat in the building  with 
the concierge or another  building. Assurant determined that its most likely it went  on to 
deliver the phone  in the correct (different) building as evidenced by the parcel  being  signed 
for in Ms Ls first name. But it also confirmed  that Ms Ls first name was written on the 
parcel. Ms L was adamant  that the phone was never delivered to her. She provided 
evidence to show that shed filed a police  report for the phone  as she considered itd been  
stolen and said she asked  for the phone to be blocked to prevent its use.
We didnt have a GPS location for the second delivery to show it was then taken to the 
correct building  and flat. And I didnt consider the depot and delivery  information  showed that 
it was Ms L who the parcel was delivered to. This is because her first name was written  on 
the parcel, so this information was available to whoever was handed the parcel.  And I hadnt 
seen anything to suggest D asked for identification to check it was actually Ms L signing. Her 
testimony about the deliveries was consistent and I also believed it was persuasive.  It 
Ref: DRN81810252seemed most likely she was being  honest when  she said she didnt receive the phone 
initially  as it wasnt in fact delivered to her address. And her actions  since  Ds second 
delivery attempt  persuaded  me that she still hadnt  received  the phone. So I said I intended 
to uphold this complaint.  I set out that I was intending to direct Assurant to send Ms L a new 
replacement phone and also award her £100  for the inconvenience of not having her 
replacement phone since June 2018.
Assurant responded  accepting  my provisional  decision. Ms L responded asking how she 
went about getting the replacement phone.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new points and Assurant has accepted my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to change my findings. So for the reasons summarised  above  and 
set out in my provisional decision, I uphold  Ms Ls complaint.
Assurant should  now:
Arrange for a replacement phone to be sent out to Ms L.
Pay her £100  for the inconvenience  being  without  a phone has caused
Block  the replacement phone that wasnt delivered
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ls complaint  against Assurant General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8181025