K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains about Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds), handling of her claim in respect  of a
broken down boiler. She wants Lloyds to increase its offer of compensation to her.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in a provisional decision, issued in June 2019. 
A copy of that decision is attached to this. 
In that decision  I explained why I thought Miss Ts complaint should be upheld  and that 
Society of Lloyds ought to increase its offer of compensation  to Miss T.
That provisional decision has been  shared with the parties and they have had the 
opportunity to comment. 
Miss T has responded, setting out that my conclusion  in my provisional view that she had to 
store the old boiler for a long period was incorrect, and she in fact had to store the new 
boiler, until it could  be installed. 
She has also explained that in addition to the vulnerable people who lived in the home, she 
also had another  couple  and infant staying with her over the festive  period. She therefore 
thinks that the compensation I recommended was insufficient and should be increased. 
Lloyds also responded to the provisional view. It set out that Miss T had only been offered 
its loss of use allowance for 21 days, rather than 38 days, because it was in place for a loss 
of heating, rather than heating and hot water, and Miss T had intermittent heating  up until 17 
December 2017.  
Lloyds argued  that the compensation I had set out in my provisional decision was too much 
since it failed to take into account  that Miss T had received a new boiler in place  of her 
previous boiler  which was 9 years old. Lloyds also says that the fact that Miss T indicated 
that she was prepared to wait for the replacement part indicates that she was prepared for 
some inconvenience.  Lloyds therefore considers that the compensation I set out in my 
provisional decision is too high. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am grateful for the clarifications from Miss T and I appreciate that storing the new boiler 
which was yet to be installed was clearly necessary and required greater care around it, than 
storing the removed  boiler. 
I also am grateful  for the clarification about the guests staying in the home. As compensation 
can only be awarded to reflect  the distress and inconvenience suffered by the customer of 
the business, I cannot look at compensation for those individuals,  although  I appreciate that 
the anxiety and distress  suffered by Miss T would have taken into account the additional 
vulnerable people staying with her. 
Ref: DRN80671722I understand Lloyds  comments  that Miss T has received a newer  boiler through the 
relationship with Lloyds, but do not consider that that is relevant  to the level of 
compensation I should award. The decision to instal a new boiler was a choice for the 
business, applying  the homecare  policy as usual. Had nothing gone  wrong,  the installation  of 
a new boiler would not have been  taken into account as a factor  against  Miss T, so I do not 
see that it should affect my view after the service went wrong. 
I also appreciate the explanation from the business about why the loss of use allowance had 
not been offered for the full period. It does not change my view,  however, as Miss T only had 
intermittent heating during the additional period, and although the allowance was not 
intended to cover loss of hot water, in the circumstances, and taking into account the period 
that Miss T was without one or both services, I think it is reasonable that in this case the 
allowance should  be paid for the full period when she was without one or both facility 
Taking into account the additional comments, I consider that the level of compensation I set 
out in my provisional  view remains appropriate.  The comments  from Miss T are helpful, but 
they do not affect my overall view of the level of distress and inconvenience that she 
suffered. 
I therefore adopt my provisional decision and reasons as my final decision (in addition to 
these reasons). 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold Miss Ts complaint. 
I direct  that Society of Lloyds should  pay to Miss T £380 for additional heating costs.  It 
should also reimburse to Miss T £550 paid for the scaffolding.
If Society  of Lloyds has made any earlier payment  to Miss T, it need  only pay any additional, 
unpaid amount that the above compensation represents. 
To any of the above redress that it has not already paid to Miss T, Society of Lloyds  should  
also add simple interest at a rate of 8%* per year from the date Miss T incurred these costs  
to the date of settlement.
Finally, and in addition, Lloyds should pay to Miss T £400 compensation for her distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8067172