K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Ms G are unhappy that esure Insurance Limited wont pay their claim for a lost 
wedding ring under their home insurance.
background
In September  2018 while on holiday Mr A lost his wedding ring. He made a claim to esure 
but as the ring wasnt specified on the policy  and was worth over £1,500  it said it wasnt  
covered. Mr A explained  that he had had the ring from October  2017  and that its purchase  
price was £1,570.  He had forgotten to specify it on the policy,  but pointed  out that it could be 
replaced now for £1,520. Since  this was so close to the limit, and he had made a genuine 
mistake, he thought it would be fair for esure to pay the £1,500  limit for non-specified items.  
But esure wouldnt do this, it said that even though the item was only slightly  over the limit, it 
still wasnt covered, and this is explained  in the policy  terms. 
On referral to this service,  our investigator  didnt  think  that esure had acted unfairly in 
declining the claim.  Mr A and Ms G didnt  agree  and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that Mr A made a genuine mistake. But, by not specifying the ring, it simply wasnt  
covered. It doesnt fall into the general category of contents or personal possessions  worth 
under £1,500. When Mr A and Ms G were sent their renewal documents in October  2015,  
they were notified  of changes to the policy. This included the following addition  to the policy:
We will not pay under  any section of the policy for any single item valued at £1,500 or more  
that has not been listed as a specified item.
So I dont  think that this section of the policy was unclear. The ring in question  was bought 
for £1,570  and can now be bought  for £1,520. Mr A admits that he knew about the limit, and 
had specified  other  items including a watch.  He simply forgot to specify  the wedding  ring 
because of being tied up in his wedding  planning.
I appreciate that the value was very close to the limit, and that for a small extra premium, 
Mr A could have had the wedding ring covered. But there has to be a limit set somewhere 
and there  doesnt  appear to be any doubt  that the ring was over the limit. I dont think it 
would be fair to ask esure to cover  an item which it hadnt been notified  about.
So whilst Im sorry for the distress this may cause  to Mr A and Ms G, Im afraid that I think  
esure acted  fairly  its not obliged to pay for the lost ring.,
Ref: DRN87962912my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8796291