K820x#14Complaint
This complaints about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1998 to protect  dual 
credit card accounts. Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr H says he was unaware PPI had been  added to the credit card accounts. I dont know  for 
sure what  happened  in 1998 but Ive seen a copy of Mr Hs signed credit card application  
form. It shows the box for Mr H to accept PPI was ticked. The box alongside it, to decline 
PPI, was left unmarked.
On balance, I think Barclays made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to do so  although I can understand if he cant  remember that now after all this 
time.
I believe Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover.  
In his complaint  to us in 2018, Mr H says he was entitled to generous  sick pay and 
redundancy pay packages from his employer  and that he had access  to some savings. But I 
note that when Barclays contacted him in 2017  following his initial  complaint,  he said he 
couldnt remember his employer at the time or what his sick pay, redundancy pay or savings 
were. Without supporting  evidence, I dont think its fair for me to rely on his subsequent  
recollections about his circumstances. So I believe the PPI likely  provided him with useful 
protection.  
Regarding the information  gave Mr H about  the PPI at the time, its possible this wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But he chose to take it out  so it looks  like he wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But 
Barclays will pay back some of the cost of the PPI relating to the account thats still running 
to Mr H. Thats because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr H about  that. Because Barclays  didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats fair in this case.
Ref: DRN86804012What the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Barclays should also pay back 
to Mr H any extra interest he paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr H the difference 
between what Mr H owes and what he would have owed if the commission and profit  share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays  should also pay Mr H 8%* simple  
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium for the account  thats  still running,  if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should also pay Mr H £50 as compensation for its poor handling of 
his complaint  as previously offered  if it hasnt already  done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8680401