K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  wasnt  of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr E under  a hire purchase agreement  with Specialist Motor 
Finance that he signed in January 2018.  There was a problem  with the cars steering so 
Mr E returned the car to the dealer. It inspected the car and identified  a fault with the 
electronic steering rack and estimated  that a repair would cost between  £500 and £550. The 
car had been  supplied  with a three month  warranty but the dealer said that the warranty  
didnt cover the repair. But if offered to pay half of the repair  cost. The car was repaired at a 
cost of £498  of which Mr E paid £249. He complained to Specialist Motor Finance which 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. But he wasnt  satisfied with 
its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr E had 
only owned the car for two months and had only covered 200 to 300 miles when he noticed 
the problems.  And he said that he wouldn't expect the problems to happen suddenly on a 
car of a similar age and mileage - so he thought that it was most likely that there was a fault 
with the car when  it was supplied to Mr E. He didnt think that the car was of satisfactory 
quality at that time  so he recommended that Specialist Motor Finance should  refund to 
Mr E the money that he paid towards the repairs.
Specialist Motor Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr E in January 2018. The car was about five years old and had 
a mileage of approximately 67,069. Mr E noticed  problems  with the cars steering about two 
months later after hed used the car to drive less than 300 miles. 
He returned the car to the dealer  and the cars electronic steering rack was replaced.  The 
repair cost £498  but the dealer said that the warranty with which  the car was supplied  didnt 
cover the repair   but it offered to pay half of the repair cost. Mr E paid £249 towards the 
cost of the repair and then complained to Specialist  Motor Finance.
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. The experts  report says 
that this particular model of car has faults  with the steering angle sensor which  is an 
electrical issue and can fail suddenly and without  warning - so theres a strong possibility 
that the fault wasnt a pre-existing condition at the point  of sale.
But Im not persuaded that its fair or reasonable to expect the steering rack on a car of this 
age and mileage  to need to be replaced  so soon after the car was supplied  to Mr E (and 
after hed used  it to drive less than 300 miles). Although the independent expert says that 
theres a strong possibility  that the fault was pre-existing, the report  also says that the 
steering rack couldve been replaced because  of mechanical wear  which  it says couldve 
been an underlying issue at the point of sale.
Ref: DRN85661892I consider it to be more  likely than not that there was an issue  with the steering rack when 
the car was supplied  to Mr E  and that the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality at that time 
because of that issue. So I find that it would  be fair and reasonable in these circumstances  
for Specialist Motor  Finance  to pay £249 to Mr E to reimburse him for the money that he paid 
towards the repair cost  and that it should  also pay interest on that amount.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint. And I order  Specialist 
Motor Finance Limited to:
1.Pay £249 to Mr E to reimburse him for the money that he paid towards the cost of 
the repair.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Specialist Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 2 above. Specialist Motor Finance must give Mr E a certificate  
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8566189