K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about Portal Financial Services LLP (formerly known as Portafina 
LLP). He considers the investments Portafina  advised him to make through his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP)  were unsuitable.
background 
In 2011 Portafina reviewed Mr Cs existing personal  pension plan (PPP) with a view to 
advising him on whether  switching to a SIPP while receiving the tax free cash lump sum 
(TFC) available would  be in his best interests.  
Following a review, Portafina produced a suitability  report which in summary said:  
Mr Cs circumstances were:
-He was 62 years old and married
-He was employed earning approximately £27,000 a year
-He owned  his home but had an outstanding mortgage with monthly  repayments  
of £1300 until 2014 
-He had £1,500 in savings and no investments
-He expected to take an income  from age 65
Regarding Mr Cs PPP:
-His fund value was £25,702. A terminal bonus payable on transfer increased the 
Transfer Value  to £38,159 
-He was invested in a With Profits  fund
Mr Cs Objectives  were to:
 
-Use his existing  PPP to take TFC immediately and make improvements and 
repairs to his home
-Retain a residual  fund that remained  invested until he needed an income in 
retirement
-Ensure he had good awareness of investment opportunities available to him
-Have access to a system which monitored  the performance of his investments
-Be kept informed  of the performance  of his portfolio
-Have a portfolio rebalanced in line with his Risk & Reward profile
Mr Cs risk profile suggested he was a Moderately Adventurous  investor. 
Portafina would usually recommend that Mr C leave his pension benefits where they 
were, as this would be most beneficial for him in retirement. But in accordance with 
his circumstances  and wishes, Portafina recommended that Mr C switch his PPP to a 
SIPP, take his 25% tax-free entitlement and leave the residual fund invested.
Portafina recommended that Mr C invest in the following funds:
-50% Raithwaites Hypa  Fund
-12.5%  Hypa Asia Fund
-17.5%  Venture  Oil International
Ref: DRN85956222-15% EOS Solar Energy
-5% Cash Deposit
Following his acceptance of Portafinas  recommendation, Mr Cs PPP with a value  of 
£37,098.82 was transferred to a SIPP on 18 August 2011. TFC of £9,274.71 was withdrawn 
on 22 August 2011, with the remaining funds invested in line with Portafinas 
recommendations. 
Between January 2012 and November 2013 Mr Cs SIPP received income from his Venture 
Oil, EOS Solar  and Hypa Raithwaite  investments.
In November 2015 Portafina sent Mr C an annual pension review  which  showed  that 
between September  2014  and November 2015 his pension fund had gone from being 
valued at £26,390 to £25,817.91.
Mr Cs annual statement for April 2016  showed the total value of his SIPP was £25,662.50. 
His EOS Solar investment had decreased in value  by 5% and his Venture Oil investment 
had decreased by 17%. Mr Cs Hypa investments  had largely  retained  their values.
By 2017 Mr Cs annual statement showed the total value of his SIPP  was £15,354.61.  His 
EOS Solar and Venture Oil funds had nominal  values  of £0.45 and £0.71 respectively. 
Mr Cs Hypa Asia fund, originally purchased  for £3,006, was valued at £768. His Hypa 
Raithwaite fund, originally  purchased for £12,024,  was valued at £12,000. 
On 4 September 2018 Mr C contacted our service directly to complain about Portafinas 
investment advice. The complaint was forwarded  to Portafina who sent its final response on 
30 October 2018, saying  the complaint had been  made too late.
Unhappy with Portafinas response, Mr C referred his complaint back  to our service.  
Portafina objected  to our service considering  the complaint and maintained that it hadnt  
been referred in time. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the matter and didnt think  the complaint had been made 
too late. Following  this he considered the merits of Mr Cs complaint. As Mr C hadnt  
complained about the advice he received to switch to a SIPP  in the first place, he focused  on 
Mr Cs concerns about the investments  Portafina had advised him to make following the 
switch. The adjudicator concluded  that Portafinas  recommendation that Mr C invest  95% of 
his pension fund in unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS)/high yielding bonds 
was unsuitable.  He also disagreed with Portafinas  assessment  that Mr C had a moderately 
adventurous ATR and said there was nothing to indicate he was in a position to take on the 
level of risk associated with Portafinas investment recommendation.
The adjudicator set out how he thought Portafina should put things right which, in addition  to 
carrying out a loss calculation, included paying Mr C £750 for trouble and upset caused.
Portafina disagreed  with the adjudicator and requested an ombudsmans  decision on 
whether Mr Cs complaint  could be considered  by our service. An ombudsman  considered  
Portafinas objection  and determined that, as the complaint had been made in time, it could 
be considered. 
Portafina raised no further objections regarding jurisdiction. However, it said it disagreed with 
the adjudicators  view that the complaint should  be upheld. Specifically, it said the 
Ref: DRN85956223assessment of Mr Cs ATR was correct when  considering his answers  to the risk profiling 
questionnaire, his circumstances and term to retirement. It also added that it felt the redress  
methodology recommended by the adjudicator  was unfair. In particular it said that given the 
level of the trouble and upset payment the adjudicator recommended, it didnt think  it was 
reasonable to expect  it to also add 8% simple  interest to Mr Cs calculated  losses.   
As no agreement could be reached  the case was referred for a final decision.
Prior to the complaint being  allocated to an ombudsman, Mr Cs complaint was reviewed and 
the redress methodology the adjudicator previously outlined amended.  This included 
reasoning for why £300 was considered a more  reasonable payment for trouble and upset 
caused by Portafinas inappropriate advice.  And why Portafina should also pay Mr C an 
upfront lump  sum equivalent  to five years worth of SIPP fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mr Cs complaint  
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Mr C has complained about the suitability of the investments within  his SIPP.  Hes raised 
concerns about  their illiquidity, collapse in value  and the impact  this has had on his ability to 
access his funds. Theres nothing to suggest  Mr C has complained about or has any 
concerns about  the recommendation to switch to the SIPP,  take the TFC and allocate  funds 
for income  drawdown,  so I havent  considered  these  aspects of the transaction. 
As part of its advice to switch his existing PPP to a SIPP in order to access TFC,  Portafina 
recommended a portfolio which resulted in almost all of Mr Cs pension fund being invested 
in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS  findings  are relevant here. Here it said that as well 
as UCIS only being eligible for promotion to certain customers  (generally sophisticated, high 
net worth  investors), as an example, even when a customer was deemed eligible for the 
promotion of UCIS,  suitable advice involved limiting a client's  exposure  to these investments 
to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In Mr Cs case, 95% of his SIPP was invested in 
UCIS. I dont think UCIS was suitable  for Mr C at all, let alone  in the proportion invested. 
Theres nothing to indicate Mr C had the requisite knowledge or experience  to accept or 
understand the risks associated with these  types of investments.
Portafinas suitability  report  acknowledged the associated risks and restrictions  that applied  
to the promotion of UCIS. And although  it confirmed that Mr C wasnt  a person who [was] 
exempt under the FSMA 2000 PCIS  orders, i.e. a high net worth or sophisticated  investor, it 
believed that as it was qualified to advise on UCIS investments and had taken reasonable 
steps to ensure that the investment  was suitable  (by way of a full Know Your  Customer  
Investigation and ATR Assessment, an exemption  had been provided  under the Conduct  of 
Business Rules  (COBS) 4.1.2.
I dont believe Mr C wouldve understood the meaning of this statement and there was no 
accompanying explanation in plain English to say why these investments were not suitable 
for most retail customers, or why Mr C was an exception.
The list of exemptions  under  COBS 4.12 in 2011 set out the various categories of person to 
whom UCIS could be promoted. The exemption Portafina appear to be referencing  is for a 
category 8 person, someone  for whom the firm has: 
Ref: DRN85956224undertaken an adequate assessment of his expertise,  experience and knowledge and that 
assessment gives reasonable assurance that the person is capable of making his own 
investment decisions  and understanding the risks involved. 
I do not believe Portafina took these  necessary steps. Mr C had no recorded investment 
experience and his existing  pension  was held in a with profits  fund. His past experience  and 
occupation gave  no indication whatsoever that he would qualify for this exemption. As such, 
I dont believe that any level of investment in UCIS funds  wouldve been appropriate for him.
Not only was the level of risk attached  to UCIS  funds unsuitable for Mr C, their lack of 
liquidity when he was so near to retirement and likely to need  to access the cash in the near 
future also made them inappropriate.
Mr C was 62 years old and although his retirement age had not been recorded, there was no 
reason to expect  that he would want to work beyond normal  retirement age of 65. This is 
supported by the fact that he made enquiries about  accessing his funds three years later, in 
2014. 
As the level of risk and the lack of liquidity was not suitable for Mr C, the firm has not acted 
in line with COBS  9.2.1:
1.A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade  is suitable  for its client
2.When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm 
must obtain the necessary information  regarding the clients
a)knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific  type of 
designated investment or service;
b)financial situation; and
c)Investment objectives;
so as to enable the firm to make the recommendation,  or take the decision, which is suitable 
for him.
Mr Cs attitude to risk (ATR) was recorded  as moderately adventurous, but this is not 
supported by his circumstances. 
Portafinas report defined  a moderately adventurous investor as usually being fairly 
experienced investors who had used a range of investment products in the past; typically  
had moderate  to high levels of financial knowledge; were willing to take risk with a 
substantial portion of their available assets  and who would usually take gambles. 
As noted earlier, Mr C had no previous investment experience and no rationale was provided 
by Portafina to say why he wanted  to start exposing his pension to a greater risk of capital 
loss by investing in moderately  adventurous funds at this stage in his life. 
I appreciate that this classification  was the result  of a risk-profiling tool provided by a third 
party and Portafina have argued that they are permitted to rely on this outcome. While I do 
not doubt that Mr C did provide responses which resulted in the recorded ATR, these 
couldnt be used  in isolation and his wider  circumstances  needed  to be considered. 
Ref: DRN85956225Portafina argued that the answers  were not viewed in isolation and the whole questionnaire, 
along with the fact find call were  considered.  However, it did not state what  information was 
provided within this call that wasnt recorded in the Pension Release Report held on file and 
supports the moderately adventurous ATR. I would expect any information  a customer  gave 
in a phone  call to be noted in the final report if it affected the advice,  both to demonstrate  
suitability and as a record of the customers circumstances.  The lack of any such 
information, or any specific reference to it by Portafina in their recent correspondence, 
suggests that no additional  information  was given by Mr C in the call which was not also 
noted in the report. A copy of the call has not been  provided by Portafina and with the lack of 
any information to the contrary,  I have relied on the information within  the report  as being 
accurate and a complete record of Mr Cs circumstances at the time.
This report shows that, in addition to a lack of investment experience, Mr C did not have the 
capacity to expose his pension to a high (moderately adventurous) level of risk. He was 
likely to need to take the funds within the next few years,  had no other recorded pension 
provision and minimal cash savings, so would not be able to replace any losses to his fund 
over the short  term left to retirement. Any significant losses  at this stage of his life would 
clearly have a serious impact on his future retirement provision. 
The original  PPP was held in a with profits fund. This would be classed as being a balanced 
or medium risk investment today, but were marketed as being low risk when they were being 
actively promoted for pensions and investments. The recommendation increased the level of 
risk Mr Cs pension  was exposed to, even though he was approaching  retirement.  Even if 
standard moderately adventurous  funds had been  recommended and not UCIS funds, it 
would usually be considered good practice to de-risk a consumers pension assets the 
nearer they got to retirement and not increase the chance of capital  loss. There was no 
reason for Mr C to take on additional  risk at this point of his life by moving up to moderately 
adventurous funds.
Even if Mr C had the necessary level of experience and knowledge to demonstrate  a 
tolerance for moderately adventurous  investments  which I do not believe he did have  the 
capacity for that level of risk was clearly  not there. Portafinas role was not simply to facilitate 
a customers preferences  if they were detrimental  to their long-term financial goals. Their 
function was to make a suitable recommendation and explain why it was appropriate  to the 
customers circumstances.
Based on this, I do not believe that Mr C had the tolerance or capacity to invest  his pension 
in moderately  adventurous  funds. As he had just three years to retirement and was likely to 
start taking  income at that point,  a suitable  recommendation would have been to invest  him 
in low to balanced  risk funds.
What should Portafina  do to put things right?
To compensate Mr C fairly Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase  its value  
by the amount of the compensation  and any interest. The amount paid should allow 
Ref: DRN85956226for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be 
paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable  to pay the compensation  into Mr C's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age.
For example, if Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start 
date)to 
(end  date)additional interest
SIPPstill 
existsfor half the 
investment:  FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income  
Total  Return Index;  
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
switchdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date of 
decision  to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days  of the 
business being 
notified  of 
acceptance)
Portafina have  made  several ex-gratia payments to Mr C since  2017 to compensate  him for 
the fact he has not been able to take any income  from his pension. These payments were 
not made with any admission of liability on Portafinas part and accepting  them  did not 
prevent Mr C from pursuing his complaint against  the firm. However, the value of these 
payments can be included by Portafina as part of their calculation, as they do represent a 
benefit Mr C has derived from his pension.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as may be the 
case here. Where this applies, the actual value  should be assumed  to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Portafina should take ownership  of any illiquid investment by paying  a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
Ref: DRN85956227the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portafina is unable  to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. Portafina  may require that Mr C provides an undertaking to 
pay Portafina any amount  he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. Portafina will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Portafina 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year  fixed-rate bonds  as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month  is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deduct  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Future SIPP  fees
If Portafina had given suitable  advice  Mr C wouldnt hold any UCIS funds in the SIPP. The 
SIPP is entirely comprised of UCIS. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr C wish to 
move his investment  portfolio) and further  SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need 
to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved  by Portafina  
taking over the investments, or this is something that Mr C can discuss  with his SIPP  
provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties,  I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide  a reasonable  period for the parties  to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
The adjudicator originally suggested an award of £750 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by Portafinas recommendation, noting amongst other things that Mr C regarded  this 
money to be critical to his retirement plans. However, this award did not take into account 
the efforts which Portafina had made in dealing with the complaint, particularly the ex-gratia 
income payments  they have made. In view of this, I believe that a lower  award of £300 is 
reasonable.
I am aware  that Portafina has also raised  objections to the recommendation for interest to be 
added at 8% simple from the date of calculation to the date of payment. I am not sure why 
when this is the standard method of adding interest to compensation to account for any 
delays between the date the calculation was completed to the date of payment. The purpose 
of the interest  is to ensure  that a customer is not disadvantaged by any delays in payment, 
once compensation  has been  agreed. 
Ref: DRN85956228It is entirely separate to any payment awarded  for distress and inconvenience, or any other  
compensatory amount. Crucially, it does  not need  to be paid by Portafina if, as noted  above, 
they are able to pay the compensation to Mr C within 28 days  of being  notified of his 
acceptance of the redress  I have outlined.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr C's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr C into that position.  It does not mean that Mr C would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr C could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services  LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation  to Mr C in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2021.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8595622