K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains W Todd  & Son Limited unfairly cancelled his motor trade insurance policy.  
background
W Todd  arranged  motor trade  insurance policies for Mr M from 2014. In 2018 it cancelled  his 
policy for non-payment of premium. He thinks this was done unfairly. 
Mr M says he had fully paid the premium. He also thinks W Todds  failed to credit his 
account with payments  he made.  He feels its incorrectly calculated  his accounts, including 
failing to apply  premium refunds over the years. And he says charges have been unfairly 
applied to his account. Mr M wants his cancelled policy reinstated. He also wants 
compensation for income  he lost as a result of being  without cover. 
Our Investigator  said W Todd had acted  fairly  when cancelling Mr Ms policy.  She didnt 
agree with him that it had incorrectly calculated  refunds. And she said it had applied the 
charges fairly. So she didnt ask W Todd  to do anything differently. Mr M didnt accept  her 
assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making W Todd 
reinstate the policy or do anything differently. 
The 2018  policy  was cancelled for non-payment of premium. W Todds terms of business  
say its entitled  to cancel a policy with seven days notice if there is a failure  to pay the 
required premiums. 
Ive considered the accounts and payment information provided by W Todd and Mr M. It 
seems there were  unpaid  premiums for the 2018  policy when it was cancelled.  As there  was 
when outstanding balance reminders and the notice  of cancellation were sent. The policy 
was cancelled fairly and in line with the terms of business.
 
Mr M says he didnt  receive a notice  of cancellation  letter. It seems it was returned to 
W Todd. The address used seems  correct  so its not clear why. But W Todds provided a 
record of it also telling  Mr M about the cancellation  by email and text message.
 
In any event it seems Mr M did know about the cancellation notice. Shortly  after it was 
issued he made a payment. But he didnt clear the balance, so the policy was cancelled 
anyway. Mr M says W Todd told him the policy wouldnt be cancelled after he made the 
partial payment.  There isnt anything to support what Mr M says.  W Todd denies it said that. 
On balance I think its more likely  it didnt  say it. 
  
Mr M says W Todd  should  have done  more to let him know  about  outstanding balances on 
his earlier  policies. But even  if it had, he still owed premiums on the policy that was 
cancelled. So it wouldnt have made a difference to that cancellation.  
According to Mr M, W Todd calculated his accounts  incorrectly. He says it didnt credit at 
least one payment he made. This is an informal service  so Im not going to respond 
directly to every point Mr Ms made about  this matter. But Ive considered them  and all the 
Ref: DRN88164442information hes provided - including what he says about a missing  £500 payment. Ive also 
considered what  W Todds provided.  
Our Investigator  gave Mr M a useful  breakdown  of the transaction and accounts for the 
various policies  and the overall balance of his account. So Im not going  to repeat all that 
here.  
Mr M hasnt  made me think  W Todd failed to credit  any payments to his account or that it 
calculated his account incorrectly. Refunds on cancelled premiums seem to have been 
applied fairly. Ive no reason to think,  as Mr M claims, the account  has been manipulated by 
W Todd. It says he now has a credit of £220.  Ive no reason to think  it should  be any 
different.
Theres a statement of account, provided by Mr M, showing an extra £500. The amount  
hasnt been credited to his accounts or balance by W Todd. The statement doesnt match 
those provided by W Todd.  Its identical expect  for the additional  undated £500. I cant 
explain it. But it doesnt make me think W Todd failed to credit  the account  with a payment  
Mr M did make.  
W Todd  charged Mr M various  fees.  Hes unhappy  about that. These include charges for 
administration, outstanding balance reminders  and notice of cancellation. Again the 
investigator explained these in detail  so Im not going to do the same here. But Ive 
considered them and W Todds terms of business. Having done so, I think the charges have 
been applied  fairly overall.
So Im not going to make W Todd  reinstate the cancelled  policy  or do anything differently 
W Todd  says it issued a cheque for the credit  on Mr Ms account. He says he hasnt received 
it. If Mr M would like the cheque reissued he will need to contact  W Todd. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making W Todd & Son Limited do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8816444