K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with their 
home emergency insurance claim.  My references  to RSA include its agents.
background
On 8 August  Mrs H claimed on their home emergency policy, insured  with RSA, for a leak 
from the boiler. She turned  off the stop cock, as RSA later advised,  meaning the family had 
no water  and no flushing toilet.  RSAs contracted engineer attended  late that evening but 
said he couldnt fix it and RSA would be in touch.
Mrs H chased RSA on 9 August.  She said it told her she shouldnt have been left without 
water. Another engineer attended about  9pm and said he wasnt  qualified  to fix the problem. 
Mrs H called RSA and was offered emergency  accommodation. Around  10:30pm the family 
moved to a hotel, about a 40 minute drive from home.
Mrs H has provided a detailed chronology  of the subsequent events. In summary, she says 
RSA caused unnecessary  delays meaning  the boiler wasnt  fixed for 12 days.  Throughout 
that time Mrs H made numerous calls to RSA to try to get the repairs done. She had to take 
time off work for engineers, which on one occasion  didnt  turn up. The family  stayed in a 
hotel during that time but Mrs H says that was very inconvenient as the hotel was a longer 
distance away from her and Mr Hs work  and the childrens activities.  There  were  practical  
problems with the accommodation.
Mrs H complained to RSA. She wanted RSA to pay the following:
It had agreed a meal  allowance of £40 for the family of four but hadnt paid for the all 
the nights they had to eat away  from home 
£100 for the five nights their dog had to be in kennels
£30 shed paid for soccer school that the children missed  because of the situation
£17.60 for prescriptions for emergency  steroids as the stress caused  her named 
medical condition  to flare up
£20 launderette  costs.
Mr and Mrs H also wanted RSA to pay compensation for the extra petrol,  food costs  and 
phone calls (which they couldnt quantify), for their stress and the impact  on Mrs Hs health, 
which she detailed.
RSA accepted it had given poor service. It apologised and paid the outstanding agreed  meal 
allowance, the kennel and laundry costs, a total of £280. It also paid £100 compensation for 
the stress  and inconvenience it caused.
Mr and Mrs H complained  to us saying £100  was an insult  given the stress and financial 
impact RSA caused.
Our investigator thought the £100 compensation RSA paid was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made this decision I told both parties that I was minded to award  another  £100 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  (making £200 in total)  and asked for their 
comments. Neither party agreed. RSA said there was no evidence Mrs Hs medical condition 
Ref: DRN86193812was exacerbated  by stress. Mr and Mrs H said they were looking for £500 in total 
compensation to enable  them to take the children somewhere to make  up for their summer 
which had been  ruined.  Mrs H said her doctor  told her the medical  condition  was made 
worse by her stress and if RSA wanted  a doctors report  to confirm it should pay the report  
fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  have given  me their comments on my intended compensation award which Ive 
considered. So I can now make a final decision.
This should have  been a relatively  straightforward claim and it went on for too long. RSA 
accepts it gave poor service. I need to decide  if the payments  RSA made were reasonable. 
Its clear Mr and Mrs H found  the situation  very stressful. But I can only award compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience RSA caused. The family were in a difficult and stressful 
situation but RSA wasnt  responsible for all their problems. Even if RSA had repaired the 
fault in a reasonable timescale its highly likely the family would still have been in emergency 
accommodation for several  days.
Theres no basis for me to say RSA must pay another £400 in compensation. But I dont 
think the £100 RSA paid does reflect the additional stress and upheaval Mr and Mrs H had 
due to RSAs  actions. Although theres no doctors report to confirm the stress made Mrs Hs 
medical condition  worse, from my general  research stress can cause symptoms of the type 
of condition Mrs H has to flare up. From  the evidence I have I think  its more likely than not 
that happened. 
Overall I think  an additional £100  compensation is a reasonable amount for the distress and 
inconvenience RSAs  poor service  caused.
RSA has paid most of the additional quantified  costs Mr and Mrs H incurred due to the 
situation. Most of those  costs arent specifically covered by the policy.  RSA acted fairly in 
paying those costs. It doesnt need to pay for the soccer school costs or any of the 
unquantifiable costs Mrs H listed, which arent  covered by the policy. My award of additional 
compensation acknowledges that at least some of those costs would have been  less if RSA 
had acted in a reasonable timescale. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation (in 
addition to the £100 its already paid)  for their distress and inconvenience  its actions caused.
Payment must be made within 28 days of us telling Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc that 
Mr and Mrs H accept my final decision.
Ref: DRN86193813Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8619381