K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that BUPA Insurance Limited  increased her premium in relation to her 
health insurance policy without her agreement.  
background
In September  2017, Ms B took out a health insurance policy with BUPA. The premium  was 
payable monthly  and the policy was subject to automatic renewal, if BUPA decided to offer 
renewal. 
On renewal, in September 2018,  BUPA increased  the premium. In October  2018,  Ms B 
complained that the amount BUPA had taken by direct debit had increased without her 
knowledge or consent. 
Ms B claimed against the policy  in October  2018.  In November 2018, Ms B told BUPA  that 
she wanted to cancel the policy.
 
I understand that Ms Bs policy  lapsed  on 1 December 2018.  Theres  an outstanding balance 
of £799.31.
Ms B says that BUPA  increased the premium without informing her and before she agreed to 
the increase. She wants BUPA to refund the increased amount she paid from 
1 October 2018 and to cancel the outstanding  balance. She also wants no adverse 
information recorded about her.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. He said that BUPA  had acted in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the policy. The investigator said that BUPA  
wasnt obliged to seek Ms Bs permission  before  increasing the premium. He said that it was 
obliged to notify Ms B of the increase in premium in advance,  which it had done. 
Ms B says that she never agreed to pay the increased premium  and BUPA  didnt check  that 
she accepted  the increase before taking the higher  amount by monthly direct debit. She 
doesnt agree that theres an outstanding balance. Ms B says that BUPA  should  have waited 
for her approval before changing the amount of the direct debit. She said that she wanted to 
pursue her complaint, unless BUPA cancels the outstanding balance. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86304142the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy, which  include the following:
6. Renewal
6.1 We will write to let you know if this policy  will renew for the next year in advance of the 
renewal date.
Each policy year we may change how we calculate your premiums, how we determine 
premiums, what  you have  to pay and the method  of payment.[]
We will issue you a notice at least 30 days in advance of the renewal date, with details of 
the new premium []. If you do not want to renew this policy,  you must contact us within  30 
days following the start of the renewed policy .
Unless you contact us to tell us not to, we will continue  to take payment of the new premium  
using the payment details you have given us.
has BUPA  treated Ms B unfairly?
I dont think that BUPA  treated  Ms B unfairly.  Ill explain why:
BUPA has provided this service with a screen-shot showing that it sent Ms B renewal 
information in August  2018, 30 days before renewal in September 2018. It sent an 
e-mail to Ms Bs e-mail address and documentation was available  on-line. It wasnt 
required to do any more  than that. 
Under the terms and conditions  of the policy, BUPA wasnt  obliged  to wait for Ms Bs 
approval before collecting the increased  monthly payment. If the renewal terms were 
not acceptable to Ms B, it was open  to her to cancel  the policy.
There are no grounds on which to direct BUPA to refund the payments Ms B made in 
relation to the 2018-2019  policy  year. Cover  was in place  and I note that Ms B 
claimed against the policy  in that policy year.
Similarly, there are no grounds  on which  to direct BUPA to cancel the amount Ms B 
owes. Ms B had cover until the policy lapsed and payment  for the period of cover 
remains outstanding.  
Ive seen nothing  to indicate  that BUPA has recorded adverse information  about 
Ms B such that it would prevent her from obtaining  insurance with another provider. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms B but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN86304143my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8630414