K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured loan Mr and Mrs M took out in 2008. The loan was 
originally taken out with a business I will call F. Ownership of the loan was transferred to 
Elderbridge in January 2016.  Mr M, who has dealt  with the complaint throughout, says that 
he was told by F that no interest would be charged on the account  whilst he was out of work. 
But he says that Elderbridge is claiming  there is a large interest balance due on the account 
of more than £22,000.  
background
On 28 April 2008 Mr and Mrs M took out a secured loan with F. They borrowed £70,000 over 
a period of 20 years.  The account  ran largely  satisfactorily until 2012 when I am sorry to note 
that Mr M lost his job. The account fell into arrears and in 2014 F suspended the interest  on 
the account. Mr M says that it was his understanding at that time that no interest at all would 
be charged on the account.
In January 2016 Elderbridge took over the loan. At that point the capital  balance  on the 
account was £67,000, but there  were  also arears of £19,000, and suspended interest of 
about £12,000. Elderbridge took over the account  on the terms on which it had been run by 
F, which included the suppression of interest on the arrears.
In March 2016 Elderbridge sent a statement  to Mr and Mrs M which included the amount of 
accrued interest  which would be owed once the capital balance  was cleared. As stated 
above, this was about £12,000. The accrued interest  is now around £25,000.
In September  2018 Mr M complained about  this. He said that, when he discussed his 
financial situation with F after he lost his job, he was told interest would no longer be applied 
to the account.  Mr M was shocked to learn  of the amount of interest Elderbridge  claimed he 
owed.
Elderbridge didnt uphold the complaint.  It explained  that it was F which had suspended the 
interest and that this had been done to assist Mr and Mrs M. Unhappy with Elderbridges  
response, Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to us. An investigator looked at it but he 
didnt think it should be upheld. He didnt think Elderbridge had done anything  wrong.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. In summary Mr M says that he cannot reconcile how charging  interest  of more 
than £20,000  is beneficial to him, having previously been told that no interest  whatsoever  
would be applied to his account until he was able to recommence work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I have some 
disappointing news for Mr and Mrs M. After reviewing the file, Im unable  to uphold the 
complaint.
When a monthly payment  is missed, it doesnt just put the loan into arrears  by the amount 
missed. Because  the monthly payment  is made up of both interest  and an amount to reduce 
the capital, failure  to pay means the overall  loan balance wont reduce as it should. As a 
result, the balance  is higher than it ought to be the following month   meaning more interest 
Ref: DRN84625772is charged, the balance goes up again,  and then more interest is charged the following 
month.
That means that over time, where a loan has been in arrears because payments arent being 
made, the balance can go up, even after the arrears  have been paid off. And theres less 
time left to reduce it before the scheduled  end of the loan term. So even where the borrower 
has paid off the arrears  and starts  making  the original contractual monthly  payments again,  
those payments are no longer enough  to pay the loan off by the end of the term. Thats  
because clearing the arrears isnt enough  by itself to pay off the additional interest, or any 
fees and charges added  to the account,  which also attract interest.
So in order to prevent interest  accruing on unpaid interest, lenders will ring-fence the 
interest in a separate account, so that it doesnt  attract further compound  interest. This is 
what has happened in this case, when  F suppressed the interest. 
Mr M says that he was led to believe by F that no interest  at all would be charged  on his 
account whilst he remained out of work.  The decision to suppress interest was taken by F, 
not Elderbridge  and so I cant comment on that here. I see that the investigator has 
explained to Mr and Mrs M that if they want to complain about  any actions taken by F before 
the loan was sold to Elderbridge, they can do so by contacting the bank which took over that 
business. Mr and Mrs M have been  given details  of that bank.
Im not making any findings here about the decision  by F to suppress interest on the 
account.  I can only consider the complaint against  Elderbridge in relation  to what  happened  
after it took over the loan in January 2016. 
Having considered everything  Mr and Mrs M and Elderbridge have said and after reviewing 
the account statements, I dont think Elderbridge has done anything wrong. Im satisfied that 
since 2016 Elderbridge has kept Mr and Mrs M informed of the interest  charged  on their 
account. The annual  statements issued  by Elderbridge since 2016 have a section which 
deals specifically with this in terms which are clear  and unambiguous. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed  by my decision,  and Im aware that it comes 
at a difficult time for them.  I am truly sorry if my decision adds to their distress. But after 
careful consideration, I cant see that Elderbridge has done anything wrong in its 
administration of this account in relation to interest on the arrears.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8462577