K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ms complaint about Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited  relates to an attempted 
property purchase using his LV SIPP. Mr M says LV did not understand the proposition  he 
had put to them for the purchase  of ground  floor retail premises  and the freehold of a mixed-
use property. He believes LV also did not understand the basis  of the existing commercial  
leases on the retail property, which contributed to delays, as a result  of which Mr M missed 
the completion deadline and was not able to buy the property. 
As part of the funding  of the purchase, Mr M needed to borrow £130,000 and wanted to do 
this via the SIPP. He says LV should  have done  more to explain  to him who could  lend 
money to the SIPP and that this lack of detail on the part of LV contributed  to the failed 
property purchase.   
background
The background to this complaint was set out by the adjudicator in her adjudication report. In 
brief, Mr M wanted to buy a freehold  property consisting of two ground floor retail units  with 
sitting tenants, together with a first floor residential  flat. Mr M had some prior knowledge of 
this building, having worked in one of the units for some time, and as a result, was aware of 
its development potential.  
The actual sale was to be from the vendor to a developer, with a sub-sale of the freehold  
and ground floor retail  property to Mr M, all to be arranged with simultaneous  completion 
planned for 30 January 2017. Mr M would then issue  a long lease to the developer,  who 
would re-develop the upper, residential,  parts of the building.
Mr M transferred his existing pension  plans into a new LV SIPP. This was on advice from an 
independent financial  adviser. On 26 November  2016, Mr M and his adviser sent a property 
purchase application to LV together with an outline  proposal which  explained the planned 
purchase in some more  detail. LV was also informed that Mr M was arranging  a £130,000 
bank loan to cover the shortfall between the value of the pension fund available  and the 
agreed property purchase price.
LV asked some questions  and upon  receipt of the answers, attempted to complete the loan 
arrangements within  the available  timeframe. Despite two deferrals of the completion date, 
LV was not able to complete the conveyancing for the loan arrangements before the sub-
sale fell through  when  the vendor decided to pull out of the sale.
Mr M complained to LV, but his complaint was not upheld. Dissatisfied with this outcome, he 
referred his complaint to this Service, where it was investigated by one of our adjudicators. 
She did not uphold the complaint as she thought that LV had done all it reasonably could in 
the circumstances.
Noting that when the loan fell through, LV did not permit Mr M to be the lender, using his 
own cash for the loan to the SIPP. The adjudicator said it was up to LVs commercial 
discretion whether to accept him as a lender or not. It was also not for LV to explain to Mr M 
or his adviser HMRCs stance on who could  be a lender, but rather his adviser should have 
established whether the loan could likely be set up within  the short time available, and if not, 
then what alternatives might be permissible under HMRCs rules.  
Ref: DRN85449272The adjudicator thought  that it was Mr Ms financial adviser, and not LV, who was 
responsible for investigating whether the property could be held in a SIPP. As part of the 
property was residential, this should have given the adviser pause  for thought.  In a separate  
complaint about  the adviser, the adjudicator upheld the complaint and compensation has 
been paid to Mr M.  
Mr M did not agree with the adjudicators findings about the complaint against LV. He did not 
accept that there had been a time pressure from the outset which  was likely  to result 
ultimately in a failure to meet the deadline.
The application form stated that he was buying the Freehold. If LV was unclear about this 
then they should have  clarified the situation.
Mr M took advice about the leases and said LV should not have agreed that the proposal  
was acceptable  in principle if it was clear  that they would not be able to complete within the 
available time. He did not accept what the adjudicator had said about  who could be a lender, 
saying he had never received an explanation  from LV as to who could  be an alternative  
lender to the SIPP. Mr M asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  
The adjudicator remained of the view that LV had not done  anything wrong. Mr M made 
some further  points. Primarily, he challenged her assertion that LV were unaware  of his 
extensive previous  experience in the property market, and for this reason had not put real 
weight on his property  application form, upon  which  he had ticked  the freehold box. 
Further, he did not agree  that LVs email clarifying  the proposal was sufficient to ensure they 
fully understood  what was being  proposed before agreeing that it was acceptable in 
principle.
my findings
Mr M complained about his adviser  and has already accepted an offer of compensation. He 
also complained  about the lender, but due to a technicality was unable  to bring the complaint  
himself as the trustees were borrowing the money. I am sorry that it has taken so long to 
issue the final decision for this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that LV has not done  anything wrong.  Let me explain why.
I think the timescales to set up the SIPP and buy the property  were  quite short.  This meant 
there would be some  pressure to complete  the whole process. I have focused on what I think  
the two key problems were  in buying  the property. The Freehold with residential property 
and the lending, including issues with the lease.
The first point for me to make is that Mr M was receiving advice. I think the adviser should 
have identified a problem as soon as he was aware that Mr M intended to buy the Freehold  
of a property with residential accommodation. This can be held within a pension, but in my 
experience most pension  providers will not allow it because  of the tax position. In my view,  
this should have been resolved by the adviser  before making  any application for a SIPP.
Ref: DRN85449273It is possible that LV could  have identified that what  Mr M was proposing  would not be 
permitted. I accept that he said he was buying  the Freehold on the application, but the form 
and accompanying letter  explained he was buying  the ground floor. The outline  proposal 
appears to be clear that a developer was buying the building with Mr M buying the ground 
floor. Although there  was an indication that Mr M was buying the Freehold, I do not think that 
this should have caused LV to query  the proposal.  I say this taking into account  that the 
application came  from a financial adviser  who should have known that residential property 
would not be accepted.
NM Pensions Trustees Ltd applied for a loan with a bank. The correspondence I have seen 
indicates that this was the standard method for LV to use when a SIPP  was being used to 
borrow funds. I can see that there  were  problems and delays, although LV chased the bank 
for updates  regularly.  I cannot see that there  was any delay on the part of LV. Neither can I 
say that the procedure they followed for arranging the loan was at fault because it appears to 
be the standard procedure that I am not aware  causes any problems generally.
There were issues about  the lease as that had expired. Mr M thought  this could be easily 
resolved and often  does  take some time. LV explained that as the Trustee they had to take 
steps to ensure that the loan was repaid. Again, I think this is within  the standard approach  
taken by LV and is not unreasonable. I do not think LV did anything wrong.
Mr M has missed  the opportunity to buy a property  he thought would be a good investment. I 
am not satisfied that LV did anything wrong  in their dealings with Mr M. He has already 
received compensation from his adviser. We were unable to look at his complaint  against the 
bank, but he did receive  compensation  from the bank for their poor service.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8544927