K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a car that he is financing  through an agreement  with BMW Financial  
Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr F visited a dealership in February 2018  as hed arranged a test drive. But when  he 
arrived the car hed come  to drive had already been  sold. Mr F says the salesman showed 
him a newer similar car with fewer miles on the clock.  He told Mr F it was the same 
specification as the one hed agreed  to test drive other than it didnt have reversing cameras.
Mr F says he agreed to the deal on that basis and in February  2018  he therefore took receipt 
of a used car. He financed the deal through a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. At the 
point of supply  the car was about  five months old and had completed just under 5,000 miles.
But Mr F was disappointed with the car as, when  he got it home, he realised it didnt  have 
the same  phone interface or the automatic parking function that wouldve been available on 
the car hed originally booked to test drive.  He complained to BMWFS but the dealership  
disputed Mr Fs version of events. They said they hadnt promised Mr F that the 
specifications were  the same and in those circumstances they didnt  have to accept the car 
back.
So Mr F referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided her opinion. She 
wasnt persuaded that there was sufficient  evidence the car had been  misrepresented  to 
Mr F. She noted that hed had previous experience with this type of car and she thought it 
was most likely he would therefore have looked  for the features  that were  important  to him 
during the test drive. She also thought  it was most  likely he wouldve considered  the features 
that were listed on the order  form hed signed  and understood  that automatic parking and the 
requisite phone interface werent  available  on the vehicle he settled on. She understood that 
when the car Mr F had originally wanted  to test drive had not been available the salesman 
had tried to find other similar vehicles which had varying specifications.  She thought  it most  
likely that Mr F had therefore got confused  about was being  offered and she therefore didnt 
think it would  be fair to ask BMWFS to take any further action.
She noted that Mr F had provided a recording of a conversation hed had with the 
salesmans manager  but she explained that as she had the testimony of the salesman 
himself; she found that more compelling.  
But Mr F disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  and he therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr F so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN83746942Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car shouldnt  have been 
misrepresented to Mr F. If it was and if this induced Mr F into entering  into the finance 
agreement with BMWFS then they are responsible and Id ask them  to put things right.
Mr F says the dealership  told him the car did have  the same specification  but the dealership 
disagree. I think its fair to give the same weight to both testimonies.
Im not persuaded by the record of the conversation  that Mr F had with the sales manager. I 
dont think it would be fair to give this record  much  weight as the sales manager wasnt  
aware the conversation was being  recorded and hasnt had a chance to dispute its accuracy 
or authenticity. 
Im persuaded that its most likely  the car wasnt misrepresented to Mr F because:
hes explained to the adjudicator that he knew about these types of car so I think  its 
reasonable to suggest he would have some  understanding  of the various 
specifications and an ability to distinguish between models  and optional  extras
Mr F signed  the order form that detailed the cars specification and I think its 
reasonable to have  expected him to have read and understood what he was signing.
So in those  circumstances  I dont think theres sufficient evidence that the car was 
misrepresented to Mr F and I dont  think BMWFS  need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8374694