K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her a Graduate  
Additions packaged bank account in 2005. She paid a monthly  fee for the account which 
provided several benefits in return.
background
Miss C held a fee-free account with Barclays, which was opened in 1998. In February  2005  
her account  was upgraded to a fee-paid Graduate Additions account, and it was changed 
back to a fee-free  account  in November  2016.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Barclays mis-sold the packaged  account  to Mrs C 
and didnt recommend that Barclays should  pay her any compensation. Mrs C didnt agree 
so she asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Cs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mrs Cs complaint a lot of thought, I dont  think the Graduate Additions account  
was mis-sold to her. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mrs C was given a fair choice when she took her 
packaged bank  account.
Mrs C took the packaged  bank account by switching from a free account. She says that she 
was told she had to upgrade her account in order to keep her overdraft, which had been in 
place since her account was a fee-free account.
Im also mindful that Mrs C said in her complaint when  she initially complained  that she 
received a letter letting her know  that her account was to automatically become a Graduate 
Additions account. So whilst I dont doubt  that Mrs C has given her honest  recollections, it 
seems as though  theres some confusion about what  happened at the time her account  was 
changed. And in situations like this, I have to think about what I think  is most likely to have 
happened.
As Ive said,  Mrs C had already had an overdraft with her fee-free account. And I havent  
seen anything about her circumstances to suggest  that wouldnt have been available to her 
any longer. I do understand that Mrs C says she wasnt in a position to repay her overdraft 
completely, so she was forced into upgrading her account. But fee-free accounts with 
overdrafts were widely available at that time, and so on balance  I think  its more  likely that 
she chose to upgrade  her account knowing that she didnt have to.
Ref: DRN86362562I dont think that Barclays  made a personalised recommendation  when it sold the Graduate 
Additions account to Mrs C. So it didnt have to check if the account  was suitable for her.
But even so, Barclays had to give Mrs C enough  information about the account for her to 
decide if she wanted it. And like our adjudicator,  I think that Mrs C was interested in some of 
the benefits of the account  and chose it because of these benefits. 
In 2005, the main benefit of the Graduate Additions  account was an interest-free overdraft of 
up to £3,000, which was far greater than any of Barclays  other  packaged accounts. And 
having reviewed  Mrs Cs account usage  in the months leading  up to the sale, and 
afterwards, I can see that she was using her overdraft  fairly heavily, and regularly.  
The Graduate Additions account also included car breakdown cover  and mobile phone  
insurance as benefits. I can see that around that time Mrs C appears  to have been paying 
for a mobile phone contract, and her account transactions  also suggest she was a driver. 
Bearing in mind these  three benefits alone, I think Mrs C was likely attracted to them. And for 
the relatively small account  fee of £5 per month,  I think she couldve thought the account 
would be financially beneficial to her, given  her extensive overdraft usage. 
I fully accept that Mrs C may not have wanted  or used all the benefits of the Graduate  
Additions account, and with hindsight she might not feel it was good value for money to her. 
But this doesnt  mean Barclays mis-sold the account. 
Its possible that Barclays didnt tell Mrs C everything it should  have about the Graduate  
Additions account. But bearing  in mind the interest  savings shed have made on her 
overdraft, I havent  seen enough to make me think that Mrs C wouldnt still have  taken the 
account even  if Barclays had told her more about it. 
I want to reassure Mrs C that Ive looked at all the information I have about her complaint. 
And although I havent listed  every point individually, Ive thought about everything shes 
said. But having done so I dont think Barclays mis-sold the Graduate Additions account  to 
her. So I dont think it owes her any money.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs C but for the reasons  Ive explained,  I dont uphold  her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019. 
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8636256