K821x#15complaint
Miss B says Cash Converters UK Limited  (Cash  Converters)  irresponsibly lent to her. 
Miss B says she couldnt  make her loan repayments without undue difficulty whilst 
continuing to meet other debt repayment  obligations  and reasonable outgoing. She is now in 
a worse financial position as a result  of the borrowing. 
background
This complaint is about seven short-term loans  Cash Converters provided to Miss B between 
November 2012  and November 2015. Miss Bs borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 20/11/2012 17/04/2013 13 (fortnightly) £300.00 £158.50
2 17/04/2013 29/10/2013 13 (fortnightly) £350.00 £165.18
3 22/11/2013 10/04/2014 6 £400.00 £119.90
4 10/04/2014 09/10/2014 6 £400.00 £228.70
5 07/10/2014 23/04/2015 6 £450.00 £391.39
6 09/07/2015 18/11/2015 6 £400.00 £110.86
7 18/11/2015 11/08/2016 6 £900.00 £467.36
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
The case  was later reviewed and in that assessment our adjudicator thought  the complaint 
should be upheld  at an earlier stage in the borrowing chain, at loan two. 
Cash Converters didnt  provide anything further  to the assessment but asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for decision. So, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cash Converters needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Miss B could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cash Converters  should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
Ref: DRN81031452the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cash  Converters  was required to 
establish whether  Miss B could sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Miss B didnt comment on second the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt  be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, 
I wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loan was part of the borrowing 
relationship Miss B had with Cash Converters. So, it is something I will take into account 
when considering the other loans she took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint. After doing so, like the second 
adjudicator think  the complaint should be upheld from loan two onwards. Ill explain  why. 
Cash Converters has franchise businesses which also lends to its customers.  I think  it is 
reasonable to assume that information about  borrowing  given by those franchise businesses 
should be available to Cash Converters for consideration for when it decides to lend to its 
customers. 
We know that Miss B was taking cash advances from one of the franchise businesses  and 
had done so from before she started taking  short-term lending from Cash Converters. Her 
cash advance borrowing from the franchise  began  in May 2012. By the time Miss B took her 
second loan with Cash Converters  in April 2013  she had taken a total of 12 loans when 
taking into account  her other cash advance borrowing from the franchise business.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Cash Converters lending  history with Miss B, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Cash Converters should  reasonably  have seen that 
further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cash  Converters should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Ref: DRN81031453Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Bs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan two. I say this because:
At this point Cash Converters ought to have realised Miss B was not managing to 
repay her loans sustainably. Miss B had taken out 12 loans within 11 months with 
Cash Converters and its franchise  business.  So, Cash Converters ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Miss B was having to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Miss Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Miss Bs first loan (which was a cash advance  with the franchise) was for £40 and 
loan two with Cash Converters was for £350.  At this point Cash Converters ought to 
have known that Miss B was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Miss B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount  she owed Cash  Converters. 
Loan seven, with Cash Converters, was taken  out three and a half years  after 
Miss Bs first cash advance with the franchise business. And it was for a £900, the 
largest amount  she had borrowed. Miss B had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Cash Converters over an extended period.
I think that Miss B lost out because  Cash  Converters continued to provide borrowing from 
loan two onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Bs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive  credit intended for short-term  use over an extended period of 
time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Miss B borrowed was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Miss Bs ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans two to seven and Cash  
Converters should  put things right.
putting things right  what Cash  Converters  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans two to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan two onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans  two to seven should be removed 
from Miss Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cash Converters to take off tax from this interest.  Cash 
Converters must give Miss B a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN81031454my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Bs complaint.  Cash  Converters 
UK Limited  should  put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8103145