K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) 
policy that Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold  them  in 
December 2003.  They bought the policy at the same time as they were  arranging a 
mortgage in their joint names. They were both covered by the policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs M, who are represented by a third party, say they werent told anything  about the 
MPPI when  they were  taking out their mortgage  and it was added to their mortgage without 
their knowledge.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Because  Mr and Mrs M disagreed, their 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints  about the sale of PPI on our website and I 
have taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms mis-sale  complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive looked  very carefully at the information  and evidence  thats 
available. Ive also thought about whats more likely  to have happened  in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs M say they bought the MPPI at a meeting.  But from looking at their mortgage 
application it looks like when they filled it out they said they didnt want MPPI. However, I 
can also see that after YBS sent them an illustration for MPPI showing how much it would 
cost each of them to be covered, they decided to buy the cover.  I see that Mr and Mrs M 
then filled out and signed a separate MPPI  application form for cover, specifying the type 
and level of cover they wanted.
 
Ive also seen that the MPPI was shown  on the mortgage offer, which  also told them that it 
would be free for the first 6 months.  I therefore think its likely  that Mr and Mrs M knew 
they had a choice and that they didnt need  to have this type of cover with their mortgage 
if they didnt want  to. But they went ahead with the policy which meant that after the free 
period theyd begin paying for the policy alongside their mortgage. If Mr and Mrs M had any 
doubts or concerns they could have backed out of taking the MPPI when they received their 
welcome letter from YBS, telling them when the policy would start and how much it would 
cost after the first 6 months. 
All of makes  to conclude  that YBS didnt make  a recommendation  that Mr and Mrs M 
should buy the policy. But YBS still needed to give them  enough clear information  so that 
they could make an informed choice as to whether they wanted to buy the cover.
It follows that I think it was obvious  enough that YBS had Mr and Mrs Ms consent to set 
this policy  up. I think its likely they thought about  what they wanted and chose to have in 
place to cover  in the event that one of them might  not be able to work or could lose their job. 
Ref: DRN89129942From what  Ive seen Mr and Mrs M were both eligible for the MPPI cover and not caught 
by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost  being 
£14.49 - seems  to me to be in line with the type of cover that was being sold across the 
market at that particular  time and it was designed to be of use in unexpected circumstances.
It doesnt look as if either Mr M or and Mrs M were  entitled at the time to any employer  
benefits if they werent able to work due to accident  or sickness.  Given that their 
mortgage was secured  against their home and the consequences of not being able to 
make their repayments could have  been serious,  the MPPI  therefore seems like a good 
thing to have taken out. Under the policy terms, the policy would have paid out a monthly  
benefit for up to 12 months if either Mr M or Mrs M (or both of them)  needed to claim. 
And this would have  been  in addition to any other means they may have had to hand.  
Mr M has told us about a separate insurance policy hed arranged previously that could  
help with mortgage repayments if he lost his job. But from what Ive seen this didnt 
include benefits for accident and sickness. Also, the MPPI would have  paid out in 
addition to other insurance.  So it would be open to Mr and Mrs M to decide whether or 
not they wished to continue with the separate  policy. 
YBS also had to provide information  that was clear  so Mr and Mrs M could make  an 
informed decision about whether or not they wanted MPPI. I cant  say that Mr and Mrs M 
were told everything they shouldve been  told at the time. But from what Ive seen it 
seems likely that Mr and Mrs M would have been sent or given information explaining 
how the policy works. 
Taking everything into account  it follows that my final decision is that their policies were  
not mis-sold. So I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Ms mis-sale  complaint. Im sorry to 
disappoint them. 
my final decision
I dont uphold  this mis-sale complaint.  It follows that I dont require Yorkshire  Building  
Society to pay Mr and Mrs M compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 April 2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8912994