K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining that Aviva Insurance Limited  has held him responsibility for an accident 
after a claim was made on his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr C was involved in an accident on a roundabout with another car. Liability for the accident  
was in dispute. Mr C says that he was correctly proceeding around the roundabout but the 
other driver was in the wrong lane for their intended exit, so hit his car. The other driver says 
that Mr C was in the wrong lane and cut across their pathway.  Mr C had dashcam footage 
which he said showed that he wasnt at fault.
Aviva advised Mr C at the outset  that it thought the claim  was likely to be settled on a 50/50  
split liability and referred him to case law. Mr C didnt agree  with that as he said the case  law 
it referred to involved a motorcyclist. And he maintained he wasnt at fault and he provided 
Aviva with his dashcam  footage.
Aviva reviewed the footage and concluded that Mr C was at fault for the accident. It said that 
Mr C moved into the right-hand lane, then moved  back into the middle lane, inadvertently  
cutting across the path of the other drivers  car. So it conceded liability  and settled the other 
drivers claim. Mr C didnt agree with Avivas  conclusion and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She thought that Aviva had considered  all the 
evidence Mr C had provided, but she didnt think it had come to an unreasonable conclusion.  
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicator  and he said that he thinks Aviva initially offering a 
50/50 split liability  resolution to the other drivers  insurer had prejudiced  its ability to hold 
them fully at fault. He also provided a statement from the council which he said showed that 
he wasnt at fault for the accident.
As Mr C didnt  agree with the adjudicator, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whos  at fault for causing  an accident, 
as that is the responsibility of the courts. So this means I cant  say whether Aviva  has 
correctly assessed  the CCTV footage Mr C has provided or that it was right to say he was at 
fault for the accident or not. My role in this decision  is to look at whether Aviva has carried  
out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence  it has and come to a reasonable decision.
Mr Cs policy,  like all other car insurance  policies, allows Aviva to take over, defend or settle 
the claim.  So it was entitled to settle the claim, on the best terms it thinks  fit. And it has the 
ultimate and final say in how to settle  a claim. But it must exercise  this right fairly and 
reasonably.
Ive taken all of Mr Cs comments into account,  but I cant say that Aviva has acted 
unreasonably in this instance. I can see that Aviva  has reviewed the CCTV footage and 
Ref: DRN86080522assessed what it thinks was going to be the likely outcome had the claim proceeded to court.  
And I think it has reviewed it fairly  and reasonably. I note Mr C has provided a statement 
from his council about the route he was taking.  But this wasnt  available to Aviva at the time.  
And I still think that Aviva has considered all the evidence provided before coming to the 
conclusion it did. 
Finally, I appreciate Mr C thinks Aviva initially saying it would settle  the claim on a split 
liability basis  has prejudiced his claim.  But I disagree. Aviva chose to settle the claim in the 
way it did after a review  of the evidence available to it. And its initial offer to settle  the claim 
on a split liability basis didnt impact on this.
Ultimately I cant  say that it handled  the liability aspect of his claim unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8608052