K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection insurance  
(PPI). 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought two PPI policies  one in 1998  and one in 1999 - at the same time as 
taking out unsecured loans with Nationwide. They applied for the loans and PPI policies over 
the phone. 
The policies one-off  upfront premiums  were paid in advance by being added  to the loans 
(single premium) where  they attracted interest over the terms of the loans. Both loans were 
repayable over 60-month terms and the policies  terms matched those of the loans. 
On the 1998 loan, the PPI single  premium was £910.63. The monthly loan repayment was 
£112.62, with the PPI costing an additional  £20.51, making the total monthly repayment 
£133.13. 
On the 1999 loan, the PPI single  premium was £1,259.75. The monthly  loan repayment  was 
£156.08, with the PPI costing an additional  £28.09, making the total monthly repayment 
£184.17.
The policies provided cover for Mr B for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to their exclusions and limitations.  They offered to repay Mr and Mrs Bs monthly loan 
repayments for up to the remaining terms of the loans in the event of a successful disability 
claim and 12 months in the event of unemployment. 
At the time of both loans,  Mr B was employed  as a cleaner.  He has told us he was entitled to 
sick pay and Death-In-Service benefits. Mr B has said he was in good health  at the time of 
the sales. Other than Mrs Bs income, they had no other means of making the repayments 
on the loans if Mr B wasnt able to work.
Nationwide has sent us information  from its computer systems which shows  both loans had 
closed by 2005.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
Ref: DRN83643692The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint
These sales took place  in 1998 and 1999,  before the General  Insurance  Standards Council 
(GISC) published its code of practice  in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreements themselves concluded in 2005 or earlier. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN83643693The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policies and significant limitations and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN83643694Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional.  
These PPI policies were  sold in phone calls whilst Mr and Mrs B were  applying for their 
loans. Nationwide  dont  have a recording of these calls, which is not that surprising given 
how long ago they took place. But this means  I cant be sure what  was said to Mr and Mrs B 
about the PPI polices  during the calls. However, Nationwide has provided copies of the loan 
agreements which Mr and Mrs B signed  after these calls. And I can see that the PPI policies 
are clearly  described on these as optional and their costs are shown separately. 
So from what Ive seen,  together with what I know more  generally about how these  policies 
were sold on the phone by Nationwide at around this time, I think  the telephone agent would 
have discussed  the PPI with Mr and Mrs B and obtained their agreement to taking it before it 
was added to their loans.  I dont  think  its likely  the PPI would have been added unless this 
had been done. And I think Mr and Mrs B would have been likely to query why PPI shown as 
optional had been added if they hadnt already agreed to it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew the 
policies were optional  and they agreed  to take them out without undue pressure. But I can 
understand why they might not recall this now.
did Nationwide provide advice?
Mr and Mrs B say they dont remember whether the PPI policies were recommended  to 
them. Nationwide says no advise would  have been given to Mr and Mrs B during these 
sales. And from what I know about  Nationwides telephone sales process  at around these 
times, I think this is most likely to have been the case. 
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable 
Mr and Mrs B to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policies  were intended  to cover (that is that the policies would protect  their 
payments if Mr B was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment). I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the 
policies without any sense  of what the policies  were. And I think  Mr and Mrs B knew the 
amount of the single  premiums being  added to the loans; the amount of interest being added  
to the premiums, and the total cost and the monthly  cost of each (as this information was, in 
my view, sufficiently clear on the loan agreements Mr and Mrs B signed).  
Ref: DRN83643695But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the single premiums they paid went  to the 
business rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  
codes and standards of good industry  practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its 
fair and reasonable to conclude that Nationwide ought to have done  either.  
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to 
Mr and Mrs B. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policies, had Nationwide done 
things properly. 
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken them out and believes I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Mr and Mrs B had to weigh up in their own minds the cost 
of the policies against the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt 
insure against the risk of being unable to work. 
Ref: DRN83643696As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs B chose to take these policies out. So I consider  that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made these decisions based  on incomplete information. So what 
Mr and Mrs B thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs B has suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr and Mrs B were given about the costs of the policies 
was clear. But the information  about  other aspects of the policies, such  as the policies  
benefits, their limitations and their exclusions werent as clear as they should have been.  
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs B would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policies  would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient 
to meet  their loan payments) were significantly different  to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  when  they took out these policies were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or received treatment for in the 12 months  before the 
start date of the policy and which recurred in the first 12 months of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do any paid work.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policies werent  as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in these sales, might  
have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policies.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the times of these sales shows 
that the policies werent  fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  Mr B was eligible for 
their benefits  and they provided cover that, despite their limitations and exclusions, could 
have proved valuable to them should  the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  
seen any evidence to suggest Mr B would have been caught  by any of the significant 
exclusions  Mr B didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  and was in permanent  
employment. And the policies could have paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs Bs other 
means would  have lasted. So, I still think Mr and Mrs B had some good reasons to take the 
policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs B would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
Ref: DRN83643697If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr B was unable  to do any 
paid work,  it might have  played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr B was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up any other work would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
The policies did provide pro-rata refunds if they were cancelled early,  so the policies 
provided flexibility if Mr and Mrs B decided to repay the loans early  and cancel the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policies. The policies  were  sufficiently 
close to what its likely  they thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help 
them manage the consequences were  Mr B made redundant,  or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the limitations 
on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should  
be presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as result of these sales was the same position 
they would  have been in had the breaches or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
processes were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have 
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would 
not have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the alternative possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would still have  
Ref: DRN83643698taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policies they were buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put them in a better  
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8364369