K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that WorldPay (UK) Limited will not compensate it for the 
loss from the chargeback  of card payments.
background
A took two card payments  of £2,750.40 and £1,925.28 on consecutive days  over the phone.  
These were  processed as card not present  payments. They  were  disputed by the 
cardholder the next month.  His name  and details did not match those given to A by the 
person it was dealing with. And so the money was charged back  from A.
The adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that the payments 
were disputed under the chargeback scheme. The terms  of the agreement  with WorldPay 
state that A is responsible  for any invalid or fraudulent payments made  when the card is not 
present. WorldPay had processed  the payments correctly and cardholder names are not 
checked. It was entitled  to recover  the funds and to expect  A to have sufficient funds to meet 
any chargebacks.
A did not agree and wanted  its complaint  to be reviewed. The cardholder  has had a refund  
and A didnt think WorldPay had done enough to protect it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen what A has said about the circumstances in which the payments were taken. It 
thought that it was dealing  with a genuine  company  and despatched goods to its registered  
address. It has proof of delivery.  And it has provided a copy of a letter it later sent to the 
company it thought it was dealing with. In that letter it states that there were numerous 
difficulties with the process of making  payment. And that the person A first spoke to, gave a 
contact number for a person who was said to be a director  of the company. Payments were 
taken from that person  for the goods.
A had entered into a merchant processing  agreement with WorldPay in 2014. It is fairly  
bound by the terms and conditions and the related customer operating instructions. As the 
adjudicator has said these make clear  that A is responsible for the higher risks involved in 
taking payments when  the card is not present. For example at Section 3.2 of the customer 
operating instructions it states that Before deciding to accept  Cardholder  Not Present 
(CNP) transactions  you should consider all risks to your business because they carry a 
higher risk of fraud and you will be financially liable if a transaction is confirmed as invalid or 
fraudulent.
I dont find that WorldPay  made any error in processing the payment with the card details it 
was given by A. There was no guarantee of payment and this service does not have a role in 
setting out what  checks it should make. WorldPay had to deal with any chargeback requests 
in line with the relevant card scheme rules and these payments were  charged back. The 
genuine cardholder  said he had no involvement in the payments and A had no evidence to 
show that he did. The name of the person A thought it was taking a payment from differed. 
WorldPay looked at the delivery  details A had but these did not help show  that the payments 
were genuine  and that the chargebacks could be defended
Ref: DRN86720392I appreciate the impact  on A of its loss when these amounts were taken back from its 
account. WorldPay did not make a mistaken  in doing so at the time. And Im afraid I dont 
have any reasonable basis to say that WorldPay should compensate A for the loss.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672039