K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Abbey Life Assurance Company Limited - now part of Phoenix 
Life Limited (Abbey Life Assurance) mis-sold them a monthly premium payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1989 when they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs P complained to this Service. They said they arranged a joint mortgage  through 
Mr U who they say was employed by Abbey  Life Assurance. At the same time as arranging 
the mortgage, they said they bought a PPI policy and that the PPI was mis-sold to them by 
Mr U. So they conclude  the PPI policy was sold to them by Abbey Life Assurance through its 
representative and employee, Mr U.  
Abbey Life Assurance  told us it wasnt responsible  for the PPI sale but that it was sold by an 
independent credit broker called Mr U. Abbey Life Assurance does not accept  Mr U was its 
employee, nor was he selling PPI policies on its behalf. It said it was not responsible for any 
sales advice or representations made by Mr U. It did not have any documents from the time 
of the PPI sale and it concludes  it was not responsible for looking at this complaint.
Our adjudicator agreed with Abbey Life Assurance and he said it was not responsible for the 
PPI sale. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be 
looked at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in January where I explained why I did not think  Abbey Life 
Assurance was responsible for this PPI sale, so I could not uphold a PPI mis-sale complaint 
against it. A copy of my provisional  decision was sent to both parties  and they were invited to 
make any further comments.  Abbey Life Assurance had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs P 
added the following points:
They produced  copies of the Abbey Life mortgage PPI brochure;  pages from another 
of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage application forms dated in 1990  to show Mr U was 
working for Abbey Life; 
they still believe Mr U was Abbey Lifes branch employee because he sent the 
paperwork to an Abbey Life branch;
an extract from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  website showing Mr U was 
not an independent broker in 1989;
they wanted Abbey Life Assurance to confirm whether it paid Mr Us income tax and 
pension contributions;
they wanted to know  what documents Abbey Life Assurance  provided to prove it was 
not responsible  for the PPI sale through Mr Us actions. 
I have not seen any new evidence to make  me change the conclusions in my provisional 
decision but I will address  Mr and Mrs Ps points below. 
Both parties accepted Mr U most  likely completed Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage and PPI 
applications - so both parties were arguing about  Mr Us status at the time;
The extract from the FCAs website  does not show that Mr U was an appointed 
representative of Abbey  Life Assurance at the time of the PPI sale; 
Abbey  Life Assurance confirmed Mr U was a financial advisor who was self-
employed and sold Abbey Life products;  
Ref: DRN85862562Abbey  Life Assurance confirmed it did not pay Mr Us income tax and he did not have 
an employers pension due to his self-employed status;
evidence produced by Abbey Life Assurance may have been  limited  but I would not 
expect it to try to prove something  it did not do. The evidence I have seen from Mr 
and Mrs P and Abbey  Life Assurance  is not enough to show  it was responsible for 
the PPI sale through Mr Us actions or as its employee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether Abbey  Life Assurance is responsible for the sale of 
the PPI policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it shouldve  
done. If I dont think Abbey Life Assurance  was responsible  for the sale to Mr and Mrs P, 
then Im not able to consider a PPI mis-sale complaint against it because it didnt do 
anything wrong  at the time of the sale. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that Abbey Life Assurance sold the PPI policy  
to Mr and Mrs P. So it follows  that if Abbey Life Assurance did nothing wrong during the PPI 
sale, I will not uphold this PPI mis-sale  complaint against it. I know  this will disappoint Mr and 
Mrs P, so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs P about the sale  including the 
evidence they produced  after I issued  my provisional decision.  They  recall there was an 
initial home visit to discuss their first mortgage   and they produced  a copy  of pages  from a 
later mortgage application  form dated  in 1990  to help prove  Mr U worked for Abbey Life 
Assurance. They said they bought the PPI on Mr Us advice but they complain the PPI 
wasnt suitable for their financial  needs   so they said it was mis-sold. Mr U never  told them 
he was acting independently so they believed (and still believe) he was Abbey  Life 
Assurances employee, and selling them PPI on its behalf. Mr and Mrs P say they were  
making PPI payments to the Abbey  Life Group;  they also produced  Abbey Life letters and 
the mortgage offer - which  included the PPI - to show theyd bought Abbey Life Group 
products. So I can see why they believe  a company linked to the Abbey Life Group is 
responsible for the sale. 
However, Abbey Life Assurance told us it did not sell the PPI to Mr and Mrs P. It said Mr U 
was acting independently as an independent  credit broker and so he was not its employee 
and he was not acting on its behalf. It more recently confirmed that Mr U was self-employed 
at the time and so Abbey Life Assurance  was not responsible for paying  his income tax or 
pension contributions. Mr and Mrs P produced an extract from the FCA website about Mr U 
 but nothing on the extract  shows he was working  at Abbey Life Assurance  at the time of 
the PPI sale as its appointed representative or employee. So I have not seen any other 
evidence which might show Mr U was Abbey Life Assurances employee. This means there  
is no evidence I have  seen which would suggest  Abbey  Life Assurance is responsible for the 
PPI mis-sale through Mr Us actions as its employee. So having considered everything  weve  
been told, I dont think  Abbey Life Assurance is responsible for looking at this PPI complaint. 
Ref: DRN85862563As I think  Abbey Life Assurance was not responsible  for the PPI sale, it follows that it also 
was not responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am not going to uphold this 
PPI mis-sale complaint against Abbey Life Assurance.
I can see our adjudicator looked into all other possible avenues for Mr and Mrs P with a very 
thorough investigation. So  although I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs P  this Service 
will not be able to take this complaint any further  against Abbey Life Assurance.
my final decision
My final decision is that Phoenix  Life Limited  is not responsible for this PPI sale, so I do not 
uphold this PPI mis-sale  complaint against  Phoenix Life Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8586256