K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Mr B bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card online.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at a copy  of the internet sales process  Mr B wouldve used at the time of his sale. 
From that, I can see he wouldve been  given a brief overview of what  PPI was for and what  it 
cost. Then there were two options  to choose  from: one to buy PPI and one to turn it down. 
Both options seem equally  prominent,  and it doesnt  look like either of them wouldve been 
pre-selected. According to the electronic record of Mr Bs application,  he chose the option  to 
buy PPI. So I think that Canada Square  made Mr B aware he had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that he chose  to take it at the time  even if, understandably, he no longer  recalls 
doing so after so long. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so they didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. They did have  to give Mr B enough information to decide  if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible that the information Canada  Square  gave Mr B about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, Mr B chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations.
Mr B said he had some benefits  through work, but the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those 
benefits and covered him for significantly longer. And while I understand his family may have 
been willing  to help, there was always the chance  theyd  be unable to help when needed.  
And this policy  meant Mr B wouldnt have to ask his family to pay his credit card if he fell on 
difficult times. So the policy could have been  useful for Mr B if something  went  wrong. It 
doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for him, and if Mr Bs circumstances changed or 
he changed his mind he could cancel it at any time without a penalty. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put Mr B off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN82061862my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8206186