K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited,  trading as Health On-Line.co.uk, (AXA) 
refused to pay for his laser eye surgery under his private medical health insurance policy.
background
Mr B had a routine  eye test at his opticians, which revealed his angles were  narrow  and 
chambers were shallow  and so further investigation was recommended.  
Mr B made a claim on his private medical health  insurance policy  with AXA and saw a 
specialist, Mr H. Mr B was diagnosed  as being  a Primary Angle Closure Suspect (PACS). 
This means  the coloured part of the eye (the iris) blocks  water draining out of the eye as it 
should, raising eye pressure. The raised  pressure can damage the optic nerve  and may 
cause loss of sight. If this happens, its known as Primary Angle Closure glaucoma. This can 
be sudden and irreversible, with severe  pain. 
Mr H recommended  laser iridotomy treatment for Mr B. But AXA declined to cover this on the 
ground that it was preventative and this type of treatment is excluded  from Mr Bs policy.
Mr B disagreed and complained to AXA. Whilst AXA accepts that the treatment is one which 
is approved by NICE guidelines, it maintained the treatment was preventative  in this 
particular case.  AXA didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint so he came  to our service.
Our investigator looked into matters and thought the medical evidence suggests the 
recommended procedure was preventative treatment. And preventative  treatment isn't 
covered under Mr Bs policy. So she didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr B disagrees. He makes  a number of points  including the following: 
AXA has failed to show that this matter fits the definition of preventative  conditions  in 
the policy handbook. Or that it was outside  of the definition  of acute and chronic.
The risk of this condition leading to damage  to the optic  nerve and loss of sight  is 
considered sufficiently high for NICE  to recommend as standard  laser iridotomy to 
treat the condition.
The descriptions of preventative  treatment in the AXA policy booklet are not relevant 
to his circumstances  they all relate to preventative treatment a person undergoes to 
reduce the risk that they might develop a particular medical condition in the future. 
Here, Mr B says he already has the condition.
AXA has previously authorised an exploratory  angiogram and insertion of a stent to 
correct a blockage  in the artery and it has failed to show how this is different, in 
principle, to the laser  iridotomy treatment  which it wont now cover. 
Hes been told that, had Mr B been  referred  to the NHS,  a laser iridotomy is exactly 
what they wouldve  done. 
Mr B feels  this is an attempt by AXA to avoid fulfilling their financial obligations  under the 
contract.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN87150852my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr B that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
My role isnt to question  the treatment recommended  by a medical practitioner, but to assess 
the evidence and decide whether the action taken by AXA is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.  
Mr Bs policy  with AXA confirms that it doesnt  cover preventative treatment.  An extract from 
the policy is below:
Health insurance  is designed to cover  problems that youre experiencing at the 
moment, so it generally doesnt cover preventative treatment or screening tests.  
What is not covered for preventative treatment or screening tests?
We do not pay for:
- preventative treatment, such as preventative  mastectomy
- routine preventative examinations and check-ups

Mr Bs eye test was routine, not prompted by any particular concern. The notes  from his 
original consultation  with the optician say he had no symptoms. And AXA agreed for him to 
have a consultation with an expert as a result  of the opticians concerns. So I think  AXA had 
an open mind at that point about  covering his treatment.
Mr H says in a letter to AXA Followingexamination,  I diagnosed Mr B as a primary angle  
closure suspect (PACS).  If untreated  this may result  in irreversible  loss of vision
I think this statement from Mr H is clear  the laser iridotomy was recommended  to prevent 
Mr Bs eyes  deteriorating from being  a PACS  to the primary angle  closure  stage, which in 
turn risks the acute episode and loss of vision. This therefore fits into the definition  of 
preventative treatment.
Medical professionals may recommend all manner  of treatments and therapies, but that 
doesnt mean they will all be covered by a medical  insurance policy.  Policies have different 
levels of cover and exclusions.  Here,  Mr Bs policy specifically excludes preventative 
treatment.
I accept the examples of preventative treatments described in the policy  booklet  arent  
relevant to Mr Bs claim e.g. a mastectomy. But I dont agree  I could  reasonably say that 
Ref: DRN87150853AXA must include examples of every kind of preventative treatment. Or that it cant refuse to 
cover a treatment if its not in the list of examples. 
As Mr B hadnt yet been diagnosed with primary angle closure  glaucoma,  and was 
apparently not suffering any other symptoms that were giving him any problems, I think  its 
reasonable to conclude  that the laser iridotomy treatment was preventative and, therefore, 
excluded under the terms of the policy. I accept  that NICE guidelines  suggest  that laser  
iridotomy is an appropriate way to treat intermittent angle closure and angle closure 
glaucoma. However, from the evidence Ive seen, Mr B wasnt  diagnosed with either of these 
conditions. He was instead diagnosed as being a PACS  that is a primary angle closure 
suspect. Whilst I accept  this can be a precursor to intermittent angle  closure  and angle  
closure glaucoma, it isnt always the case.
Mr B says that he had previously received  cover under his policy for an exploratory  
angiogram and insertion of a stent to correct a blockage in the artery.  He says the procedure  
was preventative and he doesnt see how the laser  iridotomy is any different. He also says 
that hes been told this procedure is carried out as a matter of course  under the NHS.
I cannot comment on the procedure in respect  of Mr Bs stent  as I do not know  the full 
details. However, neither  this nor what he has said about the likely  approach  taken by the 
NHS leads  me to change my opinion in this particular matter. The decision I need to make  
here is whether  the treatment should  be covered  by AXA under the terms of Mr Bs policy.  
Even so, each case turns on its own facts.
I understand Mr B wouldnt want to delay the recommended treatment to see if his eyes  got 
worse as this could lead to his sight being  impaired. Having the laser iridotomy  treatment 
makes it less likely  hell develop glaucoma or have acute episodes. And I suspect this is a 
decision that many people would make if they were in a similar  situation.  However,  having  
said that, it remains my view this is preventative treatment  and isnt covered under the terms 
of his policy. It follows that AXA hasnt acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining  his claim.
I know Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute  with AXA  can do for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8715085