K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Miss C are unhappy with how theyve been treated by Mortgage Agency Services 
Number Two Limited (trading as Verso). Mr T and Miss C are represented  in this complaint 
by Mr C.
background to complaint
In 1998 Mr T and Miss C were buying  a property from Miss Cs parents.  Whilst  the title was 
registered in joint names,  the mortgage broker they appointed to act for them applied for the 
Verso mortgage loan account in Mr Ts sole name. A mortgage offer was issued - and the 
mortgage loan account completed  - on that basis.
I understand Mr T moved  out of the property in 2001  and since then Miss C had been  paying 
the mortgage. Theres been legal  action over the years due to missed  payments.
In 2016 Verso  said it couldnt accept payments from - or discuss the mortgage loan account  
with - Miss C as she wasnt named on it. Since then solicitors have been instructed on both 
sides and a stalemate  was reached  in relation to the named parties.
In January 2019 I issued a decision. In that I explained the complaint would need to be split 
in two as under our rules  Miss C wasnt a customer of Verso as she wasnt named on the 
mortgage loan account, but that we could consider a complaint brought by her (with Mr T) 
about the security  she gave for Mr Ts mortgage  loan.
This decision only deals  with the complaint brought by Mr T and Miss C as the co-owners of 
the property put up as security for the Verso mortgage debt. It wont cover anything about  
the mortgage loan account as only Mr T can complain about that under our rules.
Our investigator broke  this complaint down into three main points;
Miss Cs legal costs,
the service provided to Miss C in relation to the security (but not the mortgage loan 
account), and
the final response letter sent to Mr T that included personal information  about Miss C.
The investigator didnt  think the first two points should be upheld, but she felt the final 
response letter contained inappropriate information. For that she felt a payment of £100 
compensation to Miss C was fair.
Mr T and Miss C didnt agree with the investigators  assessment and so its been passed to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr T and Miss C wont  take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  
dispute resolution service,  and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the 
complaint.
Ref: DRN85991482I have no doubt  that this is very important for Mr T and Miss C but although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This service  is impartial  between, and 
independent from,  consumers and businesses. What this means  is that we dont represent  
either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or take directions on how a complaint 
will be looked at.
Saying that, the main thrust of Mr T and Miss Cs complaint is something we cant  consider 
as I explained  in my previous decision;  that being  the fact Miss C isnt named on the 
mortgage loan account. The difference between being named on the mortgage  loan account 
with Verso and the giving of the security for that mortgage loan may seem an artificial and 
non-legal distinction to Miss Cs solicitors, but Im bound by our rules and that is a distinction  
they make.
The basis  I have to decide this complaint under is that Verso  has a mortgage  loan account  in 
Mr Ts sole name over a property jointly  owned by Mr T and Miss C. The fact that wasnt  
what Mr T and Miss C say they intended  isnt something I can consider. Saying that, I must  
take issue with Mr Cs claim that this was a mess that Verso  created. Whilst I cant make a 
finding on what happened back then (as Ive no power to do so) its clear the mortgage loan 
application was made by Mr T and Miss Cs broker in Mr Ts sole name and Mr T and 
Miss Cs solicitor admitted  it made  a mistake  in not telling  Verso  that the property was to be 
owned in joint names.  Both of those parties  were appointed by  and were acting on behalf  
of  Mr T and Miss C, not Verso.
This leads  me onto Miss Cs legal fees that she thinks Verso  should cover. In order to make 
an award against Verso I have to first reach a finding that Verso  did something wrong that 
led to those costs  being  incurred. So Id have to decide Verso  did something wrong which  
led to the mortgage loan account being  in Mr Ts sole name  and the property being owned in 
joint names. Unfortunately for Miss C thats  not a finding I can reach. 
Theres no doubt that the mortgage loan account with Verso is in Mr Ts sole name and the 
property is owned  in joint names. That is a simple statement of fact regardless of any legal 
arguments Miss Cs solicitor puts forward about the standard security and other paperwork 
and what they mean.  As Ive explained, under  our rules I cant look at what went wrong that 
led to the mortgage and security being  set up that way so I cant  say Verso did anything 
wrong. It follows  that if I cant say Verso did anything  wrong then I cant  award any costs 
against Verso.
It may be Miss C also felt she wanted legal advice because of the threat of eviction due to 
arrears on the underlying  mortgage loan account  in Mr Ts name. Thats reasonable, but not 
something Verso has to cover. The mortgage loan account is in arrears and has been  on 
and off for a great many years. Under the security  put forward by Mr T and Miss C, Verso 
has the right to take the matter to court to ask it be given possession of the property due to 
the arrears, which  (if granted)  could lead to Miss Cs eviction. If Miss C felt that was unfair  
then she could put her arguments to the court  for its consideration. But having looked  at the 
conduct of the mortgage loan account I cant say it was unreasonable  for Verso  to take legal 
action. As Ive not found Verso has done  anything wrong in taking legal action due to the 
arrears on the account I cant  make  any award of costs  against Verso, so I cant order it to 
pay Miss Cs legal costs.
Ref: DRN85991483Ive looked at the contact notes and any correspondence sent to Miss C that relates to the 
security (rather than the mortgage loan account). Having done  so it seems the customer  
service issues  that Miss C is unhappy about  relate to the mortgage  loan account  - in that 
Verso wont accept payments from her and wont discuss the account with her  rather  than 
about the security. As I can only consider  a complaint here about the security I cant see 
anything Verso has done wrong. 
As far back as 2017 Verso agreed to add Miss C to the mortgage  loan account if she 
provided certain information and documentation  but thats not been forthcoming. Verso  also 
explained it would have an impact on Miss C  such as arrears being  reported to her credit 
file  so said she could benefit  from seeking  independent advice on whether it was the right 
course of action. I would  reiterate that here. If Miss C truly does want  to be added  to the 
mortgage loan account, then Verso has put forward what seems to me a fairly  
straightforward way for that to happen.  But Id add my warning that Miss C needs to 
understand the full implications of being  added, and set that against the benefits as she sees  
them. For clarity, any costs Miss C may incur in taking independent advice would be hers to 
bear, and cant be reclaimed from Verso.
Finally, Ive looked at the final response letter Verso sent Mr T in which it set out personal 
information Miss C had told it about  her circumstances. As our investigator  explained,  that 
level of detail wasnt needed and a more  generic  explanation could have been given. Having 
considered everything  I agree with our investigator that a payment of £100  compensation to 
Miss C would be appropriate in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and order Mortgage  Agency Services  Number Two Limited  
(trading as Verso) to pay £100  compensation to Miss C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Miss C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8599148