K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Allianz Insurance Plc took too long to deal with a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy  and then refused to provide  cover  for him.
background
In June 2015 Mr A was involved  in a road traffic  accident. He instructed solicitors to act for 
him on a conditional fee (no win no fee) agreement to sue the other driver for damages for 
personal injury. Under the terms of this agreement,  his solicitors would deduct 25% of his 
compensation if he won the case  to cover their costs.
In February 2018  Mr A contacted Allianz  saying he wanted to make a claim on his legal 
expenses policy. He asked if Allianz would cover  his court  fees and the 25% deduction. 
Allianz said it would consider  the claim and referred  it to one of its panel firms of solicitors,  
but Mr A then said he would prefer to continue using his own solicitors.
Allianz said it would need further information  from his solicitors before confirming whether 
cover would be provided. After some  initial correspondence  with his solicitors  Allianz  didnt 
hear from them again until September 2018. Allianz  said they still hadnt provided all the 
information it needed, in particular to explain discrepancies in the information  Mr A had 
provided about his case.
Mr A was unhappy about how long it was taking to deal with his claim and complained  to 
Allianz. In its final response, Allianz said any delay  was due to his solicitors failure to provide 
information. And it said cover wouldnt be provided  because there were too many 
discrepancies in the information Mr A had given, which his solicitors  hadnt been able to 
explain.
Mr A then brought  his complaint to this service,  but our investigator said he thought Allianzs  
decision not to provide  cover was fair. Mr A disagreed and requested an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means  it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. This is common in legal expenses 
policies and means the insurer doesnt have to meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be 
successful. 
The policy terms also say the policyholder  must at all times give his solicitors and Allianz a 
complete,  accurate and truthful account of all of the circumstances that are relevant to your 
legal action that you are aware of, or should have been aware of. And if doesnt meeting 
this requirement, Allianz may refuse the claim.
Allianz said Mr A had breached the policy terms because the information he had provided 
about his claim was inconsistent and neither he nor his solicitors had been able to explain 
the inconsistencies. 
Ref: DRN88854712Allianz set this out in detail in its response to Mr As complaint. I wont detail everything here, 
but for example, Allianz said Mr A had given different accounts of whether  he was working or 
not at the time of the accident  and how much  time hed had off work.  And he had said he 
hadnt had previous accidents or injuries  but it was clear from his medical notes that he had. 
There were also discrepancies in the account  about  what effect his injuries would have in the 
longer term. Allianz  said there might be explanations for the inconsistencies but if so, they 
hadnt been provided. And it noted  that after three years, the solicitors hadnt  been able to 
confirm what losses he was claiming.
I dont think Allianz was responsible for any delay  considering the claim. Im satisfied the 
information Mr A provided was inconsistent and there were discrepancies.  Allianz  asked his 
solicitors to clarify various  points and was entitled to wait for this before making a decision.
I dont think Mr A complied with the requirement  to provide a complete and accurate 
account. But I need to consider what effect  this had.
Although the solicitors  would decide how to deal with the legal proceedings, it is ultimately  
for Allianz  to decide whether cover should be provided, taking into account  what  the 
solicitors have said about the case.  The other side had admitted liability for the accident, but 
they were disputing the losses claimed  by Mr A. So it was important  that his losses were 
supported by the evidence. 
Allianz was concerned that the solicitors hadnt been able to quantify  the claim, and Mr As 
credibility would be questioned because  of all the inconsistencies in his account. Allianz  said 
it was for the solicitors  to ensure the discrepancies could be overcome, but it was entitled to 
satisfy itself that they would be able to do so. And the solicitors  hadnt explained how they 
would overcome these  issues. Allianz didnt want to take on the risk of covering his claim in 
these circumstances.
Taking all of this into account,  my view is that it was reasonable  for Allianz  not to provide 
cover.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885471