K821x#15complaint
Mrs N has complained about short-term loans granted to her by CashEuroNet  UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mrs N says she couldnt afford  these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether she could afford them when she took them out. 
background
QuickQuid agreed eleven  short-term loans  for Mrs N between  April 2014 and August 2017. 
Each loan was repayable over between one and three months.
Mrs N topped-up loan 11 on two occasions. This is where she took out further borrowing 
under the same agreement, before paying back the initial amount borrowed. Ive set out a 
summary of the lending  below.
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount (£)no. of instalments 
duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 15/04/2014 100 3 130
2 25/10/2014 100 3 130
3 20/02/2015 100 2 124
4 22/05/2015 50 1 66
5 22/07/2015 100 3 124
6 05/03/2016 100 3 126
7 16/06/2016 100 3 126
8 15/11/2016 150 3 188
9 30/12/2016 100 1 126
10 05/04/2017 100 2 126
11 05/08/2017 200 3 251
11a (top-up) 18/08/2017 100 3 345
11b (top-up) 23/09/2017 83 2 313
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mrs Ns complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. He felt the checks QuickQuid carried  out on loans  1 to 4 were 
proportionate, but that the checks carried out from loan 5 onwards werent.
He thought that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate checks from loan 5 onwards, it 
wouldve concluded that loans 8  11 (including the top-ups on loan 11) wouldve been 
unaffordable for Mrs N, and would not have agreed to them.
QuickQuid disagreed with the findings. And Mrs N raised no new arguments in response to 
the adjudicators  assessment. So as no agreements been  reached at this stage, the case  
has come  to me, as an ombudsman, for a final decision. As it seems  loans 1  7 are no 
longer in dispute, my decision  will focus on QuickQuids decision to lend from loan  8 onwards. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and   
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.  
Ref: DRN82091132Our adjudicator, having looked  at everything, found  that QuickQuid didnt carry out 
proportionate checks for some of Mrs Ns applications. And based on his review, he thought  
that QuickQuid should  refund the interest  and charges  Mrs N paid from loan 8 onwards. 
These findings were  set out in some  detail in a view letter  to the lender. 
QuickQuid initially said it carried out proportionate  checks. In response  to the adjudicators  
view it also said,  that it conducted  appropriate  and proportionate affordability assessments, 
including validation of Mrs N's income and expenses before funding  the last 9 loans. It said it 
started implementing changes to its affordability assessment in June  2014,  and by the time 
Mrs N took her last nine loans, it had implemented an affordability review consistent with the 
FCA Handbook, and that was in place at the time it received  authorisation by the FCA.
QuickQuid raised this argument in both its initial submissions, and in response  to the 
adjudicators assessment.  However,  our job is to look not only into the rules and regulations  
set by the regulator at the time of borrowing but also the law, good industry practice  and all 
the available  evidence and arguments  to help us decide whether we think  what  the business 
has done is right or not. And in this case I don't think QuickQuid  was right to provide  Mrs N 
with some of the loans  she borrowed  from 2015  onwards.
This service has responded to QuickQuid on the above generic argument directly and 
through earlier final decisions. So Im not going to expand on this point any further here, 
though I have considered it alongside everything else in making my decision. 
I would remind QuickQuid  at this point of the FCA guidance in how complaints are to be 
dealt with promptly and fairly (my emphasis) by businesses. In particular DISP 1.3.2A [G] 
which says that businesses procedures for complaint handling should  
ensure that lessons learned as a result of determinations by the Ombudsman are effectively 
applied in future complaint handling,  for example by:
(1) relaying a determination by the Ombudsman  to the individuals in the respondent who 
handled the complaint and using it in their training and development;
(2) analysing any patterns in determinations by the Ombudsman concerning  complaints 
received by the respondent and using this in training  and development of the individuals  
dealing with complaints in the respondent; and
(3) analysing guidance produced by the FCA , other relevant regulators and the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and communicating it to the individuals dealing with complaints  in 
the respondent.
So my decision will focus on the specifics of Mrs Ns complaint and what both parties have 
said about this.
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs N 
could repay  her loans  in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs Ns income and expenditure. With this in mind, 
in the early stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN82091133But certain factors might  point to the fact that a lender should fairly and reasonably have  
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These would 
include where:
a consumers income is low or the amount to be repaid takes up a substantial portion 
of their income 
the amount,  or amounts, due to be repaid are higher 
there is a larger number and/or frequency of loans 
the period  of time during which a customer has been provided with borrowing is long.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that there  are three  key questions  for me to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mrs Ns complaint. These  questions  are:
1.Did QuickQuid, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mrs N would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would 
those checks have  shown that Mrs N would have  been  able to do so?
2.Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Mrs Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful?
3.Did QuickQuid act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
1. Did QuickQuid, each  time it lent, complete  reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy  
itself that Mrs N would be able to repay in a sustainable way? If not, would those checks 
have shown that Mrs N would have been able to do so?
As loans  1 - 7 are no longer in dispute, I havent  considered the proportionality of the checks  
QuickQuid carried out on these loans as part of my assessment. And I havent  recreated 
individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 8 onwards either - because  I dont 
think that it is necessary  to do so. Ill explain why.
2. Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall  pattern of 
lending increase Mrs Ns indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise 
harmful?
Ive looked at the overall pattern of lending.  Ive  looked to see if there  was a point at which 
QuickQuid should  reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so QuickQuid should  have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further 
lending. Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ns case, I think that this point was 
reached when  Mrs N applied for loan 8. I say this because:
the amount  Mrs N was borrowing was starting to increase, and QuickQuid ought to 
have realised it was likely her indebtedness was increasing unsustainably 
Mrs N wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed QuickQuid. And was 
in effect paying large amounts of interest to service this debt over an extended period
Ref: DRN82091134Mrs N had rolled over repayments on previous loans. 
I think that Mrs N lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing  from loan 8 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ns indebtedness by allowing  
her to take expensive  credit over an extended period of time
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mrs Ns 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans
So Im upholding  Mrs Ns complaint about  loans  8 to 11 (including  the top-ups on loan 11), 
because the overall  pattern of lending  increased her indebtedness  in a way that was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful and she lost out as a result.
Did QuickQuid act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some  other way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude QuickQuid acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs N in some 
other way.  
So Im upholding  Mrs Ns complaint from loan 8 onwards.  
what QuickQuid  needs to do to put things right
refund  the interest and charges Mrs N paid on loans 8 to 11 (including any top-ups 
on these loans);
pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple  a year from the date they were paid to the 
date of settlement*;
the number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 8 to 11 (including any top-ups  on 
those loans) should be removed from Mrs Ns credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN82091135my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mrs Ns complaint in part. 
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC to put things  right as described  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8209113