K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains about Pensionhelp Limited (Pensionhelp). Shes  unhappy with the advice 
she received to transfer benefits from a final salary  occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) to a 
personal pension  plan (PPP). Mrs B considers that the advice was suitable.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 9 September 2020. Ive recapped the background below:
Mrs B and her husband were members of a Local Government Pension  Scheme  (LGPS)  
which they could  take retirement  benefits from age at 66. Mrs Bs LGPS  was worth £20,467, 
while her husbands  was worth £19,828. In addition to her LGPS,  Mrs B had also accrued 24 
years worth  of preserved benefits under her former employers OPS. The details of the OPS 
were as follows:
The Cash Equivalent  Transfer Value  (CETV)  as at 19 January 2018  was £293,797
The earliest Mrs B could take benefits without an early  retirement  reduction  was at 
age 60  the schemes Normal  Retirement Age (NRA) 
Retirement benefits comprised of a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) and 
scheme pension  which  were  subject to increases  of up to 3 or 5% a year,  depending  
on when benefits  were built up
In the event of Mrs Bs death,  a spouse/dependants pension  worth 50% of the value 
of her pension would be payable
In January 2018 Mrs B approached her existing financial adviser, who Ill refer to as Adviser  
R, for advice about her OPS. Adviser R completed  a financial review which recorded the 
following:
Mrs B was 58 years old and her husband  was the same age; they both expected to 
retire at age 65
Mr and Mrs B had three daughters between them;  none  were financially dependent 
Mrs B worked as a senior administrator earning  £21,000 per annum. Mr B earned 
£19,500 per annum  
The approximate value of Mr and Mrs Bs home  was £90,000.  There  was no 
outstanding mortgage
Mrs B had no savings but held almost £6,000 in shares in her former  employers 
company
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly outgoings were  around  £1,300. They had an outstanding 
loan of £25,000 due to end in July 2021; the monthly  repayment was around £600.  
There were no other debts 
Mrs B had an up to date Will and mortgage level term life insurance policy  
Ref: DRN89065052Mrs B had experienced  several  health  issues. So, she wanted to reduce her working 
hours over the next two years. Mrs B anticipated her income changing in the near 
future but didnt  expect to retire shortly
Mrs Bs objectives were to achieve higher long-term returns, make home repairs  of 
around £6,600  and pay off her outstanding loan
In order of importance Mrs B ranked the features of her OPS in the following order  (with 1 
being her top priority): 1. Greater  flexibility in how I can take my benefits; 2. Maximising my 
lump sum with a potential  loss of income; 3. Maximising income with potential  loss of 
guarantees; 4. Guaranteeing my spouses death benefits; 5. Guaranteeing retirement 
benefits lump sum and income.
As Adviser R wasnt authorised to transact pension transfers, he referred  Mrs B to 
Pensionhelp and provided it with a copy of its financial review. Mrs B never met with 
Pensionhelp, so all correspondence took place via post and telephone. In April 2018,  
following a telephone conversation and some information gathering,  Pensionhelp sent Mrs B 
its Defined Benefit Report and Recommendation. The purpose  of the report was to provide 
a review of [Mrs Bs] current  pension benefits and to consider the potential  implications  of 
transferring these benefits. Amongst other things, Pensionhelps report  said the following:
Under the heading Background
Upon reaching  State  Pension  Age (age 66) it was expected that Mrs B would  receive 
£7,290 per annum as her state  pension entitlement, with her husband receiving 
£7,570 per annum. But this could be less if they stopped working before their full 
entitlement had been earned
Mr and Mrs B expected to accrue benefits  in their LGPS until their pensions were 
payable at age 66
Under the heading Aims and Priorities
Mrs B indicated  her priorities were to achieve greater flexibility with how she took 
benefits; to maximize  her potential TFC with a potential loss of income and to 
maximize [her] income with a potential loss of guarantees
Mrs B wanted to take maximum TFC now  to clear her loan and have an emergency 
fund
Mrs Bs OPS  was important; she was reluctant  to take undue  risks with it. While 
flexibility would be nice, Mrs B didnt  wish to transfer if she was unlikely to match 
her OPS  benefits from the new scheme
Mrs B said she understood the implication  of transferring away from a guaranteed 
income and that there was no guarantee the new scheme would match  the benefits 
offered by her OPS
Mrs B expected her retirement expenditure to be the same as it currently  was, even 
after repayment of outstanding debts   around £1,300  per month  (£15,600 per 
annum)
Ref: DRN89065053Regarding death  benefit requirements,  Mrs B preferred to leave  a lump sum death  
benefit rather than an ongoing income  after she died 
Under the heading Your Attitude to Risk
Based  on a completed risk profile  questionnaire, Mrs Bs risk profile was assessed as 
Balanced
Mrs B had a low capacity for loss,  meaning  she couldnt afford for the investment 
to not meet  [her] objectives as failure  to do so could  have significant consequences 
()
Regarding the emergency fund provision, Pensionhelp generally recommended  the 
equivalent of at least 3 months of essential  expenditure 
The report  set out Mrs Bs OPS options  if, at age 58, she took benefits immediately, with an 
early retirement reduction applied:
Option  1 Option  2
Tax Free Cash N/A £55,461.10
Total pension £10,581.96 per annum £8,319.36 per annum
Spouses pension £5290.98 per annum £5290.98 per annum
Mrs B could also take a smaller TFC sum and receive a higher pension.  The same  spouses 
pension would apply.  
In terms of death benefits, the report confirmed that unlike her OPS,  Mrs B could, with a 
PPP, nominate a beneficiary for a lump  sum.  Pensionhelp noted she wished to pass on any 
residual benefits  to her chosen beneficiaries if she passed away as she didnt want to lose 
the value of the benefits shed saved.
Instead of taking benefits from her OPS, the report said Mrs B could transfer her OPS CETV 
to a private plan, where she could take benefits  as an annuity  or via drawdown. Pensionhelp  
said the advantages of this were flexibility, ease of administration and increased investment 
options.
The report  set out Mrs Bs immediate potential annuity options:
Annuity £7,571 per 
annum (increasing at 
3% per annum) 
with a 5-year 
guaranteeOR Reduced annuity £5,549 per 
annum increasing at 3% 
per annum) with 
a 5-year 
guarantee
Maximum TFC £73,449
Regarding drawdown,  Pensionhelps report said the following:
After transferring and taking TFC,  Mrs B could wait and make one income withdrawal 
of £15,600 (her annual expenditure)  at age 65. After this, at age 66, Mr and Mrs Bs 
Ref: DRN89065054state and LGPS  pensions  would  start and meet  their income  needs.  Mrs B could 
reduce her drawdown  withdrawals to £5600 per annum and income  from her and her 
husbands other pensions could meet the rest of their income needs
Having carried out a cash flow model, on the basis Mrs Bs fund grew by 5.07% per 
annum and that she withdrew £5,600 per annum, her fund could last beyond  her 
100th birthday
Pensionhelps conclusion didnt take into account any additional benefits  Mr and Mrs B might 
accrue in their LGPS plans from the time of its report up to them  reaching age 66.
Under the heading Recommendation Pensionhelp said:
Although Mrs B didnt  intend to retire until age 65, she wanted to access  her OPS  
TFC now
Instead of taking retirement benefits  directly from her OPS, Mrs B should  take her 
maximum TFC entitlement (£73,449.25) and repay her outstanding loan; pay for 
home repairs and build an emergency fund  doing these  things would increase Mrs 
Bs disposable income and relieve  her of a significant debt
After taking TFC,  Mrs B should transfer  her residual funds to a Collective Retirement 
Account (CRA) and invest in the Cirilium  Dynamic Passive  Portfolio. Although past 
performance didnt  guarantee future  performance,  the funds annual return  over the 
previous 3 years had been 11.21%. Given her limited  investment experience,  Mrs B 
should, going forward, speak to Adviser R to review her plan and investment
Mrs B would have greater flexibility with a drawdown arrangement; she could make 
withdrawals over the shorter term if she decided to reduce  her working hours
Transferring would  mean Mrs Bs full fund was available as a potentially  tax-free  
lump sum death benefit to her nominated  beneficiaries
Moving to income drawdown was a higher  risk option; her income would be subject 
to market performance and could  be completely  eroded. Income  drawdown  was also 
complex, and it was essential to review and monitor Mrs Bs plan on an ongoing 
basis. Because of this it was important she was entirely comfortable  with managing 
[her] own investments
the risks associated with the transfer were,  the loss of all guarantees; the transfer, in 
all likelihood, being irreversible and the new arrangement potentially  resulting in an 
overall loss
Mrs B accepted Pensionhelps  recommendation and agreed  to pay it a fee of 2.85% of the 
transfer value  (3.8% of the fund value after TFC was taken)  - £8,373.21. Mrs B also agreed 
to pay Adviser R an annual fee of 0.5% of her fund value  for ongoing advice.
Mrs B completed the relevant paperwork and returned it to Adviser R who, after checking it, 
forwarded it to Pensionhelp.  Mrs Bs transfer  application was later processed and her OPS  
CETV (£303,856) was sent to her CRA provider on 24 April 2018; she later received her full 
25% TFC entitlement.
Ref: DRN89065055On 16 May 2018 Mrs B met with a new financial adviser Ill refer to as Adviser  S. In 
September 2018 Adviser S raised a complaint on Mrs Bs behalf about Pensionhelps  
advice. In summary he said:
Mrs B stopped working in March 2018 with the strong likelihood  shed be retiring  
immediately
The option of taking early retirement from her OPS wasnt something  that was 
explained to Mrs B.
At the time of Pensionhelps  advice, Mrs B had been signed  off work with depression  
following the passing of her mother the previous year. As she wasnt in a fit state  to 
work, it was fair to conclude Mrs B wasnt in the right frame  of mind to consider 
transferring her OPS
Pensionhelp  only had one call with Mrs B and didnt  provide her with enough 
assistance to ensure  she understood its advice
Mrs B outlined  a need for around  £40,000 TFC to pay off a loan, make home repairs  
and go travelling. He questioned why she was advised to take her entire TFC 
entitlement 
Mrs B was an unsophisticated client with a low capacity for loss; advising her to 
transfer her OPS was poor advice
Pensionhelp didnt uphold Mrs Bs complaint  and sent its final response  on 19 October  2018.  
In summary  it said:
It advised Mrs B based  on the facts presented to it at the time; it wasnt made  aware 
shed given up work in March 2018.  But had it known this, it wouldve still have 
advised Mrs B to transfer her OPS given the income needs shed have as a result of 
not working
The early retirement  option from the OPS was made clear to Mrs B in its suitability 
report
Although aware Mrs B was taking medication  for depression,  there was no indication 
she was unable to make a decision about  the OPS transfer.  It hadnt  been aware of 
the passing of her mother
Along  with Adviser R, it wouldve been  happy  to answer any queries Mrs B had about 
the paperwork she was provided with. Pensionhelp was never  made aware of any 
queries Mrs B had
It advised Mrs B to take her full TFC entitlement to meet her needs for debt 
repayment, home improvements and providing an emergency  fund. It could also 
assist her income needs if she reduced  her working  hours
Although its questionnaire  indicated Mrs B had a low capacity for loss, its analysis 
was based on her and her husbands  overall pension  provision. This indicated she 
had capacity to consider  the transfer  of her OPS
Ref: DRN89065056Unhappy with Pensionhelps response, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the matter and said the complaint should  be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Without carrying out a transfer value analysis (TVAS), Pensionhelps advice was 
flawed. Mrs B couldnt make an informed  decision  about the risks posed by 
transferring without knowing the level of growth  required (critical yield)  for the new 
scheme to match her OPS benefits
There wasnt any immediate need  to transfer, such that Mrs B couldnt wait to take 
benefits at her OPS  NRA  age 60. If Mrs B really  needed  access to money 
Pensionhelp shouldve advised her to take benefits directly from her OPS.  This way 
she couldve retained the valuable guarantees attached to her OPS  and met her 
objectives of paying off her loan, making house  repairs and having an emergency 
fund. Mrs B didnt need the full TFC amount Pensionhelp advised her to take
Mrs B was vulnerable  at the time of the advice and not in a position  to make complex 
financial decisions. He didnt  think Pensionhelp provided Mrs B with the clear  and 
easily understandable advice shed  needed
The investigator set out how Pensionhelp should put matters right.  Mrs B responded and 
agreed with the investigator. However,  Pensionhelp disagreed. In summary it said:
The investigators view of Mrs Bs vulnerability  was based on information that wasnt 
provided at the time of its advice. Its telephone  contact with Mrs B indicated she 
understood financial products and the relationship between risk and return
Its assessment was that Mrs B needed  to take immediate action to meet her 
objectives. Mr and Mrs Bs LGPS  pensions  were insufficient to meet  their objectives 
(especially regarding  debt repayment);  Mrs Bs OPS was the only suitable solution  
for their immediate needs
Based  on its assessment Mr and Mrs B needed to take immediate action, the most 
relevant comparison was between  an immediate pension  from Mrs Bs OPS  with an 
immediate annuity. The OPS  NRA  (age 60) wasnt significant as taking benefits  then 
wasnt considered  suitable. The critical yield required for the new scheme to match 
the pension benefits  under Mrs Bs OPS  at her NRA was of limited use given that 
she wanted to take benefits immediately
Its advice wasnt  flawed. It had compared  Mrs Bs immediate benefits from her OPS 
against an annuity and more relevantly, flexible drawdown. It had also produced a 
cashflow model 
Its analysis showed Mr and Mrs B were in a very strong  position  for long term 
retirement. Their expenditure was modest, but a significant part went  towards 
repaying their loan. By using her OPS,  Mrs B could settle the loan and reduce her 
hours. As Mr and Mrs Bs remaining  pensions were guaranteed, it was confident  
about their future income
Its advice was based on bridging the gap between the point of advice and age 66 for 
[Mrs B]
Ref: DRN89065057Mrs Bs lowest priorities were  guaranteeing her retirement benefits (income and lump  
sum) and spouses benefits
Death benefits  were important to Mrs B. If shed taken benefits  from her OPS, Mr B 
wouldve been  left in some financial  difficulty  in the event of her premature  death  
this was particularly pertinent  due to Ms Bs health issues, all of which are known 
to reduce life expectancy
Mrs B proactively sought advice and, prior to receiving it, already believed  an OPS  
transfer was most suitable
Mrs B had 24 years experience working in financial services  as a manager  at a 
bank. Despite her knowledge, it still acted in her best interests. The OPS  wasnt in Mr 
or Mrs Bs best interests, nor did it meet their wider  objectives
It provided clear information about the benefits Mrs B would be giving up by 
transferring
The investigator considered Pensionhelps  points, but his view remained the same. Without 
the critical yield he didnt  think Mrs B had been placed in a position to make an informed  
decision about the transfer of her OPS and, given her vulnerability, Pensionhelp shouldve  
approached the proposed transfer with caution.
Pensionhelp responded, reiterated  its previous points and added  that if Mrs Bs objectives 
were used to consider  its advice, it would be deemed suitable; transferring was 
demonstrably the best option and the only solution that could achieve the requirements of 
[Mr and Mrs B].
Because no agreement could  be reached,  the matter was passed to me for a decision. 
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive taken 
note of the extensive arguments made, the purpose of my decision isnt to comment on 
every point raised. Because of this Ive limited my response to the issue I consider  to be 
central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the advice Pensionhelp  gave Mrs B was 
suitable.
I understand Pensionhelp is concerned my assessment of the suitability of its advice will be 
based on information that was either  incorrect or not disclosed to it at the time of its 
recommendation. To be clear, my findings are based on the facts as presented  by the 
available evidence in this case.  Ive also born in mind the regulators position  as set out in 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys  (FCA) Handbook and Conduct of Business Rules  (COBS) 
which, under  COBS 9.2.5,  says;  A firm is entitled to rely on the information provided by 
its clients  unless it is aware that the information is manifestly out of date, inaccurate or 
incomplete. Its only where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  as 
some of it is here,  that Ive reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
At the time of Pensionhelps  advice, the regulator  set out the principles for assessing  
suitability. The relevant rules are COBS 9.2.1 and 9.2.2 and these confirm a business is 
Ref: DRN89065058obliged to obtain necessary information  regarding a consumers knowledge and experience  
in the investment field relevant to the advice, financial situation and investment objectives. 
The business must obtain information  from the consumer in order to understand essential  
facts about them and have a reasonable basis for believing  the recommended  transaction  
meets the consumers  objectives; is such that the consumer can financially withstand the 
related investment risks consistent with their investment objectives and that the consumer 
has the necessary  experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the 
transaction.
In my view all the factors in deciding suitability were not met in this case. Im not satisfied 
Pensionhelp went  far enough in terms of gathering information about Mrs Bs financial 
situation, nor did it sufficiently explore or interrogate  her objectives, such that it was 
reasonable to conclude  transferring was the most appropriate course of action for Mrs B.  
OPS typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving these up and subjecting 
future pension income to the risks associated with unpredictable investment returns  should  
only be done where it can be shown its clearly in the best interests of the consumer. 
Regarding OPS transfer suitability at the time of Pensionhelps advice, the regulator stated 
under COBS 19.1.6 that:
When a firm is making a personal  recommendation for a retail  client  who is () a member 
of a pension scheme  with safeguarded benefits and who is considering whether to transfer 
(), a firm should start by assuming that a transfer  () will not be suitable. A firm should 
only consider a transfer () to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary  
evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the retail  clients best interests.
Pensionhelp said it took a similar position. Its suitability report  said its starting point was 
that a Defined Benefit OPS was most suitable  for the member and that there had to be a 
demonstrable need  to justify the transfer of their benefits. 
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that an OPS transfer wont  usually be 
suitable. Therell need to be good reasons  why a transfer is in a consumers  best interests. 
And generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests  if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.
Pensionhelp has referred  to the fact that Mrs B proactively approached it and her original  
adviser about transferring her OPS.  While  I accept  this indicates Mrs B was open to 
transferring, I dont think this meant transferring was automatically the best route  to go down. 
I believe the fact she was seeking  financial advice  more  likely demonstrates  Mrs B was only 
willing to transfer  if it was appropriate. And thats what I think she wanted from Pensionhelp 
 confirmation  of what was in her best interests with regards to her OPS benefits.  
Pensionhelp appears  to acknowledge  its responsibility in this regard when,  with reference to 
its role, it says it provides  advice to meet its clients needs and objectives,  which  may not 
involve a pension  transfer where these needs  and objectives can be met by staying in their 
existing pension scheme. It goes  on to say its role isnt simply to justify or sign-off a 
transfer or make the transfer  happen  (). 
At the time of Pensionhelps  advice in 2018, Mrs B was 58 years old with several health 
issues. Because of this, she wanted  to reduce her working hours over the next two years.  
However, by transferring  her OPS, Mrs B was giving up not insignificant  amounts of service 
shed accrued  specifically,  24 years  equating to a fund value of around £300,000. In 
Ref: DRN89065059addition to the OPS,  Mrs B also held an LGPS  pension worth around £20,000 from seven 
years service; her husband held the same  type of pension with a similar value. Although  
Mrs B had around £6,000 worth of shares in her former employers company, she had no 
other investments or savings. Based on this, it seems to me Mrs Bs OPS  was her most 
valuable asset.  It provided  a guaranteed income at retirement with increases, along  with a 
spouses pension  should she pass away. It represented the largest portion of Mr and Mrs Bs 
overall wealth and made up the majority of Mrs Bs pension provision when considering her 
LGPS and anticipated State Pension  entitlement. Even when combining her pension  
provision with her husbands,  Mrs Bs OPS still made up the bulk of their entire  prospective  
retirement income.
Transferring her OPS, which was intended  to provide a secure income  in retirement, meant  
that Mrs B, with only two years before she could take benefits  without  any early retirement 
reduction, would  be losing her guarantees, income increases and dependents benefits. 
Shed instead be relying on investment performance  from a new scheme. But I dont think  
Mrs Bs situation  especially her age and financial position  lent itself to taking  risks. I think 
it shouldve been  clear that while  Mrs B, a standard retail investor, may have been open  to 
taking some risk, she wasnt prepared or able to take a significant amount. Indeed, under the 
heading The importance of the [OPS] Pension, Pensionhelps suitability report  recorded, 
this pension  is important to you [Mrs B] and you are reluctant to take undue risks with it. 
But in my view, transferring her OPS, at a time when  Mrs B shouldve  been reducing  not 
increasing  the risk she was taking, presented a level of risk that was high, foreseeable and 
unnecessary.
Based on her answers to risk profile  and capacity for financial  loss questions, Pensionhelp 
determined Mrs B had a Balanced  risk profile and low capacity for loss. Regarding  capacity 
for loss Mrs B agreed to the following statements;  I cannot afford for this investment not to 
meet my goals; I need  this pension to meet my regular  outgoings  in retirement and Some 
flexibility (such as to take cash sums from my pension) would be nice,  but I do not wish to 
take this, if it is unlikely that I will be able to match the [OPS benefits]. Coupled with her 
circumstances, I think  Pensionhelps  assessment of Mrs Bs capacity for loss was fairly 
accurate. 
Regarding her ATR, Mrs B agreed to the following statements; I expect my earnings to 
decrease; I want to achieve higher  long-term returns  than cash. I could cope with 
infrequent periods where my investments  might  fall in value and regarding other retirement 
provision, In addition  to the state  pension, I have a personal/company pension  but together 
they are unlikely to satisfy  my basic retirement  needs. Given some  of Mrs Bs answers, I 
can see how the results may have  led Pensionhelp  to categorise her as having a balanced 
risk profile. But as some of the statements Mrs B agreed to were  inconsistent,  and given her 
lack of investment  experience, significant  assets  other than her house  and OPS  and any 
clear indication she was prepared  or able  to give up a certain  outcome for a gamble, I 
think Mrs B would more accurately have been described as having  a moderately cautious  
ATR. 
Overall, I dont  think Mrs B had the capacity to bear the risks the transfer of her OPS 
presented. And I dont  think  she wouldve agreed  to the transfer  Pensionhelp recommended 
if shed sufficiently understood it. Although  Im mindful of Mrs Bs recorded objectives,  
Pensionhelp was ultimately the expert and Mrs B was understandably  reliant on its advice. 
Pensionhelp was responsible for assessing  Mrs Bs objectives against her overall 
circumstances. It needed  to determine  what course  of action would help her meet  her 
objectives and, above all, place her in the best possible position in retirement.  
Ref: DRN890650510In April 2018, Mrs B confirmed she was employed  and expecting  to retire  in seven years 
time (at age 65). As Ive said, it was also noted she wanted to reduce her working  hours over 
the next two years. However, the letter of complaint Adviser S sent and Mrs Bs submissions 
to this service indicate she stopped working one month prior to Pensionhelps advice and 
always planned to retire, or semi-retire,  at age 60. Its not clear to me why, if the fact find Mrs 
B signed and the suitability letter Pensionhelp provided her with contained  incorrect 
information  namely  that she was still working  and intended to retire at age 65  that she 
didnt make Pensionhelp  aware of this at the time. And although Pensionhelp has said its 
recommendation wouldnt have been any different  had it known Mrs B had stopped working, 
I think its only fair that I consider the suitability of Pensionhelps advice based on the 
information it was provided with and entitled  to rely on at the time. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that prior to its recommendation, Pensionhelp knew  either from Mrs B or her original 
adviser, that Mrs B was no longer working and intended to retire/semi-retire at age 60. But 
even in the absence of this information,  I dont think Pensionhelps advice was suitable. In 
my view the facts, as they were presented to Pensionhelp, shouldve indicated that 
transferring out of her OPS wasnt in Mrs Bs best interests.
In addition to reducing her working  hours, Pensionhelps suitability letter said Mrs B wanted 
to repay  an outstanding loan and make home repairs. Although these are common  and 
understandable objectives, Im also conscious  that retirement planning, while it may may 
have regard for an individuals short-term goals  and preferences, its primary focus  should  be 
a consumers personal circumstances with a view to putting them  in the best possible 
position at retirement,  with the appropriate income provision in place long-term. 
I can accept that Mrs B wanted to pay off her loan, saving  around £600 a month in 
repayments; make home improvements  and reduce her working  hours while being able to 
top up her income  shortfall now and in the short term.  But I think a greater level of concern 
needed to be given to Mrs Bs future  long-term position and actual requirements. I dont think  
Pensionhelps recommendation did this. It said Mrs B needed to take immediate action with 
her OPS to meet her immediate needs and I recommend you take the maximum [TFC] () 
to reduce your outstanding liabilities,  to help with repairs to your home and create an 
emergency fund but defer  taking income at this time. Please speak with [Adviser R] prior to 
taking any further  benefits.  Pensionhelps  advice  didnt adequately explore or address Mrs 
Bs future needs.  I think  it shouldve.
Theres nothing to indicate Mr and Mrs B were  struggling such  that there  was an immediate 
requirement for their loan to be paid off three years early, home repairs  to be made or that 
Mrs B urgently needed to reduce her working hours.  It seems to me these things  were  
largely attractive nice to haves for Mrs B who was curious about the options available  to 
her. Working  reduced  hours  would  give Mrs B more free time; potentially  easing some of the 
pressure she felt working full time with her health issues. And paying  off the loan would 
lessen Mr and Mrs Bs monthly outgoings.  But along  with house repairs, Im not persuaded 
these things were essential  at the time of the advice.  And I dont think Mrs B was provided 
with a clear picture  of the extent of what she was giving up compared to the perceived  
benefit of meeting some of her objectives. 
In the circumstances I wouldve expected Pensionhelp to explore with Mrs B, what  her 
objectives meant in real terms  given her financial situation. For example, what reducing her 
working hours over the next two years looked like in terms  of hours Mrs B preferred to work 
compared with the level of income reduction she could  afford  to take.  And whether, in the 
short term, Mrs Bs debt needed be paid off early;  if it could be managed differently or 
Ref: DRN890650511whether there was a way to reduce the perceived  burden of the debt (potentially by selling 
her shares)  and avoid  the need to transfer,  giving up the security of the benefits  Mrs Bs 
OPS would have  provided in just two years time. 
Overall, I dont  think Pensionhelp sufficiently  interrogated  Mrs Bs objectives  or explained 
and recorded  her options in any great  detail  when it shouldve.  Its role was to determine 
whether Mrs Bs identified  objectives  made  giving  up the guaranteed  benefits under her OPS  
worthwhile. Im not persuaded they were. So Im not satisfied it was appropriate for these 
factors, which in my view were  weak  justifications,  to form part of the basis for Pensionhelps 
recommendation that Mrs B transfer.
Bearing in mind her low capacity for loss, I think the most appropriate recommendation 
wouldve ideally been one which  where  it was deemed necessary  freed  up some cash for 
Mrs B in the short term (either for essential  home improvements or, if possible paying  off as 
much of her loan as possible) and maintained her guaranteed OPS  benefits in the long term, 
so she wouldve had financial security  pursuant to her personal  circumstances.  
Ive considered the approximate level of TFC Pensionhelp recorded Mrs B would need to 
meet her objectives.  Although  Im not persuaded that what the TFC was apparently needed 
for was essential, it appears this couldve been  provided by Mrs B taking immediate reduced 
benefits from her OPS. Pensionhelp recorded  that Mrs B needed £25,000  to pay off her 
loan; £6,600 for home repairs and as a general guide, at least  3 months  essential  
expenditure for an emergency fund  around £5,250. Based on this the total lump  sum Mrs 
B required was around £37,000. So Mrs B couldve either, taken her full TFC entitlement  of 
around £55,000 TFC (or less)  immediately,  used the money to repay her loan, do house 
repairs and build an emergency fund, with anything leftover  being  saved or used to 
supplement whatever affordable income decrease she took by reducing her working hours. 
Mrs B would potentially  have been  able to achieve all of this all while  retaining  a guaranteed 
monthly income (which  again could help supplement her income) and other valuable 
benefits. Alternatively, Mrs B could  wait two years and take full benefits  from her OPS while 
again safeguarding her guaranteed benefits  long-term. 
Although guaranteeing retirement  benefits lump  sum and income was recorded as Mrs Bs 
lowest priority, I think Pensionhelp shouldve recognised this wasnt plausible  given the 
reality of Mrs Bs situation. Mrs B wasnt an experienced investor  with other  substantial  
assets she could  rely on in retirement, so it seems  to me that securing a guaranteed  income  
long-term would  be in her best interests  and an important  consideration. I cant see how a 
recommendation that effectively removed the relative certainty/security provided by Mrs Bs 
OPS was justifiable. Im not persuaded by Pensionhelps argument that Mrs Bs OPS wasnt  
in her or husbands  best interests as it couldnt  meet any of their wider objectives.  And I 
dont agree that Mrs Bs objectives were  so crucial, such that she couldnt wait two years to 
secure her full retirement  benefits  under her OPS.
Pensionhelp referred  to flexibility as one of Mrs Bs priorities and an advantage to her 
transferring out of her OPS to a PPP  especially so she could access  Flexi-Access 
Drawdown. Specifically, it said, You will have  full flexibility as to how your benefits are 
taken, being able to access the maximum [TFC] now and defer your income () You will 
have control over your fund and will be able to invest in line with your attitude to risk.
Regarding the option of investing  funds in line with Mrs Bs ATR, Ive seen  nothing  to 
suggest Mrs B was materially unhappy with her former employers OPS or that she had 
sufficient investment experience and knowledge, such that she was well placed to make 
Ref: DRN890650512alternative investment  decisions. And given  that Pensionhelp categorised Mrs B as having a 
Balanced risk profile, its not clear  to me why it thought it was appropriate for Mrs B transfer 
to access drawdown, which at the time,  it stated was a higher risk option. 
At 58 years old I dont think Mrs B needed  to transfer out of her OPS in order to access 
drawdown in years  to come  especially not at age 66 which  was when Pensionhelp advised  
Mrs B to start taking  a regular income via drawdown following her transfer. If Mrs B reached 
the stage where  she knew exactly what she required in terms of TFC and how she wanted to 
take retirement benefits she couldve  considered her options at that point  and where 
necessary transferred. 
Pensionhelp did warn Mrs B that, although  drawdown would  provide  more control over how 
retirement income was taken, thered  also be more  responsibilities. It said Mrs B would need 
to exercise self-control to manage  the withdrawal options available,  not withdrawing  too 
much too early; monitor  [her] pension  funds closely and make all the investment 
decisions. Pensionhelp also said it was important that Mrs B was entirely comfortable with 
managing [her] own investments.  But given what was known of Mrs Bs limited investment 
experience and knowledge,  I think it shouldve  been  evident to Pensionhelp at the outset 
that Mrs B was unlikely  to be  let alone  remain  capable of managing her investments into 
old age. And although  Pensionhelp recommended that Mrs B regularly review her new 
arrangement with Adviser R, this meant that by transferring Mrs B would  not only be paying 
Pensionhelp 3.8% of her OPS transfer  value after TFC was paid, but also 0.5% of her fund 
value annually, to cover the cost of ongoing  advice from Adviser R; all to ensure the right 
decisions were made  and that she didnt run out of money. As Mrs B had no real savings or 
assets other than her OPS, LGPS  and house, I dont  believe she was prepared or able to 
tolerate the additional risks and costs  shed be taking on by transferring her OPS  to a PPP to 
access drawdown. 
I accept that in Pensionhelps financial review Mrs B did indicate she wanted some flexibility  
with her pension, however  she also said she didnt  want this if there was a risk she wouldnt 
be able to match her OPS benefits.  And as Pensionhelps  suitability report warned, there 
was the risk that further to transferring, Mrs Bs fund could be depleted or completely eroded 
by poor performance, leaving her with nothing. So while transferring to a PPP would offer 
more flexibility in terms of drawing down income, I dont think this, in itself,  was sufficient 
reason for Mrs B to transfer. This is because  in doing so she was giving up the safety of a 
guaranteed income, which unlike drawdown  didnt carry  the risk of being exhausted due to 
longevity and/or investment performance.
Pensionhelp has referred  to Mrs Bs requirements regarding death benefits  as one of the 
reasons for its recommendation she transfer  out of her OPS. Its suitability report recorded 
that Mrs Bs preference was to leave a lump sum death benefit as opposed to an ongoing 
income after death; she didnt want her pension  to die with her. I note that Mrs B did have  
some health  issues and accept that health and mortality considerations may feature in a 
decision to transfer.  But here I dont think Mrs Bs concerns or circumstances were such  as 
would make transferring  for death benefits an obvious choice. 
Pensionhelp has said that if Mrs B had taken benefits from her OPS instead  of transferring it, 
Mr B would have been left in some  financial  difficulty in the event of her premature death. It 
says this was particularly pertinent due to [Mrs Bs] health issues  () all of which are known 
to reduce life expectancy.  Im not persuaded by this argument. Although  Mrs B was 
diabetic, had high blood pressure and suffered from depression, I dont think  there was 
enough to indicate that Mrs B was seriously ill, such that her premature death before or soon 
Ref: DRN890650513after taking retirement  benefits could be considered a legitimate concern or justification for 
her transferring. Its understandable,  given that Mrs B held the largest proportion of her and 
her husbands  pension provision, that Mrs B would want  to ensure her husband was 
provided for in the event of her death.  But I dont believe Pensionhelp sufficiently 
demonstrated that transferring for this reason was in Mrs Bs best interests  overall; that Mrs 
B understood what, depending  on when she died, Mr B would likely receive from her OPS in 
monetary terms or that it identified what income  Mr B would require and when, as well as 
what some financial difficulty really  meant  for Mr B. I think Pensionhelp needed to 
understand, discuss and record these things  before any decision could be made  about  
transferring, especially for death  benefits. 
Pensionhelp did consider  whether Mrs B should purchase a life assurance policy to 
replicate the potential death  benefits  from a transfer  to a personal  pension. But this was 
discounted as it determined that for cover of £285,000 (Mrs Bs approximate fund value) Mrs 
B would need  to pay a premium of £453  a month.  I can see how this wouldve been an 
unattractive option for Mrs B, but I dont think Pensionhelp did all it shouldve to ensure Mrs 
B was provided with enough information to make an informed decision about  whether 
transferring for death benefits was really necessary. I dont  think it was. 
In the circumstances I think Pensionhelp needed  to discuss with Mrs B what  her position  on 
death benefits was and understand why she wanted to leave a lump sum benefit as opposed  
to a guaranteed spouse/dependants pension. It shouldve also established, if Mrs B was 
adamant, what size lump  sum she wished to leave. Had Pensionhelp done so, it couldve 
established whether,  instead of transferring, Mrs B couldve taken out a life assurance policy 
to cover any shortfall between the reduced  spouse/dependants pension from the OPS and 
the lump sum benefit she wanted  to provide. I dont think Pensionhelps starting point 
shouldve automatically  been the cost of a life assurance policy paying out the value of 
Mrs Bs OPS on her death in my view,  in addition to the spouse/dependants  pension, this 
wouldve been excessive  and unsurprisingly prohibitively expensive. 
Although Pensionhelp set out in general  terms what Mrs Bs potential options regarding  the 
death benefits under her OPS and a PPP were, I dont think it went  far enough. Information  I 
believe Pensionhelp  shouldve  but didnt  provide Mrs B with was; the estimated monetary 
value of death benefits under Mrs Bs OPS if she took benefits  immediately  (at age 58); the 
estimated value of death benefits under the OPS if Mrs B took benefits at her NRA  (at age 
60) or later and the capital  value Mrs Bs new arrangement would need to be to provide 
similar death benefits. Without this information  Mrs B couldnt  adequately consider whether 
transferring to alter or improve on death  benefits  was worth her losing  her OPS guarantees. 
Im also conscious that the main purpose  for a pension  is to provide an income  in retirement.  
Other considerations, like death benefits are secondary to that, particularly where,  as here, 
despite having some health issues, Mrs B wasnt in serious ill health, such that it wasnt 
expected that Mrs Bs pension fund would need  to support her or her husband for a long 
time. 
Pensionhelp did set out the risks associated  with the recommended transfer (i.e. that 
pension income  wasnt guaranteed and depended on investment performance). But I dont  
think simply setting  out the risk factors was enough.  In my view the risks outlined  were 
general at best when  they shouldve been  extensive, specific and explicit  given the 
significance of the transaction Pensionhelp was recommending. I cant see that Pensionhelp 
adequately explained, in real terms, the long-term consequences of the guaranteed  benefits 
Mrs B would be giving up for a pension that wasnt guaranteed, depended on investment 
returns and was subject  to investment risk. 
Ref: DRN890650514Although Pensionhelps  financial review  and suitability report said Mrs B wanted to achieve  
higher long-term  returns on her pension and maximise  [her] potential [TFC] with a potential 
loss of income and maximize [her] income with a potential loss of guarantees,  it was also 
recorded that as well has having  a low capacity  for loss, Mrs B was reluctant  to take any 
undue risks with her OPS;  needed her OPS  to meet her regular outgoings in retirement and 
didnt want to transfer if it [was]  unlikely that [she would] be able to match  the benefits 
available from the scheme.  Based  on these  statements and what was known of Mrs Bs 
circumstances, I think  it was clear  her OPS was important to her overall  retirement provision. 
And because of this. it was crucial to establish the level of investment return Mrs Bs new 
arrangement would need to achieve  after the transfer value to provide  at the very least   
the same  level of benefits as those provided  by the OPS Mrs B would be giving up. But if 
transferring was only going  to match the benefits given up thered be little point  in 
transferring  so to make the transfer worthwhile I think there needed to be a reasonable 
prospect Mrs B would be better off.
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  requires  a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under the ceding 
arrangement with the benefits afforded by the proposed arrangement;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make an informed decision;
3.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail clients  attention  to 
the factors that do and do not support the firms personal recommendation, in good 
time, and in any case no later than when the key features document  is provided; and
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the retail  client understands the firms 
comparison and how it contributes towards  the personal recommendation.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say the comparison should:
1.take into account all of the retail  clients relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding arrangement  and 
the effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
arrangement;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up;
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail clients funds will be invested; and
5.where an immediate  crystallisation of benefits  is sought by the retail client  prior to the 
ceding arrangements  normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement  age under that arrangement.
In view of this, I would expect to see that Pensionhelp carried  out a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS); outlining the estimated  annual investment return (critical yield)  required on Mrs Bs 
transfer value  in order to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits under her 
Ref: DRN890650515OPS at various intervals, including  immediately (at age 58), at her NRA (age 60) and her 
desired retirement  date (age 65). Pensionhelp has however confirmed that no such  
comparison was carried out. It says that, as Mrs B had to take immediate action  and 
required TFC instantly  to be clear,  Im not persuaded she did  the aforementioned 
comparison was considered to be irrelevant. Pensionhelp says a more  meaningful  analysis 
was comparing the immediate benefits  Mrs B could receive from her OPS against  an annuity 
and more  relevantly, against the flexible pension option which  it ultimately recommended. It 
said it also produced  a cashflow  model, which  demonstrated a significant part [of] why it 
recommended Mrs B transfer out of her OPS and into drawdown.
Having reviewed the analysis and cashflow  model Pensionhelp produced, I dont agree  
these were enough to ensure Mrs B was placed in a position where she could make an 
informed decision about transferring. Ill explain why.
As Pensionhelp was advising  Mrs B on whether she should transfer her OPS to a PPP, I 
think the starting point  had to be identifying the level of growth  required for the new 
arrangement to match the level of benefits  Mrs B could secure under her OPS.  The starting 
point shouldnt have  been an assumption that Mrs B transferred her OPS to a PPP and then 
working out the level of growth required for taking the drawdown option to match the income 
available by purchasing a conventional annuity at retirement. This was a flawed premise  in 
my view. As a result, I dont think Pensionhelp  provided Mrs B with the information it 
shouldve, either  to satisfy  the regulators requirements or to ensure, as Pensionhelp says, 
Mrs B was able to properly consider  the potential implications of transferring these [OPS] 
benefits. 
Pensionhelps suitability report outlined the immediate  benefits available from Mrs Bs OPS 
if, at age 58, she took a pension with no TFC or a reduced pension  and maximum TFC.  It 
also set out what  Mrs Bs OPS transfer value could secure on the open market on a similar 
basis. Regarding  the conclusion  drawn from the comparison, Pensionhelps suitability letter 
said, this comparison indicates the transfer  value offers fair value to you. The ability  to take 
a larger  proportion of your income  as [TFC] compared to a taxable income provides you with 
the potential for greater  tax efficiency.  But I dont  think this statement addressed  what  Mrs B 
really needed  to know  especially as her position  as recorded by Pensionhelp  was that she 
didnt wish to transfer if it was unlikely [shed be able to] match  the benefits available  from 
the [OPS].  
In its suitability report, Pensionhelp did say Mrs B was () likely to be giving up a higher  
lifetime income from the [OPS] by transferring to the personal pension. But I think it needed 
to go further and make the extent to which benefits  may fall short (at various intervals) clear. 
Pensionhelp failed to set out the rates  of return that would need  to be achieved  by the new 
arrangement to replicate the benefits Mrs B would be giving up. In its submissions to this 
service, Pensionhelp has said Mrs Bs transfer value could match  her OPS benefits and in 
any back testing it would  have done.  But Im not satisfied the information  presented  to Mrs 
B clearly and sufficiently  demonstrated this. And even if it had, I dont believe that on this 
basis alone the transfer could be determined as suitable. Furthermore,  as Ive already said, I 
dont think that merely  matching Mrs Bs OPS benefits was enough to demonstrate 
transferring was financially viable or suitable. As COBS  19.1.7BG said, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which  may replicate the benefits being  given up from the OPS as 
sufficient to ensure  its recommendation  is suitable.
In addition to setting out the benefits Mrs B could secure immediately at age 58, Pensionhelp 
shouldve also provided a comparison of the benefits likely to be available from Mrs Bs OPS  
Ref: DRN890650516at her NRA (age 60) and the benefits that could be available, at the same  age, under the 
new arrangement  it was recommending. I cant see that Pensionhelp did this. Without this 
information, Mrs B wasnt in my view able to consider whether, given the guaranteed 
benefits she could  secure at her OPS NRA (age 60) in two years  time, it was really  worth 
transferring out of her OPS early  or if the early retirement reduction was something she 
could afford  to bear. As I dont think Mrs B was made fully aware of what her options  were 
likely to be at her NRA, I dont think she was in a position to make an informed decision 
about transferring  out of her OPS  early, let alone at all. 
Without a clear picture of what exactly she was giving up by transferring early  Mrs B couldnt  
reach a reasonable conclusion about  whether  paying off a debt two years early,  doing 
household repairs  and reducing working  hours was worth the sacrifice of what  she was 
giving up under her OPS.  And whether she could better afford putting these things off until 
she reached her NRA when she could secure  the highest level of retirement income she 
could under her OPS  or explore alternatives to achieve what she wanted. 
Pensionhelp has said Mrs Bs NRA was largely  irrelevant and of limited  use because she 
couldnt wait until age 60 to take benefits  she needed immediate  access  to her OPS.  For 
reasons Ive already explained,  I disagree.  Moreover, Im also mindful  that, under COBS 
19.1.3, the regulators position  is that where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is 
sought () prior to the ceding arrangements normal retirement  age, [there should be a 
comparison of] the benefits available from crystallisation at normal  retirement  age under that 
arrangement. I cant see that Pensionhelp  produced a comparison on this basis.
Pensionhelp says the cashflow analysis it produced was a comparison of Mrs Bs OPS 
income against  the flexible income option. It says this provided strong evidence of the 
suitability of the transfer. Im not persuaded it did. From what  Ive seen, the cashflow model  
was based on Mrs B transferring out of her OPS at age 58, taking maximum TFC and 
placing the remaining  funds in a PPP. Mrs B would  then at age 65 (when she intended  to 
retire) take £15,600  (her expected annual expenditure) via Flexi-access  Drawdown. And at 
age 66 when Mr and Mrs Bs state  and LGPS pensions would start to be paid, these would 
fund the majority of their annual expenditure, so Mrs B could reduce (down to £5,600 per 
annum) the amount she was withdrawing from her transferred fund. Pensionhelp said its 
analysis was that, based on these  assumptions, Mrs Bs fund would last beyond age 100. 
But this was still dependent on fund growth of 3.629% after charges and so that fund value 
(and therefore income) wasnt, unlike Mrs Bs OPS, guaranteed. 
Although Pensionhelp says Mrs B couldnt have achieved her objectives without transferring 
out of her OPS I dont  think facilitating  the transfer for this purpose, made Pensionhelps 
advice suitable.  Pensionhelp accepts  its role wasnt to justify  or sign-off  a transfer or make 
the transfer happen (). I agree  and would add that, in my view,  Pensionhelp also had a 
significant and overriding  responsibility to challenge  Mrs Bs objectives  and not accept them 
at face value. Based on what Ive seen, Im not satisfied Pensionhelp went  far enough  in 
terms of determining whether Mrs Bs objectives were essential  requirements at the time of 
the advice and if they made giving up guaranteed  benefits worthwhile. For the reasons Ive 
explained, Im not persuaded  they were. So Im not satisfied it was appropriate for these 
factors, which in my view werent compelling  justifications, to be the basis for Pensionhelps 
recommendation that Mrs B transfer.
In saying that Mrs B was well versed in her pension options, Pensionhelp has referred  to 
the 24 years  Mrs B worked as a manager at a bank.  While Mrs B may have had some 
understanding of finances  as a result, theres no suggestion she was a pensions expert or 
Ref: DRN890650517knowledgeable about other types  of pension  arrangements. And based  on Mrs Bs 
circumstances and lack of investment experience, I think it was understandable and 
reasonable that she relied on Pensionhelps  advice.
Overall I dont think the advice for Mrs B to transfer  out of her former employers OPS was 
suitable. I think the transfer presented  a level of risk above what Mrs B shouldve  been 
advised to take given  her low capacity for loss and balanced ATR. Accordingly, I dont think  
it was in her best interests. Although Pensionhelp provided Mrs B with information about the 
transfer, I dont believe  it was as clear,  comprehensive  and balanced as it needed  to be for 
her to make an informed decision about  whether  to transfer. Especially given that Mrs B 
never met Pensionhelp face to face and its advice process was, as I understand it, 
conducted via one telephone call  a recording of which Pensionhelp hasnt been able to 
provide this service   and documentation  sent to Mrs B. Ensuring  Mrs B was provided with 
and fully understood her various  options  was imperative because of this.
Under COBS 19.1.6 (3) the regulator  says a firm should only consider  a transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate,  on contemporary evidence  that the transfer  is in the 
clients best interests. Im afraid I dont think Pensionhelp met this test in this case.  I dont 
agree that making the recommendation on the basis that it met Mrs Bs recorded objectives 
was enough. As Ive said, Pensionhelp needed to question and drill down into the drivers 
behind Mrs Bs objectives and alleged priorities; particularly where she apparently agreed 
her aim was to maximize her potential TFC with a potential loss of income and to 
maximize [her] income with a potential loss of guarantees. Without doing this and clearly  
setting out Mrs Bs various options   in monetary form, where possible  I dont think 
Pensionhelp, let alone Mrs B, was able to establish  whether there  were  reasonable 
justifications for Mrs B giving up guaranteed benefits  and taking a gamble  with her main  
retirement provision so close to retirement.
In my view, if Mrs B had been properly informed of the benefits  she was relinquishing  and 
been in possession of all the information  she needed (such as an adequate comparison 
between her OPS benefits  and either  an annuity  or drawdown, immediately (at age 58), at 
her OPS NRA  (age 60) and age 65), I think it wouldve been clear the transfer wasnt  in Mrs 
Bs best interests. And I consider it reasonable to assume that if Mrs B had been advised not 
to go ahead with the transfer, she would have heeded this advice  and retained  her OPS 
benefits. Ive no reason  to think,  if Mrs B had been  advised  against transferring, shed have 
ignored that advice  and transferred anyway.  So my aim in awarding redress is to put Mrs B, 
as far as possible,  in the position shed be in now, but for the unsuitable  advice to transfer  
out of her OPS.
What Pensionhelp should do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Pensionhelp Limited must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Ref: DRN890650518Pensionhelp Limited  may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  (DWP) to 
obtain Mrs Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P). These details  should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs B within  90 days of the date 
Pensionhelp Limited  receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further  
interest must  be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess  of 90 days, that 
it takes Pensionhelp  Limited to pay Mrs B.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Trouble & upset 
Pensionhelp should pay Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset caused as a consequence of 
the unsuitable advice she received. I think that a payment of £250 is fair to compensate  her 
for that distress.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Pensionhelp 
Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I intend  to uphold the complaint. I consider that fair 
compensation should be calculated as set out above. My provisional decision is that 
Pensionhelp Limited  should pay Mrs B the amount produced by that calculation up to the 
maximum of £150,000 plus any interest on the balance as set out above.  
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Pensionhelp 
Limited to pay Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000 .
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I intend to recommend that Pensionhelp Limited pays  Mrs B the balance  plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above. 
Ref: DRN890650519If Mrs B accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Pensionhelp Limited. My 
recommendation is not binding on Pensionhelp  Limited.
Its unlikely Mrs B can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing to her after the money  award  has been paid. Mrs B may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
I invited Pensionhelp and Mrs B to respond  to my provisional decision. Mrs B accepted  my 
findings. Pensionhelp disagreed and requested an oral hearing,  saying  the complaint 
couldnt be decided  based on the documentation on file alone. 
I considered Pensionhelps  request  and explained  in my letter  of 4 November 2020 that, 
bearing in mind the available evidence and testimony of both parties, I was satisfied a 
hearing wasnt required to fairly  determine  the outcome  of the complaint. Pensionhelp 
responded and in summary asked me to consider the following when making  my final 
decision:
Mrs B had presented  herself to it as someone working full time looking to reduce her 
working days in the first phase  of retirement.  It was only following her complaint that 
Pensionhelp was made aware that at the time of its advice  (April 2018) Mrs B had 
been signed off work  sick since October  2017  and that shed stopped working  in 
March 2018. Had Pensionhelp known  Mrs B was signed  off work receiving sick pay it 
wouldnt have advised her to transfer
Mrs B deliberately misrepresented her situation  to achieve her goal of transferring. 
She knew her true circumstances wouldnt have been suitable for a positive 
recommendation to transfer. If shed wanted the safeguarded pension  her OPS 
provided, she wouldve simply taken  it
Given the circumstances as presented by Mrs B at the time,  it gave  suitable  advice. 
Factors like Mrs Bs immediate needs,  objectives, pension transfer attitude, poor 
health and ATR led Pensionhelp to conclude immediate action was required and that 
the only suitable route available was to transfer. Mrs B also made it clear she didnt 
want any benefit from her OPS going to her husband as shed accrued it before she 
met him; she wanted  all benefits  to go to her daughter 
my findings
Ive carefully considered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh and having done so, my decision remains  broadly the same  as before (and as 
set out above). That means Im upholding Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons Ive previously 
given. However, Ill respond to some of the points Pensionhelp made  following my 
provisional decision. 
While I wont be responding to all of Pensionhelps arguments, I have considered each of 
them. If I dont mention something, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. Itll be because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome 
on the matter. Ill confine  my comments to what I think is relevant and hope that Pensionhelp 
will understand that I mean no discourtesy  by this. 
Originally Pensionhelp  expressed concerns that my assessment of its advice would be 
based on information which wasnt disclosed to it. I addressed this in my provisional decision 
and response to Pensionhelps  oral hearing request.  
Ref: DRN890650520I accepted that Pensionhelp wasnt aware  that Mrs B had stopped working  one month prior 
to its advice and explained why I thought it was unfair to include this in my consideration of 
the suitability of Pensionhelps advice. I referred  to the regulators position which states  a 
business is entitled to rely on the information  its client makes available  subject to it not 
being obviously inaccurate, incomplete or out of date  and agreed  with Pensionhelps view 
that it could only advise  on the information  provided  to [it] at the time of its 
recommendation.
Therefore, my provisional  findings  that Pensionhelps transfer recommendation was 
unsuitable were   and still are  based  on the available evidence and what was disclosed at 
the time of the advice as opposed to information  which came  to light after the fact. 
Pensionhelp agreed  with this approach when it said:
We believe  that it is incumbent upon the Financial  Ombudsman Service  to place weight on 
the contemporaneous documentary evidence  () If the fact find records that the client did 
not disclose these issues, then FOS must () rule on that basis.
In recent  submissions Pensionhelp has referred  to additional information  it says it wasnt  
aware of at the time of its advice; namely  that Mrs B had been signed off work sick since  
October 2017. Pensionhelp says that had it known Mrs B was off work  and receiving  sick 
pay it wouldnt have advised  her to transfer. 
Ive seen nothing  to indicate  Pensionhelp was told Mrs B had been signed  off work sick. 
However this, like Pensionhelp not knowing Mrs B had stopped  working in March 2018, 
doesnt alter the fact that my assessment  of the suitability of Pensionhelps advice doesnt 
turn on information  that wasnt disclosed to it. 
I accept its possible that if Pensionhelp  had been privy to the specific circumstances of 
Mrs Bs employment situation  it may have chosen  to advise her differently; albeit I note that 
Pensionhelp originally said it didnt believe its advice would have differed given the ending 
of [Mrs Bs] income  stream as it would make the flexibility via the transfer option more  likely 
to meet  [her] needs (). However, I dont  think  consideration of the potential  impact of this 
undisclosed information on Pensionhelps  advice to be relevant  to the key issue  Ive had to 
determine here. That is to say, whether  the advice Pensionhelp gave was suitable  given the 
context within which it was operating and the information it was entitled to rely on.
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I do appreciate Pensionhelps concerns about the 
information it considers  Mrs B withheld from it and recognise why this makes it question  the 
validity of her complaint.  As Ive said before, its not clear  why Mrs B didnt mention the finer 
details of her employment situation during Pensionhelps information  gathering  stage or why 
she didnt update it when she stopped working. However, Ive seen nothing to indicate Mrs B 
made a conscious  choice  not to share this information or that she sought to directly 
misrepresent the facts  of her situation as Pensionhelp  suggests.  Specifically, Im not 
satisfied theres sufficient evidence which demonstrates Pensionhelps view that Mrs B 
deliberately withheld  information from it for the sole purpose of achieving her goal  of 
transferring or that she knew that by disclosing her true circumstances, she wouldnt get the 
positive recommendation she was seeking.
Irrespective of Pensionhelps view of Mrs Bs intentions regarding  information which  wasnt  
shared with it, the fact remains that Pensionhelp advised Mrs B to transfer out of her OPS. 
Ref: DRN890650521And its what Pensionhelps recommendation was based on which my assessment of the 
suitability of the advice centres  on. 
Pensionhelp has reiterated that its transfer  advice was suitable based on Mrs Bs needs,  
objectives, pension  transfer attitude,  her poor health and attitude to risk. It says, immediate 
action was required  to meet Mrs Bs immediate  needs and that transferring was the only 
and most  suitable  route available  to her at the time. Again, I note Pensionhelps strength of 
feeling regarding  this, but Im afraid  my view remains the same as that outlined in my 
provisional decision. I dont see any benefit  in repeating all of arguments I made before, but I 
think it would  be helpful to summarise again some of the reasons I dont agree with 
Pensionhelps position on the suitability of its transfer advice:
Pensionhelp  said its role was to challenge Mrs Bs needs and objectives. It 
considers it did this and having determined her objectives were realistic,  rational and 
factually correct, it recommended she transfer. But I dont agree. Pensionhelp  
appeared to largely  accept Mrs Bs objectives at face value without sufficiently 
exploring or interrogating them,  such that it was reasonable  for it to conclude 
transferring was necessary or the most appropriate course  of action for her to take.
Although Mrs B said she wanted  to reduce her working hours, repay an outstanding 
loan and make home repairs,  theres nothing to suggest these were essential  at the 
time of Pensionhelps advice or that they were so important they took priority over 
consideration for Mrs Bs future long-term  needs.
Pensionhelp  referred  to Mrs Bs health  as a factor in its advice to transfer. While 
health considerations (as well as mortality) may form part of a consideration to 
transfer, the health issues Pensionhelp  referred to werent  shown to be such  a 
serious concern  that transferring for this reason was justified in Mrs Bs case.
What Pensionhelp regarded as Mrs Bs immediate needs werent sufficiently  
demonstrated to be such pressing  requirements  that they could reasonably  be 
determined to mean transferring was essential action Mrs B needed to take at the 
time. But even if some  were, I think  taking  benefits from her OPS  was something 
Pensionhelp shouldve explored further  with Mrs B instead of discounting this in 
favour of transferring  to an unsecure scheme where  shed be reliant on investment 
performance and there  was the risk her fund could be depleted or completely eroded.
Mrs Bs answers to risk profile  questions did indicate she was willing to accept a 
degree of risk. However, some of her answers were inconsistent. And bearing  in 
mind what  was recorded about Mrs Bs circumstances and investment experience I 
dont think it was reasonable for Pensionhelp to place too much weight on the risk 
profile results which suggested  Mrs B had a balanced ATR. Risk profiling tools have  
limitations and Pensionhelp shouldve clarified the inconsistencies  of Mrs Bs 
answers. This wouldve allowed it to challenge Mrs Bs views, validate  the results  and 
resolve potential  conflicts. Had it done  so, I think Pensionhelp wouldve identified Mrs 
Bs true  ATR which I believe wouldve more reasonably been determined  to be 
moderately cautious. 
Pensionhelp  concluded that Mrs Bs capacity for loss was low and, in the 
circumstances, I believe this was an accurate  assessment. Pensionhelp recognised 
that Mrs Bs OPS was important to her; that she needed it to meet her regular 
Ref: DRN890650522outgoings in retirement  and was reluctant to take undue risks with it. But transferring  
represented a level of risk which Pensionhelp didnt show was mitigated by the 
perceived benefits of doing so. 
In its latest submissions Pensionhelp has said transferring out of her OPS and withdrawing 
income flexibly was something Mrs B suggested  as a way to achieve her objectives.  It has 
also referred to Mrs Bs husband having  accessed  his pension  via flexible access drawdown  
prior to its advice and suggested this is an indication of Mrs Bs experience  or, at the very 
least, awareness of the transfer and drawdown route it ultimately  recommended. 
I havent seen  anything in the available evidence which supports Pensionhelps assertion 
that transferring  to access flexi access drawdown was Mrs Bs idea or that shed already had 
direct and relevant  experience with it such that she wouldve had a greater understanding 
and appreciation of the risks associated  with it. But even if there was, this wouldnt have 
precluded Pensionhelp from providing Mrs B with suitable advice and proceeding with 
caution before recommending she transfer to access drawdown which it described as a 
higher risk option. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think  Pensionhelp 
demonstrated that transferring for the flexibility of accessing via drawdown in years to come  
was necessary or that the associated risks were  those  Mrs B could withstand.  
Despite any views Mrs B may have had at the outset about  her requirement for flexibility and 
irrespective of Pensionhelps view of her awareness  of the action  and implications of the 
route she was exploring , the fact remains  that she was dependent on Pensionhelps 
expertise as her financial adviser. She wasnt  in a position to effectively assess whether her 
circumstances meant  that transferring for this reason was appropriate for her at the time. 
She was reliant  on Pensionhelp fulfilling its responsibility in this regard and unfortunately, Im 
not satisfied it did on this occasion.  
Pensionhelp has made  numerous references to the knowledge it says Mrs B had of the 
differences between  defined  benefit  and defined contribution  schemes. It suggests that her 
experience as a bank  manager wouldve made  it inconceivable  that she didnt understand 
the options available to her under her OPS and the type of scheme  it advised  she transfer to. 
And its on this basis that Pensionhelp argues that if Mrs B had really  wanted to retain her 
safeguarded OPS  pension or taken  benefits  from it, she wouldve done. 
I understand Pensionhelp feels Ive been dismissive of the professional financial 
experience it says Mrs B had. However, as I said in my provisional decision,  while  I 
accepted that, as a result  of her time as a bank manager  which  I understand to have been  
between the late seventies and early  2000s   Mrs B may have acquired some knowledge 
and understanding of pensions, there  wasnt anything to suggest she was a pensions expert. 
And if Pensionhelp had been operating and relying on the understanding  she was, I 
wouldve expected  this to have been  recorded by it at the time of its advice. 
While its plausible Mrs B may have retained  some of her knowledge from her time as a bank 
manager, I dont  think this lessened her dependence  on Pensionhelp when she sought  its 
advice or negated  its duty to ensure she was provided with information which  was clear, 
comprehensive and balanced so she could make  an informed decision about whether to 
transfer. Pensionhelp  seemed to agree with this when it said,  despite [Mrs Bs] 24 years 
service in financial services and her knowledge on this matter as a [bank manager], we still 
retained a duty of care to provide advice in [her] best interests
Ref: DRN890650523In my provisional decision I acknowledged that Pensionhelp provided Mrs B with information 
about her retirement  options and the risks associated with its recommendation. However,  I 
didnt  and still dont  think it went far enough.  As I said, the information Pensionhelp 
provided to Mrs B shouldve been extensive, specific and explicit given the significance of 
the transaction it was recommending. Bearing  in mind that Mrs B never met Pensionhelp  
face to face and its advice process  was conducted  via one telephone call, I consider the 
completeness and quality of the information Mrs B was presented with to have been of even 
greater importance.  From what Ive seen,  I believe  it fell short of what was required.
My view remains that Mrs B wasnt provided with a clear picture of her various options or the 
extent of what she was giving up compared  to the perceived benefit of meeting some  of her 
recorded objectives. And despite the regulators  requirements, Pensionhelp also failed to 
carry out a transfer  value  analysis (TVAS) setting out the critical yield required  on Mrs Bs 
transfer value  in order to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits under her 
OPS at various intervals. Although  the suitability of a transfer wont solely turn on the 
relevant critical yield, it does give an indication of the degree of risk involved in the 
transaction and whether the transfer value represents good value in return  for the benefits 
being given up. So, I think it was important  for the TVAS to be carried out and the results  
shared with and explained  to Mrs B. I consider the fact this didnt happen to be a significant 
omission by Pensionhelp. Along with other  information and detail  that was lacking,  this 
meant Mrs B wasnt placed  in a position  to make a fully informed decision about transferring.
In saying its advice  was suitable, Pensionhelp has referred to Mrs B having  made  it clear  
she didnt want any benefit  from her OPS going  to her husband as shed accrued this prior to 
meeting him. Its also said Mrs B wanted  her daughter to benefit from her OPS  fund in the 
event of her death  and that by transferring Mrs B gained the flexibility she cherished in this 
regard. 
Im aware that since making her complaint Mrs B has said her OPS had originally been 
earmarked for her daughter and that she hadnt  specifically intended to leave it to her 
husband. However, theres no evidence to suggest  this was something  Mrs B ever shared or 
discussed with Pensionhelp at the time of its advice or that Pensionhelp considered and 
relied on this as part of the basis of its transfer advice. 
Pensionhelps suitability report made  no reference to any requirement Mrs B had for specific  
provision to be made for her daughter as opposed  to her husband  notably none of the 
children Mr and Mrs B had between them were recorded as being financially dependent  on 
them at the time of its advice. And as to her death benefit requirement,  Pensionhelps report  
merely said Mrs B preferred to leave a lump sum death benefit rather than provide an 
ongoing income after her death.  In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think this 
was an objective  Pensionhelp sufficiently  explored  or got to the bottom of, such that relying  
on it to justify Mrs B transferring was reasonable. Im also mindful that where Pensionhelp 
has sought to explain why transferring was necessary, it has actually  said that ensuring her 
husband wasnt left in any financial hardship in the event she passed  away was a concern of 
Mrs Bs and likely  outcome if she took benefits  from her OPS. This contradicts the 
suggestion Mrs B was clear that she didnt want her husband to benefit  from her pension at 
all.
Pensionhelps argument now regarding Mrs B wanting or needing  to transfer  out of her OPS 
to benefit her daughter in the event of her premature  death  appears to have been made with 
the benefit of hindsight.  I consider this to fall into the same  category as the other  information  
Im satisfied wasnt disclosed  to Pensionhelp  at the time of its advice. That is to say, I dont  
Ref: DRN890650524think its fair or relevant to consider it in my assessment of the suitability of Pensionhelps 
advice. 
Pensionhelp considers that, based on Mrs Bs objectives at the time, she wouldve always  
transferred out of her OPS. Im not persuaded she wouldve. I understand Pensionhelp feels 
strongly that Mrs B was intent on transferring and that she deliberately misrepresented  her 
situation to it in order to achieve this goal. But Im afraid  I havent  seen any evidence  which  
substantiates these  claims. 
Although Pensionhelp didnt treat Mrs B as an insistent client,  I have thought about whether, 
if shed been correctly advised by Pensionhelp  not to transfer, she wouldve gone ahead 
anyway. 
I think it was clear from the outset that Mrs B was seeking to rely on the information and 
advice she obtained  from Pensionhelp. And I think Pensionhelps failings in appropriately 
assessing the overall suitability of the transaction it was recommending  played a pivotal role 
in Mrs Bs decision  to transfer . 
In the circumstances I think that on the balance of probabilities it is more likely than not that 
Mrs B wouldve  listened  to suitable advice  and followed the recommendation I think  
Pensionhelp should have  made, which was not to transfer. 
Given whats now known of her situation  at the time, Ive also thought  carefully about 
whether, notwithstanding Pensionhelps  advice, Mrs B wouldve likely still transferred  out of 
her OPS.  Having done so, Im not persuaded she wouldve. 
Mrs B being  signed  off work sick in October 2017 wouldve clearly  presented  a situation in 
which she and her husband wouldve needed to consider how theyd meet  their financial 
obligations if/when  Mrs Bs income reduced. However, I dont think it follows  that Mrs B 
wouldve automatically opted to transfer  at this point because of this. As I understand it 
Mrs B had been signed off work  sick with depression following two bereavements. While I 
dont doubt that this was a very difficult time for Mrs B, there doesnt appear to be anything 
to suggest that her being off work sick was at the time likely to be more  than a temporary 
situation or one which would  impact  her long-term plans. 
I think its unlikely that Mrs B wouldve opted  to transfer and in doing so made a permanent  
and irreversible  decision  about her future based on circumstances  which  could reasonably 
have been anticipated to change in the future.  There remained the possibility that shed 
eventually return to work. 
I think its more likely that Mrs B being off work  sick wouldve  resulted  in her choosing  to 
maintain the status quo with her OPS until such time as she knew  exactly what her position  
was and identified  a specific and pressing need which  could only be addressed by taking 
action with her OPS. I cant see that this wouldve been the case at the time Mrs B was 
signed off work sick.
Further to being  signed of work sick, Ive also thought about whether the fact Mrs B stopped  
working wouldve  made it more likely than not that she wouldve transferred out of her OPS  
irrespective of Pensionhelps advice. Again, based  on the available  evidence,  I dont believe 
she wouldve. 
Ref: DRN890650525I accept that Mrs B losing  her regular income wouldve required her to think seriously  about  
the financial impact of this, particularly the extent to which it might  mean  she wasnt able to 
meet her ongoing  financial  commitments.  But Im also mindful that Mrs B wasnt  solely  
dependent on her own income;  she was able to rely on her husbands as well. 
Based on what Pensionhelp has repeatedly  said about Mr and Mrs Bs modest expenditure 
and a close examination of the recorded facts  from the time, I think  its clear that Mr Bs 
income wouldve  been sufficient to meet his and Mrs Bs outgoings, at least in the short-
term, with some disposable income being  leftover. Although Mr and Mrs B had an 
outstanding loan they were repaying  at around £600 per month,  this wasnt due to expire for 
another three years and they had no other significant outgoings such  as rent or mortgage 
payments. Mr and Mrs B lived in their home  which was mortgage free. 
At age 58 Mrs B had less than two years  before  shed be able to take her full OPS  benefits 
without penalty.  In my view this was a relatively  short time for Mrs B and her husband to rely 
on a lower, but adequate, household  income while they waited for Mrs B to be able to secure 
her full OPS entitlement. In the circumstances I think its more likely  than not that while  the 
situation may not have been  ideal,  Mrs B wouldve accepted the financial  position she found  
herself in as a result  of stopping work and waited to take benefits at age 60 directly from her 
OPS. Im not persuaded  that Mrs Bs employment  situation wouldve prompted her to 
transfer out of her OPS. 
If, in the intervening years,  there  came a point where Mrs Bs financial situation was such  
that she really needed  additional income to meet  her and her husbands needs, I still think  
that instead of transferring out of her OPS,  Mrs B wouldve more likely  opted to take benefits 
from it early,  even  where this mightve resulted in a penalty. But as Ive already said,  I think  
its more likely than not that Mrs B wouldve accepted her financial position in the short-term, 
with a view to securing  her position long-term  by accessing her full OPS benefits  in less than 
two years time.
What Pensionhelp should do to put things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme. Pensionhelp Limited must therefore undertake a 
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Bs acceptance of the decision.
Pensionhelp Limited  may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions  (DWP) to 
obtain Mrs Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS 
or S2P). These details  should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Bs pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
Ref: DRN890650526available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. 
The compensation amount must  where  possible be paid to Mrs B within 90 days of the date 
Pensionhelp Limited  receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further  
interest must  be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess  of 90 days, that 
it takes Pensionhelp  Limited to pay Mrs B.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Trouble & upset 
Pensionhelp should pay Mrs B £250 for the trouble and upset caused as a consequence of 
the unsuitable advice she received. I think that a payment of £250 is fair to compensate  her 
for that distress.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Pensionhelp 
Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint.  I consider that fair compensation should  
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that Pensionhelp Limited should pay Mrs 
B the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum  of £150,000 plus any interest 
on the balance  as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £150,000, I only require Pensionhelp 
Limited to pay Mrs B any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000 .
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I intend to recommend that Pensionhelp Limited pays  Mrs B the balance  plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above. 
If Mrs B accepts  my determination,  the money  award is binding  on Pensionhelp Limited. My 
recommendation is not binding on Pensionhelp  Limited.
Its unlikely Mrs B can accept my determination  and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing to her after the money  award  has been paid. Mrs B may want to 
consider getting  independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN890650527My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Pensionhelp Limited to calculate and pay compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8906505