K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr L bought the policy  in person in 2001 at the same time as taking out a store card.  
The policy covered Mr L if he was too ill to work,  had an accident or was made  redundant. It 
also included life cover  and purchase and price protection.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint, so the complaint was passed  to me. I wrote  a 
provisional decision in which  I explained that, based on the information I had available  to me, 
I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint. My provisional decision read as follows:
 Mr L has said PPI was added  to the card without his knowledge or consent. FICL has 
been able to give me a copy of the signed  credit agreement from the time of the sale.  
In this there was a section titled protecting your account that said only sign this box if 
you require account cover. Mr L has signed this box to indicate he wanted to buy the 
PPI. And I think it was also clear he couldve left the box blank if he didnt want it. So I 
think FICL made Mr L aware that he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it still had to give him enough  information  so he could  make  sure he wanted it. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mr L doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy  didnt cover. 
 I think its unlikely FICL made  the cost of the policy clear enough for Mr L to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for him. But the policy  would pay a 
15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly cost 
doesnt seem to be unaffordable to Mr L at the time. 
I appreciate Mr L thinks I shouldnt look at the potential  benefit he couldve received 
under the policy.  And that he doesnt  think its appropriate for me to determine what he 
wouldve done if he had to repay  a debt. But where  its not possible for me to know 
exactly what would have  happened,  I have  to consider everything available  to me to 
determine what I think is most likely to have happened. 
To do this I have to consider the potential benefit that could  have been  received under 
the policy and Mr Ls personal circumstances at the time of the sale. Mr L has said he 
wouldve received  up to six months  of sick pay and he had somewhere between 
£5,000 and £10,000 in savings. But the policy couldve  covered  him if he was too ill to 
work, had an accident or was made redundant until the balance  was cleared or he was 
ready to return to work. And that wouldve been in addition  to his sick pay. So, taking 
everything into consideration,  I still think Mr L couldve found  the policy useful
Ive taken into account Mr Ls comments that he couldve relied on his wife if he couldnt  
keep up with his repayments. But support from others cant  always be guaranteed  as their 
Ref: DRN85789932circumstances can also change. And ultimately it was up to Mr L to keep  up with his 
repayments.
Mr L has also mentioned  he thinks he had a PPI policy  on a previous mortgage  that he 
couldve relied on. But its likely this would have only covered his mortgage  payments if he 
was unable to work  due to accident, sickness or redundancy.  So I dont think it means the 
policy sold by FICL  couldnt have been useful to him. 
Mr L has provided a document to show he had a personal accident  plan with a separate 
provider and that hed had this since May 2001.  This gave him a financial benefit  if he had 
an accident. Its unclear  if this had any limitations  or if it wouldve  affected the PPI policy  
from FICL  paying out alongside it if Mr L had an accident. And it didnt cover  him in the event 
he was unable to work  due to sickness or if he was made redundant. So I cant  safely say it 
made the policy from FICL unsuitable for Mr L. 
So these comments dont  change my decision.
FICL did not respond  to my provisional decision with any additional comments  or information 
for me to consider.
Mr L responded with a number of additional points  that I have summarised below. He has 
said that he:
felt pressured  to take the policy and he was persuaded to take it because of the 
savings attached to it;
wasnt given a cooling off period;
wants to know why we didnt request further information about his other  insurance  
policies;
still thinks its inappropriate for me to determine  what he may have done to repay the 
debt;
wants to know why we didnt contact his former employer;
is unhappy about my comments  relating to his wifes ability to help him keep up with 
his repayments;
has asked if his complaint is affected by the Plevin V Paragon  Personal  Finance Ltd 
case.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill respond to Mr Ls points in turn. Firstly Id like to thank Mr L for taking the time to respond 
to my provisional decision in detail.  Ive thought carefully about  his additional comments. 
Mr L still thinks its inappropriate for me to determine  what he may have done to repay the 
debt. As I explained in my provisional  decision,  in a situation where  it isnt possible for me to 
know exactly what wouldve happened, I have to consider  everything  available to me to 
determine what I think is most likely to have happened. So in some  situations its necessary 
for me to determine what I think is most likely  for a consumer or business to have  done  in 
the circumstances.
Mr L says hes unhappy that weve made assumptions and havent based the findings on 
facts. But where its not possible  to know  exactly what  did or would have happened, we have 
Ref: DRN85789933to think about  what was most likely  in the circumstances.  In doing so we think  about  the 
balance of probabilities, which is Ive used  phrases  such as I think its more likely.
In Mr Ls initial complaint to us he said the PPI was added  without his knowledge or consent. 
Hes now said he felt pressured  into taking  the policy as he was told he could save on his 
purchases. But Ive not seen enough to say its likely that Mr L was put under  unfair  pressure 
to take the policy.
Mr L has said he wasnt told about the cooling off period. Its possible he wasnt clearly given 
this information  at the time of the sale. But as explained in my provisional  decision, I think  
Mr L was aware he had a choice  in taking the PPI and chose to take it out. So it looks like he 
wanted the cover. So theres nothing  persuasive  to suggest Mr L wouldve done anything  
differently had he been told about  the cooling  off period. And I dont think information about a 
cooling off period wouldve changed  this. 
Mr L mentioned other insurance products, such as a separate accident  policy  and an 
accident, sickness and unemployment policy attached to a mortgage.  Mr L has queried why I 
didnt ask for further information about  these. As explained in my provisional decision, its 
more likely this was tied to the mortgage, so the policy wasnt relevant in this complaint. In 
addition, Mr L previously  told us he no longer  had any documents relating to this policy. 
In terms of the separate accident policy, I didnt feel I needed additional information about 
this to come  to a decision. And when  Mr L was asked if he had anything  else he wanted me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision, he didnt send any further  documents relating to 
the accident policy. As the PPI provided additional cover to the accident  policy, I still think he 
couldve found the PPI useful.
Mr L has asked why I didnt contact his former employer for further information about his sick 
pay. I didnt need any further information  about  Mr Ls employment or sick pay to reach a 
decision on this case as what  I had on file was enough.
Mr L is unhappy that I had commented  on his wifes ability to help him if he fell into financial 
difficulties. To clarify the point I was making, his wifes  circumstances may well have 
changed had he found himself out of or unable to work  such  that Im not persuaded the 
possibility of such help would have led him to make a different decision and not take PPI  
especially when he agreed  to take the policy knowing at the time of sale that his wifes  help 
may well have been available.  
Mr L also asked whether his complaint is affected by the court ruling on the Plevin V 
Paragon Personal  Finance Ltd case. The adjudicator  Thomas  Hulme wrote  to Mr L by e-mail 
on 17 May 2018 and explained that this only affects  cases that are against the lender. As 
FICL is the insurer, this complaint doesnt fall into this category. However, Thomas  let Mr L 
know that he could  contact the lender directly  if he had concerns about commission  
payments  which hes still able to do if he hasnt  already
For the reasons  outlined  above, my provisional  decision  remains  unchanged. So I dont think 
Mr Ls PPI policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN85789934Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8578993