K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  on behalf  of his company about  an administrative error by The Share Centre 
Limited which he says has caused financial loss.
background
Mr L held shares in an overseas company, having originally invested £29,977. 
The Share Centre contacted Mr L to explain that if he wanted  to remain  a shareholder hed 
have to re-register the shareholding into certificate form. 
Mr L put in a request, but the business  made an administrative error which  led to the request 
not being put through. 
As a result the overseas  company bought back the shares at 0.000007 pence a share, 
amounting to around £47.60. Once  this had happened Mr Ls company could no longer be a 
shareholder. 
Mr L wants to know  how this has happened, and is very concerned about the losses hes 
sustained investing  in the overseas company.  
The Share Centre upheld the complaint. In summary, it said:
It accepts  that it made an administrative error.
Although it received  Mr Ls request  ahead of its deadline, it didnt select  the current 
certificate held for the overseas company in the name  of Share Nominees Limited  to 
be changed, separating the holdings for Mr L and other customers that wanted to re-
register into certificate form.  
Instead it mistakenly requested a re-registration using an electronic system  used for 
holding financial securities known as Certificates Registry  for Electronic Share  
Transfer (CREST).
But CREST couldnt be used to arrange re-registrations into certificates  because  
earlier in 2016  the overseas companys shares were withdrawn from CREST, so no 
action was taken  following  the request. Unfortunately,  the error  wasnt  realised until 
after the deadline had passed.
By way of redress it offered to pay Mr L twice  the value of what the overseas 
company bought  the shares back with amounting to £95.20.
It also offered to pay Mr L £100  compensation for the trouble and upset  caused.   
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Upon discovering  the error the Share  Centre  notified Mr L immediately, it also 
contacted the registrar,  to try to have the certificates registered, and the overseas  
company, to get the shares  back.  Although it was unsuccessful  it did everything it 
reasonably could do to get the shares  back.  
The value of Mr Ls shares in the overseas company had already fallen sharply  and 
thats why hed intended to remain a shareholder to see if he could recover any 
losses and realise any potential  gains. Its likely this is what Mr L wouldve done, and 
therefore lost this opportunity. But notwithstanding this, the Share  Centre wasnt  
responsible for the loss in value of the original  shares. 
Ref: DRN89937242Its difficult to know  what wouldve happened  if the error hadnt occurred.  
The overseas  company  de-listed  from the Alternative Investment Market in 2015, and 
hasnt been listed  since. From reviewing its published accounts, its last annual  report  
was in 2016.
Taking into account that the overseas company has been in difficulty  for some time, 
and the Share Centre has done as much  as it reasonably could to rectify the situation 
and get Mr Ls shares back. There was no guarantee  that Mr L would recover his 
losses on the company.
The Share Centre also offered to pay twice the cash value of his shares and £100  
compensation for the trouble and upset  is broadly fair and reasonable.   
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans  decision. In 
summary, he said:
The investigators view concentrates on the sorry state of the situation and ignores 
any future potential,  which  is what the administrative error has taken away  from him. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change her 
mind.
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Because the Share Centre accepts  that it made an error, the only issue  left for me to 
consider is redress. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr L says, I think the business 
offer of redress is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ls strength of feeling  about  this matter. 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  
subject heading,  its not what Im required  to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider  the evidence presented by Mr L and the Share  Centre, and reach what I 
think is an independent,  fair and reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. 
Ref: DRN89937243I think the Share  Centre quite rightly accepts that it made an error. I dont think  it did that on 
purpose or to cause  Mr L a loss. It simply hadnt  realised that it couldnt put the request 
through CREST.   
Given the financial state of the overseas company  theres no guarantee that Mr L was going 
to be able to realise  any potential  gains  or that he wasnt going to sustain further losses. So 
on balance Im unable  to safely say that Mr Ls been  deprived  of a future potential. 
I agree  with the investigator that the Share Centre  isnt responsible  for the loss in value of 
the shares that Mr L has with the overseas company, or its potential  inability  to recover.  
Thats a separate matter  altogether and not linked to the administrative error. 
Despite what Mr L now says Im also not satisfied  that hes suffered  an actual financial loss 
caused by the error. Our service doesnt  compensate for future hypothetical losses so Im 
unable to offer any compensation for this. 
In the circumstances the Share Centres  offer to pay twice the price of what  the shares were 
bought by the overseas  company is fair and reasonable. And the additional £100 
compensation for trouble  upset caused  is in my opinion also fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. .
Although the error wasnt discovered  until after the deadline had passed the Share Centre  
did everything it reasonably could  to let Mr L know and to try and fix the situation as soon as 
it could. I also think it has given a reasonable explanation of how the error  occurred as 
requested by Mr L. 
Notwithstanding the above, I appreciate  Mr L will be thoroughly unhappy  Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and I realise my decision isnt what he wants  to hear. 
Whilst I appreciate his frustration, Im not going  to ask the Share Centre to do anything other 
than the redress  it has already  offered.   
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr L 
what he wants.
Ref: DRN89937244my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by The Share Centre Limited  is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8993724