K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Metro Bank  PLC put a block on his account which meant he wasnt  able 
to access his money for four days.
background
On 30 November 2018 Metro placed  a block on Mr Rs bank account. When he called them  
they told him he would  need to visit a branch with proof of the source of some funds he had 
transferred into his account earlier  that day. 
Mr R did this the same day, but the block wasnt lifted  immediately. Hes explained that he 
made 11 telephone calls to Metro, lasting a total of 5 hours, and went into branch 4 times to 
try and resolve the issue and get the block removed. He missed shifts  at work as a result,  
and wants to be compensated £200  for lost earnings. He also thinks  it would be fair for 
Metro to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience he experienced here.
Metro didnt agree they needed to pay Mr R any compensation. But they did offer him £25 to 
cover the cost of his telephone calls.  Mr R wasnt happy with this response, so he brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our adjudicator felt that Metro had blocked  Mr Rs account for a valid reason. They also 
considered that the block had been removed in a reasonable  timeframe.  So whilst  they 
recognised the inconvenience Mr R had suffered, they didnt feel it would be fair to ask the 
bank to pay him the compensation  he was asking for.
Mr R still doesnt think its fair that Metros  actions left him without access  to his money for so 
long. So the case  has been passed  to me to review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr R will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator did here.  Ill explain why.
On 30 November 2018 Mr R transferred just over £1,000 to his Metro account from an 
account he held with another bank. When this payment didnt go through  he contacted  
Metro. They  told him he would need  to visit a branch with proof of the source of these funds. 
Mr R was understandably frustrated about  this. Hes explained the money  was from his 
wages. But Metros terms and conditions explain that they have security measures in place 
that may involve  investigating or intercepting payments into and out of your account. And 
that they may also need to investigate the source  of the funds  of the intended  payee. 
Banks have legal and regulatory  obligations  which mean they cant always guarantee when 
transactions are able to be made, or that the funds in an account will be available  at all 
times. I appreciate Mr R feels Metro could  have handled this situation differently.  However  
its not my role to review the process Metro have in place,  but to determine if it was followed 
in a fair and reasonable  way. Metro have told us why they felt the nature of this transaction  
was unusual, and Im satisfied that they acted  reasonably in blocking the account  whilst they 
made their investigations. 
Ref: DRN85018762As our adjudicator explained, in these  circumstances we look to see that the bank took 
measures to minimise the inconvenience  caused to the customer. I have  to consider that in a 
situation like this the customer is always going to experience some inconvenience. And I can 
see that Mr R considers hes lost money  and spent a lot of time trying to resolve this 
situation. I appreciate  this would have been  very frustrating for him. But Ive thought  about 
whether Metro lifted the block on his account  in a reasonable time frame.  And I think  they 
did. Ill explain why.
Mr R supplied the information Metro had asked  for on Friday 30 November 2018. Metro has 
shown us evidence  that the block was lifted at 2:42pm on Monday  3 December 2018. I can 
hear that on 1 December  2018 Metro told Mr R they hoped they would complete their review  
of the information hed given them that day. So I understand  why it was so disappointing for 
him that this didnt  happen. And Ive listened  to a series of phone calls he had with them over 
the next few days  trying  to find out when  they would complete their review.  But Ive taken 
into consideration the fact that this happened over a weekend, and that a specialist team at 
Metro needed  to assess the documents  hed provided. And I dont think it was unreasonable 
that it took the bank this length  of time to carry out their review and remove  the block.
Mr R has complained that Metro didnt notify  him when  they lifted the block from his account.  
And Metro  has acknowledged that they didnt do this. I understand Mr R found out he had 
access to his account again when  he tried to use a cashpoint at the branch. I can see that he 
used the account just over 30 minutes after the block was lifted. So although Metro didnt 
keep their promise here, Im satisfied this didnt cause him substantial  inconvenience. 
Metro have offered  to pay Mr R £25 for the cost of his telephone calls to them. And theyve 
said that if he considers  the calls cost him more  than this amount he needs  to provide 
evidence of this to them. I think this is a reasonable offer in the circumstances.
It clearly caused Mr R a great  deal of inconvenience when he wasnt  able to use his account 
for this period.  He was unable to pay for travel  to get to work and lost out on potential  
earnings  so understandably hes very upset about  this matter. But I can normally  only ask 
a business to make an award of compensation when Ive found that theyve made a mistake 
or acted  unfairly  towards a customer.  Im satisfied Metro didnt do anything wrong when they 
applied the block  to Mr Rs account, and I think they lifted  it in a reasonable timeframe.  So 
whilst I appreciate Mr R will be very disappointed  with my decision,  it wouldnt be fair for me 
to ask Metro to pay him any compensation here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8501876