K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
the early 1990s.  Mr B says he and his late wife Mrs B were mis-sold such a policy in around 
1991 with a mortgage.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible  for this sale. But to keep things simple Ill refer 
mainly to Woolwich because  it was trading under  that brand name  at the time.  
background
Our adjudicator who looked at the complaint  recommended  that it shouldnt  be upheld. But 
Mr B disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B. But 
Ill start by saying that I certainly dont doubt that he now genuinely and honestly  feels the 
MPPI was mis-sold  to him. 
Nevertheless, these events were a long time ago and weve  got very little information  or 
documents from the time of the sale. Given its now 28 years old this isnt particularly 
unusual and businesses  arent required to keep  records indefinitely.   
Its not been easy to identify  exactly  what aspects  of the sale Mr B is unhappy about but from 
what I can see hes saying he was made to feel the policy was something that he ought to 
buy and that it was an unwelcome  / unnecessary  expense.
We no longer have an application form but we do have a welcome  letter  dated August 1991 
which to me tends to show Mr B and his late wife probably agreed to the cover  and were at 
the very least,  aware theyd  set it up. It also looks like it only covered Mr B. So I think if he 
hadnt wanted the cover, hed have wanted to know  why he was being sent this letter.
Ultimately though, theres so little available information left from this case. And on that basis  
theres as much to say the sale was carried out properly - as there is to say it wasnt. So my 
finding is that they are just as likely to have  consented to the MPPI policy being set up. 
Theres simply no evidence to the contrary.
Because of the lack of information, its not clear  if the policy was recommended  to Mr B and 
his late wife as part of an advised sale. If it was then Woolwich  had a higher duty towards 
them because it needed to ensure the cover  was suitable for their financial situation.  But I 
dont think this really matters because I think the cover was suitable anyway. 
This is because it looks to me as if Mr B was eligible  for the cover and not caught by any of 
the major  exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  I dont think  the cost of the 
cover was substantially  different from similar policies being marketed at the time and at 
£9.00 per month I cant agree it would have  been unaffordable for them.
Ref: DRN84342712Mr B and his late wife may well have  already  enjoyed some protection  from sickness through 
their jobs,  but in his case, I think this would have  been quite moderate. Their  mortgage, on 
the other hand,  was secured against  their home,  so I can at least understand how a policy 
like this could have  been of use. Not being  able to meet mortgage repayments  can have 
serious consequences and policies like this are there to help in financially difficult times. It 
could have paid out a monthly sum of £200  per month in the event of a successful claim. 
So I think the MPPI was probably suitable.
Woolwich also had to make sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say whether Mr B and his late wife were told everything about the policy 
or that Woolwich did everything right.  But I see the welcome letter  about the MPPI showed 
the cost together with a brief description of the cover.
I know Mr B says he and his late wife went on to re-mortgage a few years later and he has 
concerns about  this. But were not able to say whether MPPI was even  sold on this 
occasion.
Taking all this into account, I think it shows there was most likely a sale process which Mr B 
and the late Mrs B engaged in. Theres no supporting evidence  to point to the MPPI being 
mis-old to them. Im sorry  we cant  help.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Barclays Bank
UK PLC to pay Mr B (and the estate of the late Mrs B) any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434271