K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1997. Mr B says Nationwide  Building Society  mis-sold  him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr B says the policy  was added  
automatically without  his knowledge.  But he hasnt  given us much  detail about what was said 
or what happened when the policy was sold. And Nationwide hasnt been able to send  us 
Mr Bs application form for the credit card, or any other evidence from the sale showing  he 
chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount  of time that has passed since  the sale though,  I 
dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of he limited information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Nationwide added  the PPI without Mr Bs 
knowledge. So I think its most likely that Nationwide made it clear to him that he had a 
choice about it. And that Mr B chose to take it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure he got the information he needed to decide if the PPI was right 
for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And hes told us 
he didnt have any sick pay, savings or other  means he couldve used  to make his 
repayments if he wasnt earning. So the policy would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong.
Mr B has said that he was self-employed at the time and so the policy wouldnt have covered 
him. But the terms of the policy say that self-employed  people are covered. And they dont 
make it significantly more  difficult  for a self-employed  person to claim than for an employed 
person. So I still think  the policy would have  been  useful to Mr B. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr B off taking  it 
out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mr B, 
that was unfair.
Ref: DRN81157112To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8115711