K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc (Santander) has been of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr K took receipt of a new car in September 2018. He financed  the deal through  a hire 
agreement with Santander.
He complained to the dealership soon after he received the car. He said the fuel 
consumption was poor.
The dealership looked at the journey logs and considered that the fuel consumption  was 
reasonable. They also tested the car over a longer distance and were able to get a 
consumption of 41mpg. They explained  that as Mr Ks commute was less than a mile he 
may find that fuel consumption was poor as components would  not have time to reach  a 
good operating  temperature.
In December 2018, during a call in which Santander were chasing payments, Mr K 
complained to Santander. He said there  were  other  faults with the car that hadnt been  
resolved and which included a faulty fog lamp;  a faulty bonnet release and a problem with 
the car unlocking itself.  
Santander booked  the car in to be checked  by the dealership who explained that the issues 
hadnt previously  been reported  to them. The appointment was cancelled  by Mr K but a 
further appointment was made  in July 2019. 
Santander said that they were responsible for the quality  of the car at the point of supply but 
that they hadnt any evidence to suggest  anything  was wrong with the car at that point. They 
said the fuel consumption had been  shown to be adequate  and there wasnt evidence of 
further faults.
So Mr K referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
didnt think there was evidence that the fuel consumption  was unsatisfactory  and he didnt 
find evidence of the other faults Mr K reported  either. So he didnt think it would be fair to ask 
Santander to take any further action.
Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion and he therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman. In the meantime the car was repossessed by Santander as Mr K hadnt 
made any payments  towards his agreement with them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr K so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN81800612Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr K acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  The  relevant 
law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory  quality when 
supplied. If it wasnt then Santander, who are also the supplier of the car, are responsible. 
The relevant  law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard  that 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description  of the 
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr K. This was a 
brand new car so I would  not expect  it to have any faults.
Im not persuaded that there has been  evidence provided here that the car has any faults.  
The information from the dealership is that the car provided a satisfactory fuel consumption  
when they test drove it on a couple of occasions.  I accept their argument that on very short 
journeys the cars fuel consumption could vary significantly from that published because 
components would not have reached  reasonable operating temperatures  that seems  
sensible.
I dont think theres been any corroborated evidence of other faults with this car either  so I 
dont think it would be reasonable to suggest  Santander take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2020..
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8180061