K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
two mortgage  payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policies. Furthermore they have 
complained that the premiums for the first policy were added to the mortgage account and 
therefore attracted  interest.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from December  2018,  which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I wasnt  thinking of upholding Mr and Mrs 
Bs complaint. I invited  both parties  to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached  a final decision. No responses were  submitted.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither of the parties has provided  any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But Bank of Scotland plc has already 
offered to give Mr and Mrs B back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs  to do 
anything more.
Bank of Scotland plc will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs B once I have issued  my 
final decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80580542COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them two 
mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies.  Furthermore they have complained that the 
premiums for the first policy were added  to the mortgage account and therefore attracted  interest.
background
Mr and Mrs B were sold the policies in 1994 and 2004 during branch  meetings. Mr and Mrs B werent 
sure whether the original  policy from 1994 continued and was updated, or whether they were  sold a 
new product  in 2004.  I can confirm that these  were  two separate PPI policies with two separate  sales 
processes.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagree  with the adjudicators opinion  and 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
The sale in 1994
Mr and Mrs B say they were under the impression that the PPI was a requirement of the mortgage.  
Our adjudicator said that she thought that Mr and Mrs B would have been given a choice  about 
buying the policy. This is where  my view differs from that of the adjudicator.
As Mr and Mrs B have been at great pains to point out, the mortgage offer from 1994  states: 
..Mortgage Payment  Protector  must be arranged by the society  and remain  in force during the fixed 
rate period. So I think its clear that PPI was a condition of the mortgage. But that is not to say that I 
think that the policy was mis-sold. Banks are entitled to put conditions on their mortgage products, as 
long as they sufficiently explain them.  During the period when Mr and Mrs B took out their first 
mortgage, banks and building  societies  sometimes offered preferential  interest rates for a fixed 
period, on condition that an applicant also took out PPI. If someone  didnt want  PPI they could opt for 
a different mortgage  product, with a higher  interest rate, or go to a different lender. 
The sale took place a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Bs recollection 
of events has faded somewhat. Looking  at the paperwork from the time, I can see that there was a 
separate PPI application form which  was signed  by both Mr and Mrs B to confirm that they wished to 
apply for cover. As mentioned above, the mortgage offer contained wording stating that the PPI was 
necessary during the fixed rate period. Overall I think that Mr and Mrs B would have understood that 
the mortgage was conditional on them  taking out PPI. It seems  to me that they probably  decided to 
buy the policy  as part of that particular  mortgage deal, even if they no longer remember  doing so.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a copy of their mortgage statement  which includes amounts for the PPI. 
They say that its difficult to know  from the statement whether the PPI premiums  were being added  to 
the mortgage account in such a way that they attracted interest. More recently  a different adjudicator 
has explained  that the entries do not indicate  that interest was added  to the amounts. Bank of 
Scotland has also confirmed that interest was not charged  on the premiums and, looking at the 
available evidence, Im satisfied that this was indeed  the case.
The sale in 2004
Ref: DRN80580543Although Mr and Mrs B have said that they took out both PPI policies at the same time as arranging 
their mortgages, that doesnt appear to be the case with the 2004 sale. Their second mortgage was 
arranged in December 2003  and went live in January 2004. But the policy wasnt arranged until July 
2004. Bank of Scotland says that the sale happened  during a mortgage review meeting. As the 
mortgage was already  running,  I think that Mr and Mrs B would have known  that it wasnt a condition 
of the mortgage. So again,  I think that they probably  decided to buy the policy, knowing that they 
didnt have to.
Both sales
In its response letter to the complaint, Bank of Scotland said: I can verify the adviser had no 
alternative policies to consider to offer you. Mr and Mrs B have said that this evidences a lack of 
choice. Lenders had no obligation to offer policies  that were available on the wider market. Generally 
they had one branded product available  that customers could buy, or not buy, and I think this is what 
is meant by the statement  in the letter.  So Mr and Mrs B are right in a way that there  was a lack of 
choice of mortgage protection products   but the choice  was that they could either  accept  what was 
on offer or decline  it.
Bank of Scotland  advised Mr and Mrs B to buy the policies. Therefore in recommending  the PPI to 
them, it needed to ensure that it met the couples needs. And from what  Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances in both 1994 and 2004,  the PPI was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs B have said that there was a qualifying  period where  you had to be off work for six 
months before you could  make a claim. They say the policies were therefore not suitable  as, because  
they had no savings, they would have lost their house before the PPI claim  payments commenced 
(although in saying this, they seem to be disregarding their work  sick pay). However, Ive looked at 
the two policy documents for the 1994  and 2004 sales.  Each  has a 30 day waiting  period  so you are 
not covered for the first 30 days  of any claim.  But the policies then provided cover from day 31 and 
paid out monthly in arrears. That means  that the first payment of any claim would be paid out after 
two months of not working. The 1994 policy provided  up to 12 months of cover per claim and the 2004 
policy provided up to 24 months of cover per claim.  I dont  think this made  the policies unsuitable.
If Mr and Mrs B were off sick, their employers would have paid them  six months full pay, followed  by 
six months half pay. But the policies would  have  paid out in addition  to this and potentially for longer 
than Mr and Mrs B would have received full pay for. As has already been mentioned,  they didnt  have 
any savings to fall back on, so the policies  could have provided a useful benefit at what  would  have 
been a difficult time.
With both policies there seems to have been some consideration of how the benefit  should be split, 
based on the couples respective earnings. In 1994 the policy benefit was split 50/50  between  Mr and 
Mrs B. In 2004, because Mr B was then earning  significantly more than Mrs B, the benefit  was split 
65/35 respectively. So there seems to have been some  discussion about  how best to meet Mr and 
Mrs Bs needs.
Mr and Mrs B have said that they would have received death in service  benefit  from their jobs. But I 
dont think this made the life element of the cover they bought in 2004 unsuitable. Death in service 
benefit is tied to particular jobs and can cease following an employment change. Regardless of this, 
the life cover would pay off the mortgage, leaving the death  in service benefit available for the 
remaining partner to make  use of to secure their future and that of any dependents.
A mortgage is a significant financial commitment, and the consequences of defaulting  on a mortgage 
can be very serious, so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr and Mrs B had an interest in protecting  their 
repayments.
Mr and Mrs B have had another complaint about Bank of Scotland upheld, relating to the sale of their 
mortgages. They cite this as evidence that the sales were generally flawed (although  I have already  
explained that the sale in 2004 took place at a different  time to the arranging of their mortgage). When 
Ref: DRN80580544we look at complaints we consider whether the business acted  appropriately  and, if it didnt, the effect 
that this then had on the consumer. The finding in Mr and Mrs Bs other complaint was that they had 
suffered financial detriment as a result of what Bank of Scotland did wrong, and so they were 
awarded compensation. But in this case, even if the sales were  flawed. I dont think  there has been 
any detriment  because I think that Mr and Mrs B would  have acted the same, and taken out the PPI 
in any event.
As well as ensuring the policies were suitable, Bank of Scotland also needed to give Mr and Mrs B 
enough information for them  to make an informed  choice about whether  or not the policies were right 
for them. I dont know what was discussed at the meetings, so its possible that Bank of Scotland 
didnt provide  as much  information as it should  have  about the policies, particularly about the things 
that they didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs B werent  affected by any of those things. As I think  they had an 
interest in the policies  and decided to buy them,  I dont think that further information would have 
caused them  to change their minds.
This means  that I dont  think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs B paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already offered to give Mr 
and Mrs B back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
Bank of Scotland  plc will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs B once  I have issued  my final 
decision. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8058054