K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about George Banco.com Limited (George  Banco), regarding  loans  it has 
made to him over the past few years. Mr G believes that the initial loan, and top up loans 
which were subsequently made, were unaffordable.  He wants George Banco to waive  the 
interest he has been charged as he believes he has already repaid more  than the loan 
capital amounts. 
background
In early 2016, Mr G applied for a loan from George Banco. He provided brief information  
regarding his income and expenditure in his application, and was approved for a £2000  loan, 
over 48 months. He G applied with a family  member as guarantor for the loan. 
The rate of interest was around 47% APR and an administration charge of £240 was applied 
to the loan. The total repayable on the loan was £3994.08. 
Mr G made  repayments on this loan, at around £83 per month. 
Around 6 months  later,  while the loan had around 42 months  remaining on the term, Mr G 
was offered a top up loan to bring the loan amount to £3500. He applied and was approved,  
extending the term of the loan to 60 months. 
A further  administration  charge of £420 was applied and the total repayable then stood at 
around £7900.  
Mr G made  his repayments on this loan,  at around  £131 per month. 
Around 6 months  later,  Mr G was invited to apply for a further  top up loan to bring  the loan 
amount to £5100. He applied and was accepted,  on a term of 60 months. 
A further  administration  charge of £612 was added to the debt, bringing the total repayable  
to around £11,500.  
Mr G made  repayments but quickly encountered  difficulty  meeting the monthly  repayment of 
around £190. Within  two months he had to split his repayment into stages, and then missed 
repayments in early 2018. 
Mr G made  a complaint  to George Banco,  saying  that he felt that the lending  had been 
irresponsible and unaffordable. 
George Banco sent Mr G its final response in early 2019 rejecting his complaint. It said that 
income verification  and affordability checks had been conducted  on his applications, and on 
his guarantor. 
Mr G was not happy with that response  and contacted us. 
Mr G has continued to struggle to meet  his repayments and has amassed arrears.  By June 
2019, his arrears stood  at more than £1100 and George Banco terminated the agreement, 
demanding nearly £7500  to settle the debt. 
Ref: DRN88572322One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and has set out her view to the parties. 
This view was that George Banco had not demonstrated that it had carried out sufficient 
affordability checks on Mr G prior to lending, either initially or in the two increases to his loan.  
She considered that, had George Banco undertaken proper checks, it would have  identified  
that Mr G had much more limited disposable income than he indicated  in the brief 
information requested  of him. She also felt that the credit searches which  George Banco  
undertook showed  Mr G had significant  residual debt, arrears  and defaults which  George 
Banco should  have  taken into account. She therefore considered  that Mr G should only have  
to repay  the money he received from the loan,  and that any interest and charges  charged 
should be refunded to him. 
George Banco did not accept that view and argued  that Mr Gs bank statements were not 
reliable as they linked to another  person.  George Banco considered that at the time of the 
first loan Mr G had disposable income  of more than £450 per month and so it considered  
that the loans  were  affordable. George Banco therefore asked for an ombudsman  decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have, in particular,  considered the information provided by George Banco  which it based its 
lending decisions on. 
Mr G has provided  bank  statements from the relevant time and has set out his recollection of 
his income and expenditure from that time.  The statements  are not especially informative  as 
they show transfers between bank accounts  and some payments, including  shared 
expenses and income. 
The credit searches provided by George Banco, however, show significant  issues in Mr Gs 
borrowing history and relatively high levels of debt outstanding at the time. 
I have not seen evidence from George Banco that these issues  were  properly  considered, 
alongside the information in Mr Gs application  form, in order  to assess  whether the initial 
borrowing would be affordable for him. I agree with the adjudicators  view that, had this 
analysis been  done, then George Banco would have  likely concluded that the initial  loan was 
not reasonably  affordable to Mr G. 
Similarly, in respect of the two increases to the loan, these  were  offered only a short  time 
after each previous loan, and I cannot  see evidence of proper consideration of the 
affordability of these loans. Indeed, that they would be required only a few months into a 4 or 
5 year term would  indicate that there  were  issues with the existing borrowing, which would 
not be helped  by substantially increasing  both Mr Gs monthly repayments and his overall 
indebtedness. This is particularly so given the high rate of interest and the high 
administration fees which were added to the debt. 
Consequently, I agree with the adjudicators reasoned view and consider that the lending  to 
Mr G was unaffordable, both initially, and at the subsequent increases.
The adjudicator indicated that in her view George Banco should  calculate the total which Mr 
G has received from the loans made  to him, and return any sums  in excess of this which he 
Ref: DRN88572323has already repaid. Any overpayment returned to him should  include interest  at a rate of 8% 
p/a from the date of his payment up until settlement  of the complaint.
She also considered  that George Banco should remove any negative information  from Mr 
Gs credit  file relating  to these loans. I agree with this resolution. 
For the avoidance of doubt, all administration  fees should be refunded to the account, even if 
already paid. 
I consider that the above will appropriately  compensate Mr G for the failings  in the service. I 
do not make  any separate award  for distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct George  Banco.com 
Limited to:
Calculate the total sum which Mr G received as drawdown on his loans;
Repay to him any sum in excess of the amount which he received, along  with 8% 
simple interest from the date when he paid the sums, up until settlement;
If there  remains  any balance owed by Mr G from the lending he received, to contact 
Mr G with proposals for a repayment plan; and
To remove  any negative information from Mr Gs credit  file regarding  these loans.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8857232