K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about a second  charge  mortgage loan they have with Firstplus 
Financial Group Plc. Several complaints have been raised by Mr and Mrs F since taking out 
the loan but the complaint  being  considered here relates  to the account balance, and that Mr 
and Mrs F believe it is too high and has not been  calculated correctly. 
Background 
Mr and Mrs F took out a second charge mortgage,  secured  on their residential  property,  with 
Firstplus Financial on 22 September  2004. The total amount  borrowed was £89,351, 
repayable over a period of 264 months  (22 years).
Mr and Mrs F have  raised a number of issues about the loan with Firstplus Financial, 
including, but not limited  to, the way the loan was sold, negative  equity, the PPI policy  on the 
loan, repossession action and how theyve  been dealt with during financial difficulties. Those 
issues have been  previously addressed and the current  outstanding issue relates to the 
current outstanding  balance on the loan.  
Since 2011, Firstplus  Financial have agreed  to a total of £30,821.34 of redress  with Mr and 
Mrs F, which Firstplus  Financial have said has been  used to adjust the balance  of the loan. 
The breakdown for this is as follows:
09/11/2011: £5,715.82 paid to the arrears balance and £2,678 paid to the account 
balance
11/07/2012: £5,327.52 paid to balance of the interest accrued but not yet applied 
(resulting in a reduction of £5,309.45  after that days interest was taken into account)
02/10/2012: interest rate reduced to 0%
03/10/2012: £17,100 paid to the balance  of interest accrued but not yet applied
Firstplus Financial have  recently made an offer to further reduce the outstanding balance by 
£3,538 and pay £150 as a gesture of goodwill, in recognition of the inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs F experienced due to the time its taken for this offer to be made. 
Our investigator put the offer to Mr and Mrs F and their representative. The investigator 
explained why she considered the offer to be fair, but Mr and Mrs F didnt accept it. They 
believe the current outstanding balance on the account is not accurate and they believe 
previous balance adjustments that had been accepted  by them  hadnt  been applied to the 
account. Until the balance details were confirmed  Mr and Mrs F said they couldnt accept the 
offer.
Our investigator asked  Firstplus Financial to provide details of the previous balance 
adjustments. A manual  ledger for the account, noting the daily activity,  was provided and this 
highlighted where the previous balance adjustments had been  made. The investigator 
explained she was satisfied this showed the balance adjustments had been made. She also 
noted that shes only been  able to comment on where the balance adjustments have been 
applied in order to determine the current loan balance.  
Mr and Mrs F again explained that they disagreed with the account information  Firstplus 
Financial had supplied.  They  still believe  the correct balance adjustments  havent been 
made and therefore  that the offer should be higher. Mr and Mrs F have advised that they 
have sought further advice about the balance  adjustments, but no further analysis has been 
provided to this service.   
Ref: DRN84795152As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its now been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the offer that 
Firstplus Financial has made in this case is fair and reasonable and I do not consider there 
to be grounds to instruct Firstplus Financial to do anything  more than it has already offered.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Firstplus Financial has provided detailed information  to show  the current balance of the 
account, including how previous balance  adjustments have reduced the overall amount 
owed. I have considered this information in detail and I accept that some of it could have 
been clearer when  setting out the outstanding balance  and how this has been reached. 
Mr and Mrs Fs account has been adjusted in certain  ways  through  the term and impacted 
by, amongst other  things, arrears, deferred  interest,  PPI payments and a 0% interest rate 
since 2012. Mr and Mrs F have said they have been quoted different amounts when 
enquiring about whats  been  owed and it would be helpful if Mr and Mrs F received a 
comprehensive breakdown of the full amounts that are owed, including all fees and charges, 
when they make enquiries about  the balance.  
But while some of the information could  have been clearer, Im not persuaded that the 
adjustments that Firstplus Financial have said were  made to the account have not been 
made. The detailed  ledger or breakdown  itemises  the activity  on the account and these do 
appear to have been applied in the way that Firstplus Financial has said.  
Ref: DRN84795153Mr and Mrs F have  set out their reasons  for not accepting  the offer and Ive considered these 
in detail. In summary,  Mr and Mrs F appear to be unhappy with the amount of redress being 
offered and the level of detail and explanation around the remaining  balance of the account, 
on which the offer has been based.  Because of this, they dont believe they can fairly  assess  
the offer. Mr and Mrs F have said that they have sought a further  review  of the account 
information but Ive not been  provided  with anything to demonstrate  the amounts and 
adjustments Firstplus  Financial refer to have not been applied  to the account. Nor have I 
seen anything which demonstrates the balance overall has been miscalculated.  
Having reviewed the account statements, the payments and adjustments  Firstplus Financial 
have referred to do appear  to have been applied to the account and reduced the overall 
amount owed. On balance, Im satisfied the explanation and information provided  by 
Firstplus Financial is enough to show how the balance  has been adjusted  over time. I note 
that Mr and Mrs F do not believe the account balance has been adjusted  accordingly but Ive 
not been presented with sufficient evidence to persuade me that is the case. 
The current  offer has been  made to reflect that a lower interest rate has been applied  to the 
loan since it began. It takes into account  that theres been no interest  charged  on the 
account since October 2012.  The £3,538 is a refund of the difference  between what  Mr and 
Mrs F were asked  to pay and what Firstplus Financial were  charging  them  until that point,  
with an additional  element  of interest added  to that. An additional sum to reflect any 
inconvenience is also included  within the offer. 
Due to how the account has been managed  over time, there is an amount  of suspended 
interest due. Firstplus Financials offer accounts  for the suspended interest  and reduces the 
amount of suspended interest  owed.  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs F remain  unhappy with the 
situation, but Im not persuaded the balance Firstplus Financial have provided is incorrect.  
Whilst I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed, for the reasons set out above, I 
find that the offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.
In full and final settlement  of it, Firstplus Financial Group  Plc should make a payment of 
£3,538 to Mr and Mrs Fs account and pay an additional £150 directly  to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2020. If Mr and Mrs F decide not to accept 
my decision  it will not be binding on Firstplus  Financial Group Plc and it will not be obliged to 
make the payment.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8479515