K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1994 during a meeting.  Miss H says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Miss H aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time but Lloyds has provided a 
copy of the available paperwork.  Miss Hs credit card application form shows that the option 
to take PPI was selected and she also signed  the form in agreement  with the information on 
it. With this in mind I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss H didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  
this now.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss H so it had to check that the PPI was right for her. 
Miss H has told us that she is unsure of the sick pay she was entitled to at the time she 
applied for her card and could have relied  on her partner to help make the repayments. Miss 
H has also told us she is unsure about the amount of hours she would have been working. 
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Miss H would have received, and 
although Miss Hs partner would have wanted  to help, their ability to would have been 
dependent on their circumstances  at the time which could have changed. From  the 
information available I am unable to say that Miss Hs employment would have made  the 
policy unsuitable for her.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Hs circumstances at the time, she wasnt affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss H because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss H about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss H, 
that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN87939042To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss H has said, but these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Miss H any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Miss H the difference 
between what Miss H owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share 
it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Miss H 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss H can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss H.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss H any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793904