K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold a Privilege 
packaged bank  account to him in 2003. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Ds complaint already and didnt think  that Co-op mis-sold the 
packaged account. Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. Ive used this approach  to help 
me decide what to do about Mr Ds complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that Co-op mis-sold the packaged  
account to Mr D. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr D was given a choice in taking  the Privilege 
account. At this point,  it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working  out what I think is most likely  
to have happened, I have  to think about everything Ive been  told together  with else 
everything Ive been provided with and see how this fits with what I do know.  In other words, 
what l have to do, in this case, is decide  what  I think  is most likely  to have happened having 
weighed up what Mr D and Co-op  have been able to provide me with.  
It looks like Mr D upgraded  to the Privilege account  from a free one hed had for a number of 
years. Mr D says he didnt want a packaged  account but he was told he had to have one 
because he also wanted a separate joint account  with his wife. I dont know  what  Mr D was 
told at the time. But the account  was taken out a long time ago  over fifteen years. And 
quite understandably Mr Ds recollections  of what happened might  now not be as strong as 
they used to be. 
So I have  to think about what hes said in light of this and in the overall  context of everything 
else Ive been  told happened and the limited information thats remained from the time. Even 
if Mr D did open a joint account at this time, from what hes told us it seems  as though he 
knew he could have  had a free joint account  elsewhere. And, in these circumstances,  Im 
afraid that I think its unlikely Mr D wouldve taken a packaged account  instead of a free 
one elsewhere   just to bank with Co-op.
So having  thought about everything  including  Mr Ds recollections  of the sale  I think  its 
most likely that Mr D was given a choice  on whether  to take the packaged  account.  And I 
think that its most likely  he chose to upgrade to the Privilege account because  he thought 
the overall package  of benefits might prove useful to him.  
Co-op hasnt been able to say much about what happened at the time of the upgrade. But 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr Ds circumstances were assessed before the account 
was sold. So I dont  think that the account  was recommended to Mr D and Co-op didnt have 
to check if the account was right for him and it was up to Mr D to do this. But Co-op did have 
to provide Mr D with clear  enough information for him to be able to do this. 
Ref: DRN84471892I think that its likely Co-op  wouldve provided  basic information on most, if not all, of the 
benefits on the account. While I cant say that Mr D wouldve been provided  with everything 
he needed to know about all the insurance,  I think he wouldve been provided with enough to 
know what the account included. After all Co-op  was looking to make  the account appear 
attractive and persuade  Mr D to upgrade.  And the best and most logical way of doing this 
wouldve been by listing all the benefits  on the account in the hope that Mr D would find 
enough of the benefits useful to want to take it out.
Having the Privilege account meant that Mr D didnt have to pay the standard  £8 a month  
overdraft usage  fee  free account holders had to pay - and he received an interest  free 
portion of £100. Mr D had an overdraft that he was using at the time of the upgrade. So I 
think that this benefit is likely to have proved useful  to Mr D.
The account  also included  travel  insurance  which Mr D went on to use. Ive seen what  Mr D 
has said about not being told he had to pay an excess. But excesses are a common feature 
of all insurance policies  not just travel  insurance  ones. And I dont think that this was 
significant information that had to be highlighted when Mr D was sold the account. Is also 
add that Mr Ds actions  in keeping the account after finding out about  the excess lead me to 
think that he wouldnt have done anything differently even if he had been told about  the 
excess in the first place.
Co-op added  further benefits to the Privilege account during the time that Mr D had it  for 
example mobile  phone insurance and other insurance products were  added later on. And the 
monthly fee for the account was also increased.  But I think its likely that Co-op  wouldve 
written to Mr D to let him know as and when these changes happened. And once he 
received this information it was up to him to decide whether the account was still right for 
him, or whether the inclusion  of these additional  benefits and the increase in the monthly fee 
now meant that it was no longer worth  his while having the Privilege account.
Im open  to the possibility Mr D wasnt told about all the ins and outs of the account. But 
overall I do think he was told enough to know and understand  what  it was he was agreeing 
to. And as his circumstances  dont suggest he wouldve  been  affected by any of the main 
limitations and exclusions  on the benefits, I dont think  clearer  information wouldve stopped 
him taking  the account out in the first place. 
Mr D may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think that he shouldnt  have taken  this account. 
And given  what he mightve  read or heard  about  packaged accounts  in general, I can 
understand why this might now lead him to believe his account  was mis-sold. But I think  its 
likely Mr D chose  to take the account after having  been provided with an explanation on 
what it included. So although  Mr D may now question his reasons for upgrading, as he may 
think the account hasnt proved to be value  for money, this doesnt  mean  his account was 
mis-sold.
I want to reassure Mr D that Ive looked at all the information Ive been provided with. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having  done so, I dont think that Co-op 
mis-sold the packaged  account to Mr D. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Ref: DRN84471893Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8447189