K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined her pet 
insurance claim and added an exclusion to the policy. My references  to Red Sands include 
its agents.
background
Mrs H has a Superior pet insurance  policy for her cat, insured by Red Sands. I understand 
the policy gives lifetime  cover while the policy  is in force. The policy  started in March  2014 
and Mrs H renewed the policy each year.
Mrs H claimed  for investigation  of her cats diarrhoea in 2018.
Red Sands  declined the claim. It said the cats vet notes showed the cat had diarrhoea in 
2013, before  the policy was taken out, so the claim was for a pre-existing condition which the 
policy didnt cover. Red Sands also added an exclusion to the policy for all claims with 
respect to the digestive system with effect  from the start of the policy. Red Sands said the 
policy terms enabled it to do so where  there was a pre-existing  condition it hadnt been  told 
about and Mrs Hs claim also fell within that exclusion.
Mrs H complained to us. She said her vet had told Red Sands her cats diarrhoea in 2018  
was unrelated to the diarrhoea he had in 2013,  but it still declined  her claim. Mrs H wants 
Red Sands  to pay her claim. Shes also concerned  the exclusion will mean the condition isnt 
covered in the future.
Our investigator thought Red Sands had unfairly declined  the claim.
Red Sands  disagreed and wanted  an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
I need to decide whether Red Sands fairly  and reasonably declined  the claim,  and I dont 
think it did. In addition,  I need to decide  if it fairly  and reasonably  added  the exclusion  for all 
claims with respect to the digestive system to apply retrospectively, and I dont think it did. Ill 
explain why.
pre-existing condition exclusion
The policy says Red Sands wont cover:
Any pre-existing  condition or claim for costs relating to anIllness that relates to or 
results from an... Illness or clinical  signs your pet had before the commencement 
date (of the policy).
The vets notes show that before the start of the policy Mrs H took her cat to the vet three 
times over a 10 day period in August 2013  for one bout of diarrhoea. The notes say the cat 
scavenged and he got worse after eating pork fat, the cat may have gastroenteritis and the 
vet recommended a bland diet.
Ref: DRN81671982Over two years  later,  in November 2015, and about 20 months  after Mrs H took out the 
policy her cat went to the vet again  about  diarrhoea. He had a couple of other later visits for 
the same. From June to September 2018 the cat had chronic diarrhoea and Mrs Hs claim is 
for investigation of diarrhoea  during that period.
Mrs Hs vet told Red Sands that:
Mrs Hs cat was seen  in 2013 as a result of loose faeces occurring on (date)  
stemming from suspected scavenging, the diarrhoea, which resolved after treatment
there was no evidence of any repeat occurrence for 27 months after the initial  
problem, making it highly unlikely to be linked
the cat had four episodes of diarrhoea  between the start of the policy and his current  
clinical disease, the former being largely  linked to inappropriate scavenging/feeding 
and as isolated incidents
his current  episode differs significantly in that it is sustained,  chronic diarrhoea  of 
variably consistency with no response to the previously effective treatments, with 
current testing positive  for coronavirus/clostridium and toxoplasmosis, diseases 
which, if present from previous bouts, would likely  have  led to constant  
gastrointestinal disturbance rather than the occasional diarrhoea  noted previously.
So the vets evidence is clear that its very probable there is no link between  the causes of 
diarrhoea in 2013 and 2018.
As the vets evidence  is the 2013  and 2018 diarrhoea are unrelated  Red Sands cant  fairly  
rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim.
exclusion for all claims  with respect  to the digestive system
I also dont think Red Sands can fairly add, backdate and apply the exclusion for all claims 
for the digestive  system.
Ive seen no evidence  that Red Sands asked Mrs H about pre-existing conditions  or vet 
treatment when she bought the policy. If it had, and Mrs H misrepresented the answers, it 
might be fair to apply  exclusions  retrospectively   if thats what  it would have done had it 
known the true position. The law allows this in some circumstances where  theres been a 
relevant misrepresentation.
But as Red Sands hasnt shown me it asked Mrs H those questions there isnt an issue  of 
misrepresentation.
The policy says that if Mrs Hs cat showed  any clinical signs or an illness  before the policy 
started it reserves  the right to apply an exclusion to the policy in respect of the clinical  sign, 
illness or condition.  But as I dont think the claim condition  started  before the policy started  
and as Mrs Hs policy gives lifetime cover  from 2014 I dont think  Red Sands can fairly  add 
the exclusion to apply for future claims.
outcome
For the reasons  Ive given above  Red Sands unfairly  declined the claim.
Ref: DRN81671983Red Sands  must pay the claim plus interest as Ive detailed below. It must also remove the 
exclusion for all claims  with respect  to the digestive system with effect from the start of the 
policy.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs H agreed. Red Sands  said it didnt agree but it didnt have any further comments to 
make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs H agrees, and Red Sands has no substantive comments  on, my provisional decision 
Ive no reason to change  my mind. For the reasons given  in my provisional findings and 
these findings  I uphold this complaint. 
Red Sands  must pay the claim plus interest as Ive detailed below. It must also remove the 
exclusion for all claims  with respect  to the digestive system with effect from the start of the 
policy.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  to:
pay the claim. If Mrs H has already paid the vet interest must  be added at 8% simple 
a year from the date of claim  to the date of settlement, and
remove the exclusion for all claims with respect  to the digestive system with effect  
from the start of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs H a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN8167198