K822xcomplaint
Mr S says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him.
background 
TSB experienced IT problems at the end of April 2018. In May 2018, Mr S was contacted  by 
TSB because it suspected  thered  been  fraudulent activity  on his account.  Later  that day, his 
bank card was declined, causing  significant  embarrassment and inconvenience. 
When Mr S later tried to log onto his online account  but was unable to gain access. He then 
tried for several hours to contact TSB by phone,  and when he finally  spoke to someone,  he 
was told thered been two fraudulent withdrawals from his account  totalling £372.21. The 
money was refunded two days later, but Mr S was unable to access  his online account for 
the next couple of months. 
Mr S complained to this service. He said the IT issues  had resulted in his account going  
overdrawn because he was unable to visit the branch to manage  the payments in and out of 
the account. He wants  the overdraft fees to be refunded and to be assured  that his credit 
score wont  be affected. He also wants TSB to explain how the fraud occurred.
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld in part. She noted  Mr Ss card had been 
declined and that two fraudulent transactions had been deducted  on 22 May 2018 and 
refunded on 24 May 2018. She accepted this couldve been linked to the problems with 
TSBs IT systems  and that Mr S was subsequently unable  to access  his account online. But 
she noted hed made payments into the account in July and couldve made  more  payments 
over the phone or in the branch. So she said she wasnt able to make TSB waive the 
overdraft fees.
Overall, our investigator accepted that, not having access to his online  banking wouldve 
caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. She also noted TSB had given inaccurate 
information about the status of the account  and that this would have added  to the 
inconvenience. Because of this, she recommended that TSB should  pay Mr S a total of £300 
compensation.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Hes explained that TSB has told him the account is no longer on the system and that he 
needs to know  how much the account is overdrawn and what  the charges are for. He wants  
TSB to tell him how the overdraft built up and why he should pay for something he hasnt 
used for months.  He doesnt think £300 is sufficient compensation for the time it took TSB to 
respond to his complaint and the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result  of 
not having been able to access his bank account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and I have reached the same conclusion 
as our investigator for broadly the same reasons.
Mr S has made enquiries about the status of his account and TSB has confirmed  it remains  
open. He should therefore contact TSB if he needs more information  about the overdraft  and 
account charges.
Ref: DRN86179242Hes said he suffered significant embarrassment when, following the alert of fraud on his 
account, his card was declined.  And Ive no doubt  that this is the case. However, its clear a 
block was placed  on the account  due to the threat  of fraud  and in those circumstances  Im 
satisfied TSB didnt do anything wrong,  because its failure act wouldve left Mr Ss account  at 
risk of further fraudulent activity. Mr S has said he wants to know  how the fraud occurred,  but 
unfortunately, TSB lost a lot of information as a result of its IT issues  and so this information 
isnt available.
While I accept the fraudulent activity  on Mr Ss account was distressing, Im satisfied  the 
money was refunded immediately, he didnt suffer any financial loss and that the matter was 
properly and promptly dealt with. Further, Mr S hasnt produced  any evidence that his credit  
score has been affected.
I accept there was a period when Mr S was unable to access his bank account online,  which  
was undoubtedly  inconvenient and which  I agree  he should be compensated for. However  I 
dont accept that the overdraft that has accumulated is TSBs responsibility because  the 
fraudulent transactions were refunded before the account went overdrawn, so its unlikely 
that any of the overdraft  fees were applied  because of the fraudulent transactions. Further,  
there were other ways Mr S could have  managed  his account and he hasnt described any 
special circumstances  which would  mean  he couldnt reasonably  have gone into the branch 
to manage his account. So I cant  fairly make TSB pay off the overdraft  or any of the 
associated account  charges.
Mr S has said hes unhappy with the £300  that our investigator has recommended.  While I 
cant make  TSB compensate Mr S for the time it took to resolve  the complaint, Ive 
considered the impact  the IT problems had on him, in particular the time it took him to 
contact TSB when the problems first started and the length of time hes spent without access 
to his online account. Overall, Im satisfied £300  is fair and that it reflects  the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr S suffered as a result of TSBs  failings.
Therefore, for the reasons outlined above,  I uphold this complaint  in part and direct  TSB to 
pay Mr S £300 compensation. If it has already paid any compensation in respect of these 
matters, it should deduct  this from the £300.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct TSB Bank  plc to pay Mr S a total of £300  
compensation.
TSB Bank Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If TSB Bank  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should  also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN86179243Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617924