K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe)  Ltd avoiding  his car insurance policy 
after making a claim.
Where I refer to Accredited  Insurance, this includes their agents.
background
Mr K applied for a short-term car insurance  policy on 27 February 2018 to provide  him with 
cover for a 24 hour period. Mr K was involved in an accident while  insured and so he 
claimed on the policy for the damage  caused to the car.
Accredited Insurance wrote to Mr K on 16 May 2018  saying that after carrying  out checks  
theyd found evidence to suggest he didnt live at the address he provided  when applying for 
the policy. They asked  Mr K to provided evidence to support that he lived at the address he 
provided - his uncles  property. But they say he didnt provide anything  to support this. So 
they said that they would be treating this as a deliberate misrepresentation and avoided his 
policy. They  said that this meant they wouldnt be considering any claims presented  under 
the policy and no premiums would be returned.
Mr K raised a complaint about his policy being  avoided and the claim not being considered 
as a result  of this. Accredited Insurance didnt change their position. They said theyd 
received nothing to support Mr Ks claim that he rented a room  at his uncles property and 
that when they spoke  to him, he confirmed  that he had an awareness that the policy  address 
is a factor  for an insurer  calculating premiums. And so they still thought  Mr K had 
deliberately misrepresented his address in order to obtain a cheaper premium.
The complaint was referred  to our service.  Our investigator looked in to the matter but she 
didnt think Accredited  Insurance had acted unfairly  by avoiding the policy.
Mr K disagreed and so the matter was referred to me for review.
I wrote  to both parties explaining that I was minded to reach  a different outcome to that of 
our investigator. I said:
When looking at these  types of cases,  our approach is to identify if theres been a 
misrepresentation. If there has been  one  we look to see what difference it would 
make to the policy. We would then also look at how the misrepresentation has been 
categorised. What action  the insurer can take and if its in line with CIDRA.
CIDRA places a duty on consumers to take reasonable  care not to make a 
misrepresentation. Mr K has said that he has a difficult relationship with his wife and 
that he stays at his uncles property at times when theyre having  troubles. And when 
he set up the policy  he was residing at his uncles property for these reasons. Hes 
explained that he cant provide evidence of residing at this property though because 
his bills and documentation  is sent to the property he owns.
CIDRA also places a duty on businesses to ask clear and specific  questions  that are 
not misleading. And the information  Mr K was asked to provide, in respect  of his 
contact details, was his home postcode  to enable to him to select  his home address. 
Ive therefore  considered  this, along with whether  Mr K took reasonable care when 
Ref: DRN83789152providing the address he did, to determine  if a misrepresentation took place. Having 
done so I dont think it did and Ill explain why.
Mr K applied for short term insurance that provided cover for 24 hours. Although  he 
was asked to provide  his home  address for the purpose of contact details, its not 
uncommon for people  to reside at multiple properties. And the question isnt clear  as 
to whether the address  that should  be provided is for while the policy is in effect or 
whether it should  be, for example, the property the policyholder owns  or resides at 
predominately throughout the year.
So while Mr K does  own a property, I dont think it was unreasonable for him to 
provide the details of the address he was residing  at when he applied  for the policy.  
And Ive not seen  anything to show that he wasnt residing  there  at the time.  I also 
think the circumstances around the claim incident  support  Mr Ks testimony around 
his relationship difficulties and that he stays at his uncles property. So given the 
nature of this policy was for one day, and on that day Mr K was residing at his uncles 
address, I consider  his answer as accurate.
I also think its particularly important that there is no evidence of quote manipulation 
in this case. So there isnt anything to show Mr K attempted to obtain a cheaper 
quote by using his uncles  property  address  rather than the property he owns.  I think  
this demonstrates that Mr K took reasonable care,  and that there wasnt  any 
misrepresentation, when applying  for the policy.

Because of this I dont think [Accredited Insurance] acted fairly by avoiding Mr Ks 
policy. I dont think its been shown that Mr K failed to take reasonable care when 
taking out the policy  or that he deliberately misrepresented  his address when doing 
so. This means I have  to conclude that youve acted incorrectly and unfairly in 
respect of recording a misrepresentation. Therefore, I think you should do the 
following to put things right.
to put things right
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd should:
 Remove any record of the policy voidance  on any internal or external databases
 Reconsider the claim in line with policy conditions and limits
 Pay £300 to Mr K for incorrectly avoiding this insurance policy and the trouble and 
upset this caused
I invited both Accredited Insurance and Mr K to respond with any further  comments (or 
evidence) for my consideration. 
Accredited Insurance didnt agree and maintained their view that there had been a deliberate  
misrepresentation and so it was reasonable for them to avoid the policy. 
Mr K re-emphasised  the difficult  circumstances hes experienced and that the reason  he 
gave his uncles  address  when applying for the policy is because he was residing there at 
the time.  He said he answered the questions  honestly, truthfully and didnt  mislead 
Accredited Insurance.
Ref: DRN83789153Now both parties have  had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions I previously  set out.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) places a 
places a duty on businesses to ask clear and specific  questions  that are not misleading, as 
well as on consumers to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. When 
applying for the policy Mr K was asked to provide his home  postcode to allow him to select  
his home  address for the purpose  of providing his contact details. Accredited Insurance  says 
he deliberately  gave the incorrect  address to get a cheaper premium.
Its important to remember that this policy was to only intended  to run for 24 hours. The key 
issue here for me to decide is where Mr K would reasonably consider to be his home  
address for while he was insured on this policy. And, as Mr K has explained,  he resides at 
his uncles property  at times when hes experiencing relationship difficulties with his wife. 
This appears  to have  been a temporary arrangement,  but at the same  time this was only a 
short-term policy. So I can understand why he gave  this address as thats where he wouldve  
been contactable at the time of applying for the policy.
Accredited Insurance has however pointed  out that Mr K told our service that he doesnt  
consider his uncles address to be his home  address.  This is why he cant provide 
documentary evidence  to support staying  there  as it is sent to the property he considers  his 
home address - which  is where he resides with his wife and children. Because of this 
Accredited Insurance has argued that when Mr K completed the application for the insurance 
policy, and in answer to a clear question in regards  to his home address, he shouldve  
provided this address  opposed to his uncles.
I also note Accredited  Insurances comments that they think Mr K has been inconsistent in 
what hes said about his living  arrangements.  They say hes told them that hes resided at 
his uncles address  for one year whereas hes told our service  that hes resided there 
intermittently. And they say that they would expect Mr K to be able to provide some 
documentary evidence  to show  he resides at his uncles  address. But they say that the only 
document hes provided showing  this address is his driving licence which  was issued back in 
2013.
Ive carefully considered  what Accredited  Insurance has said but I remain  of the view that it 
wasnt unreasonable for Mr K to provide his uncles  address when applying for the policy. Ill 
explain why.
Its not uncommon for people to have more  than one place of residence. Mr K hasnt been 
able to provide  documentary  evidence   other than his driving license  of him residing at his 
uncles address. But I think he has detailed his unique circumstances around how his living 
arrangements are impacted by the relationship with his wife and that his uncles property is a 
place of refuge at difficult times. So although  hes stayed at his uncles address for about a 
year, hes told us that this has been intermittently  to ensure hes not staying away from his 
children for too long a time. Because of this, hes said there was no reason for him to 
Ref: DRN83789154arrange mail to be sent to his uncles address as he could collect it from the address he 
resides at with his wife and children.
I think its also important to note that Ive not seen anything to show that Mr K wasnt residing 
at his uncles address  when he took out the policy. And in light of what  Mr K has told us, I 
think its understandable why he isnt able to provide any other  documentation  to support 
this.
Ive also considered what information  Mr K was asked to provide when applying for the 
policy. And while I dont  think the application  section in respect of contact details to be 
inherently unclear,  it also doesnt specify whether this should be an applicants  current place 
of residence or whether  it should be where  they reside at predominately throughout the year.  
And, as I said, given the policy  applied for only provided for 24 hours,  I think its reasonable 
for Mr K - who has more  than one place of residence  to have provided the details of where 
he was residing at that time. 
Accredited Insurance has alleged Mr K misrepresented his address  to obtain a cheaper 
premium. However, I havent  seen  anything to support this. So taking everything in to 
account, Im satisfied Mr K took reasonable care when applying for the policy and that he 
didnt mispresent his address.
It therefore follows that I dont think Accredited Insurance  has acted fairly by avoiding the 
policy and not considering  the claim. 
Accredited Insurance doesnt think they should  have to pay the £300 compensation in 
addition to reconsidering the claim. I accept they made what they considered to be a 
balanced judgment on the facts  available to them.  But  I think  the decision they made  was 
unfair. And I think this has caused Mr K some  trouble and upset that couldve been avoided. 
This is because Accredited Insurance told Mr K that he would have to inform any potential 
new insurer of the policy being avoided due to misrepresentation of his home address as 
well as the claim being rejected. I think this wouldve naturally  caused Mr K to worry about 
the impact this could  have  on future  insurance  premiums. In addition  to this, the car that was 
damaged was owned by one of Mr Ks friends.  So I think  Mr Ks relationship with his friend  
wouldve been impacted due to the claim not being  considered. I therefore think  £300 
compensation is a fair amount to recognise this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct  Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd to:
Remove any record of the policy voidance on any internal or external databases
Reconsider the claim in line with policy  conditions and limits
Pay £300 to Mr K for incorrectly  avoiding this insurance policy  and the trouble and 
upset this caused him
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Ref: DRN83789155Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8378915