K821x#15complaint
Ms C says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) irresponsibly lent 
to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Satsuma provided to Ms C between  February  
2017 and November 2017.  Ms C borrowed amounts increasing from £300  to £1,000 to be 
repaid over six or twelve  months. The monthly instalments that Ms C was expected to repay 
ranged between  £49.80  and £166.00. Loans three  and four overlapped so that Ms C was 
expected to repay about £216 a month.  From  what I can see, Ms C repaid loan one early, 
withdrew from loan two and still has amounts outstanding for loans three  and four. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Cs complaint in part and thought loan four shouldnt have been  
given. Satsuma didnt  respond to the adjudicators view and so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Ms C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN85293312Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
Satsuma asked Ms C for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Ms C said her monthly  income was £780 for loan one and £1,500  for her other  
loans. Her stated monthly disposable income was between £675 and £1,000. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Ms Cs 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Satsuma, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Ms C provided or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Ms C was saying. From  the information she provided, the loans  looked  
affordable for Ms C, and so I cant say Satsuma was wrong to provide loans one to three.
By loan four, Ms C had been borrowing from Satsuma  for nine months  with no significant 
breaks and the amounts she had borrowed had now increased significantly.  So I think  
Satsuma should  have verified what Ms C had told it about her financial circumstances. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan four would  most  likely have 
shown that Ms C was having trouble managing  her money. This is because Satsumas 
checks of Ms Cs finances would have shown that Ms C had at least  three other  short term 
loan commitments  with other  lenders.
And so Satsuma should have realised that Ms C would be unlikely to be able to 
sustainably repay  loan four, or any subsequent loans. So I think Satsuma was wrong  to 
have provided  loan four. 
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Ms C paid on loan four and waive  any still outstanding; 
this refund  should be offset against  the principal Ms C still owes for loans three and four 
and the rest paid to her, or if a balance remains owing an affordable  repayment plan 
should be agreed. 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative  information about  loan four from Ms Cs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN85293313my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
I require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma Loans) to pay Ms C 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529331