K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Yorkshire Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1999. Mr and Mrs F paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr F in case he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs F disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case. 
Having done that, Ive decided Mr and Mrs Fs PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage application had a section  for PPI, which  explained what it was for. 
It said it was something Yorkshire offered which customers could think about,  and which one 
could apply for if interested. The mortgage enquiry  document records  the discussion Mr and 
Mrs F had with Yorkshires staff member.  According  to the record, they discussed different 
types of insurance,  and Mr and Mrs F turned down some  so it looks like they knew  they 
werent compulsory  but did want  PPI. Mr and Mrs F signed and submitted an application 
specifically for PPI, separately  to applying for the mortgage itself.
Mr and Mrs F said the staff member filled in the forms, but even if thats the case  it looks like 
they discussed them in detail, not least to get Mr and Mrs Fs financial details and mortgage 
preferences. And Mr and Mrs F signed  an application specifically for PPI  the form was 
clear about  what it was for, and it wasnt part and parcel of the mortgage.  Ultimately, Mr and 
Mrs F did have  a responsibility to read what they were signing. It also looks  like they got a 
PPI illustration, which set out what the policy would cost and cover if they chose it; and the 
mortgage offer confirmed  their choice and again set out the PPIs cost separately to the 
mortgages cost.  Finally, I can see Mr F later signed and submitted a form to change the 
policys benefit, so it looks like he was aware  he had it  even if, understandably,  Mr and 
Mrs F may have forgotten about it in the years  since. Overall, I think  Yorkshire made  Mr and 
Mrs F aware  they had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and they chose to take it at the time.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. It did have to give Mr and Mrs F clear information about the PPI.
The cost and benefit of the policy was set out clearly in the PPI illustration and the mortgage  
offer. So I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve understood how much they would need to pay for 
PPI and what it would cover if they chose it.
Ref: DRN82435522It is possible that Yorkshire didnt point out all the main things the policy  wouldnt cover. But 
Mr F doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of those things.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8243552