K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold payment  
protection insurance (PPI) to Mr G. FICL  didnt  actually  sell the policy,  but it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in October  1997  alongside a store  credit  
account. Mr G was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  FICL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  This is because I think it likely  that Mr G was 
working for fewer than 16 hours  a week. This would have made him ineligible  for the PPI 
policy. 
FICL has pointed out that, on the credit  agreement,  Mr G has written that he was working full 
time for a named  employer. However  Mr G has he was on a scheme where he was allowed 
to work a maximum of 16 hours a week but still claim some welfare benefits. On balance, 
having considered Mr Gs account, I do think  it is more likely than not that Mr G was working  
fewer than 16 hours a week.  
fair compensation
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put Mr G in the financial position hed be in 
now if he hadnt taken  out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr G would  have  owed  when he closed his credit 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr G owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr G made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes  him
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr G would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
Ref: DRN80957762rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr G would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr G 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest until the point when Mr G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his credit.  The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mr G what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr G that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. I require Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay compensation  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8095776