K822xcomplaint
Mrs J says the used car she acquired  under a hire purchase agreement with FirstRand Bank
Limited (trading as MotoNovo) wasnt of satisfactory quality. She would like to reject 
the car.
background 
In December  2017 Mrs J acquired a used car via a five year hire purchase  agreement with 
MotoNovo. The car was around 18 months  old and had a mileage of 43,000. Mrs J used  
the car as a private  hire vehicle.
About one week after taking the car it began to make a noise from the engine  so Mrs J 
contacted the dealership. She was asked by the dealership to take the car to main dealer 
for any repairs to be carried out under the warranty.
The garage found there was a problem with an injector and a new part had to be ordered. 
The car was repaired  in February 2018  and returned  to Mrs J. But a short time later the 
car developed problems  again and was taken  back to the garage. Repairs  were  carried  
out to the same injector in March 2018 and again in April 2018.
In May 2018 when similar problems with the car arose again the manufacturer declined to 
do replace the injector for the fourth  time and said the cause of the breakdown needed  to be 
investigated. The garage carried out an investigation and said that it believed the faults 
were caused  by the car being mis-fuelled in the past. It told Mrs J that the cost to repair  the 
damage to the engine would be around £5,000.
In June 2018  Mrs J complained to MotoNovo  about the car. It arranged for the car to be 
inspected by an independent engineer. The independent engineer  prepared  a report which  
said that substantial swarf debris had been  found  in the fuel system and that the fuel should 
be tested. The engineer  said that he couldnt establish at what stage the mis-fuelling  had 
occurred but that the problem could also be due to a general breakdown of the high 
pressure fuel pump.  He wasnt able to fully inspect the pump as the engine would need to 
be stripped. 
However, the engineer concluded taking  the amount of time that had passed since  Mrs J had 
acquired the car (six months),  together with the number of miles the car had been driven 
(9,200) that, on the balance of probabilities, it was unlikely this problem had been developing 
or present at the point of sale.  The independent engineer noted that due to the car being 
used as a private  hire vehicle it wouldve been subject to continuous fuelling.
MotoNovo relied on the independent  engineers  report  and didnt uphold Mrs Js 
complaint. Mrs J complained to this service. Our investigator recommended that her 
complaint should  be upheld.
The investigator said the independent  engineer  had given two possible  reasons for the 
cars faults  and had recommended  that the fuel be tested but there was no evidence that 
this had occurred.  She said there was no conclusive evidence as to what  had caused  the 
fault or when  it had occurred.
The investigator said the car had been  repaired on three occasions, the first being within 
a short  time of Mrs J acquiring it. She thought this suggested that the fault had been 
Ref: DRN81020722either developing or present at the point  of sale. The investigator also said that these  
issues wouldnt be expected with a car that was 18 months old and had a mileage of 
43,000.
The investigator accepted Mrs J had been able to drive  the car for an additional 9,000 
miles since shed acquired  it but agreed  with Mrs Js explanation that the repairs had 
temporarily fixed the problem.
The investigator said that Mrs J should  be able to reject the car, have her deposit repaid 
and any record of the agreement removed from her credit file. Due to the number  of miles 
Mrs J had been able to drive the investigator said it wouldnt  be fair to require  MotoNovo  to 
repay Mrs J her monthly  payments under the agreement.
MotoNovo disagreed with our investigators  view. It said the independent engineers  
report had been clear  that the fault hadnt  been  present at the point of sale. Mrs J said 
she hadnt been able to use the car as intended because only short  journeys could be 
undertaken.
MotoNovo then arranged for the car to be independently inspected for a second time.  The 
engineer saw the car in December 2018  and took a sample of the fuel for testing as 
suggested by the first independent engineer. He noted that the fuel had no abnormal 
colour, odour or swarf visible.
The engineer found that the cars engine was running poorly  and misfiring. The EML was 
illuminated on the dash display. Due to the poor running of the car the engineer didnt take 
it for a test drive.
This independent engineer concluded that he wouldnt be able to comment  as to whether 
the fault had been present at the point  of sale until the fuel has been tested. No test results 
have been received by either  MotoNovo or this service.
As the parties  werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  a car must be of satisfactory quality  at the point of 
sale. And satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect taking  into 
account all the relevant  circumstances such as age, condition and mileage of the car. 
Durability is also part of satisfactory  quality as although no one would expect all the 
components of the car to last forever they also wouldnt reasonably expect issues to arise  
with the car for a period  of time.
If the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality at the point of sale then the retailer would have an 
opportunity to repair. If that wasnt successful then the consumer would be able to reject  the 
car. And where a car was supplied under a finance  agreement  then it was the finance 
company, in this case MotoNovo, who was responsible for dealing  with the fault.
So the issue  for me to decide was whether  or not the fault with the cars engine had been  
present at the time Mrs J acquired it. MotoNovo said that the looking  at what the 
independent engineer had said then it had to have developed afterwards and that possibly 
Mrs J or someone else whod used the car had been  responsible for the mis-fuelling.
Ref: DRN81020723I was unclear as to why the fuel tests hadnt been  made available  or why MotoNovo hadnt  
chased them. But looking at the amount of time that had now passed and the impact this 
was having on Mrs J I thought it was unfair  not to move this complaint  on. I thought  
MotoNovo had had a fair and reasonable opportunity to provide this evidence  and hadnt 
done so. I also thought  that these tests would  have to show very clear evidence  as to what  
the fault with the car was, and when it had arisen  to alter my initial  view of the evidence  Id 
seen.
Mrs J strongly  rejected the suggestion that the car was mis-fuelled  in the time shed had it. 
She said all the fuel receipts  were  kept for tax purposes so she was aware of what  has 
been put into the cars tank. She also said that the car had developed problems within the 
first week shed had it. The garage  took some time to arrange the repairs  which was why 
they werent undertaken until February  2018.
It was agreed that the car had had three  previous visits to the garage for repairs to its 
injectors. These were in February, March and April 2018. It was when the car went back 
again in May that further investigation  as to the cause of the problem was put in place.
The first independent engineer  said he wasnt able to establish when and if the mis-
fuelling had occurred as there were  two possible causes  for the cars fault; that was either 
the car had been mis-fuelled or that thered been a general failure of high pressure pump. 
So I didnt  think  there was definitive  evidence that mis-fuelling was the cause.
The first independent engineer  had gone  to say that it was unlikely that the fault wouldve 
been present  or developing at the point of sale as Mrs J had been able to drive the car 
for
9,000 in the six months shed had it. But the engineer made  no reference as to the impact  
the earlier repairs wouldve had on Mrs Js ability to use the car. And MotoNovo hadnt  
disputed that new injectors were fitted. I thought this was too important  a factor  not to be 
addressed as I thought most people wouldve expect that those repairs  wouldve played  a 
part in the continued use of the car. I thought the engineers conclusion was therefore 
open to question.
If the car hadnt been subjected to mis-fuelling, and the issue  was due to a general failure of 
the high pressure fuel pump  then the independent engineer hadnt addressed whether this 
would be due to wear  and tear and would be a reasonably expected  failure for a car of that 
age and mileage.
While I accepted  mileage of 43,000  was higher  than average for an 18 month  old car I 
didnt think it was so substantially higher that more issues with wear  and tear would be 
expected. The car was relatively new.
I also accepted that a car being  used for private  hire would be expected to be driven  more  
than the average  of 1000 miles per month.  But Id seen that Mrs J was able to manage 
around 1840 miles per month in the six months  up to the inspection. Again I didnt  think this 
would lead to issues with wear and tear arising  far earlier than would be expected.
So I wasnt  persuaded by the evidence of the first independent engineer  that the car was of 
satisfactory condition at the point of sale. The second independent engineer had declined 
to give an opinion on this.
Ref: DRN81020724So Im intended  to uphold  Mrs Js complaint and as MotoNovo had had opportunities to 
repair the car I thought it was fair for Mrs J to now reject it. MotoNovo would need to  
arrange to collect  the car at no cost to Mrs J, repay her the deposit paid and end the 
agreement with nothing  further to pay.
Mrs J was unable to use the car as shed planned. She had also provided an invoice for 
further repairs that had been carried out in August 2018 but which  were  ultimately  
unsuccessful. The mileage by then was 52,225.  Mrs J said she had tried to get the car 
working so had had no choice other than to arrange  these repairs and I thought it would  be 
fair for MotoNovo  to reimburse  this cost to her.
Mrs J had asked that she was repaid her monthly  payments. But I didnt think she should 
get all of the monthly repayments back as the car has been used and it was fair that the 
usage was paid for. At the inspection in December 2018 the car had had a mileage of 
53,600 and its current mileage is still 53,600 meaning it hasnt been driven since then.
Although Mrs J had wanted  to use the car as a private hire car rather than just for 
domestic and pleasure use I didnt think I could fairly hold MotoNovo  responsible  for her 
not being able to use the car for that purpose. So looking at the mileage I thought it was 
fair for MotoNovo  to repay Mrs J any payments shed made under the agreement  from 
and including  December  2018.
MotoNovo should  also reimburse Mrs J the costs incurred to pay for the cars road tax 
and insurance  from December 2018  to date. Mrs J will need to provide documentary  
proof of those costs  to MotoNovo.
Both Miss J and MotoNovo have agreed  with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mrs J nor MotoNovo  have asked me to look at anything again  or sent in other 
evidence. Reviewing the evidence that was provided I havent changed my view and for the 
reasons given above Im upholding Mrs Js complaint.
Im asking MotoNovo  to collect  the car and end the agreement, repay  Mrs Js deposit with 
interest if applicable, reimburse the costs of repairing the injector in August 2018 together 
with interest, reimburse any monthly payments made under the agreement from and 
including December 2018 with interest,  reimburse  the costs incurred insuring the car from 
December 2018  to date (once proof of that cost has been provided) with interest and 
reimburse the costs  incurred by for the cars road tax from December to date (once proof of 
that cost has been provided) with interest.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Js complaint.  Im asking FirstRand  Bank  
Limited to do the following:
  Collect  the car at no cost to Mrs J.
  End the agreement with nothing  further to pay.
Ref: DRN81020725 Ensure there is no adverse information recorded on Mrs Js credit  file in respect  of 
this agreement.  
 Repay Mrs J the part-exchange deposit  of £5,750
 Repay Mrs Js cash  deposit of £1,000 together with interest  at the rate of 8% 
per year simple  from the date of payment until the date of settlement. (Unless  this 
sum was provided by the dealership).
 Reimburse Mrs J the £566.40  spent repairing the injector in August 2018  together 
with interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement.
 Reimburse any monthly  payments  made under the agreement  from and 
including December 2018.  Interest is to be added  to that amount at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
 Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs J insuring the car from December 2018 to 
date once proof of that cost has been  provided. This repayment is to have  interest 
added at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of payment until the date of 
settlement.
 Reimburse the costs incurred by Mrs J covering the cars  road tax from 
December 2018  to date once  proof  of that cost has been provided. This 
repayment is to have interest added at the rate of 8% per year simple from the 
date of payment  until the date of settlement.
If FirstRand Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold  
income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mrs J how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mrs J a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8102072