K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a number of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out or 
amended alongside a mortgage and further  advances between 1995  and 2003. The policies 
all covered Mr L only. Mr and Mrs L say Newcastle Building Society  (Newcastle)  mis-sold 
them the PPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs L and Newcastle a provisional  decision  on 14 February  2019  to explain 
why I wasnt intending  to require Newcastle to refund the full cost of the PPI. An extract from 
my provisional decision is set out below:
When selling the PPI, Newcastle had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs L that they had a 
choice about it. But Mr and Mrs L say they were  told they had to have the PPI in order to get 
certain mortgage deals.
1995 sale
Mr and Mrs L initially took out PPI with a mortgage in 1995.
Newcastle has sent us a copy of a PPI application  form, signed  by Mr and Mrs L. There are 
boxes on this form to select the level of cover  required, and the box for accident, sickness 
and unemployment  cover has been ticked.  The form also says that Mr L is to be covered by 
the policy.
Newcastle has also sent us copies of the mortgage  application form, mortgage offer letter  
and PPI policy summary. But theres nothing on any of these forms which  suggests  that PPI 
was required as part of the mortgage.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  that Newcastle made it clear to Mr and Mrs L 
that they had a choice about the PPI here. And that Mr and Mrs L chose  to take it, knowing 
they didnt have to.
1997 sale
Mr and Mrs L took out further  PPI with a further  advance in 1997.
Newcastle has sent us a copy of the further advance application  form. This included a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes  to be ticked to show whether  Mr and Mrs L wanted 
to take it out. And the yes  box has been  ticked.  A box has also been ticked to show  that 
only Mr L is to be covered by the PPI.
Newcastle has also sent us copies of the offer of further advance and the PPI policy 
summary. But theres nothing on any of these which suggests that PPI was required as part 
of the further advance.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think its likely  Newcastle made it clear to Mr and Mrs L that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that they chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
Ref: DRN87582262mortgage transfer
Mr and Mrs L applied to transfer their mortgage  to a different  interest rate towards  the end of 
1997. Newcastle  has sent us a copy of the mortgage transfer request form, signed by Mr 
and Mrs L. This says that, in order to get the lowest interest rate, Mr and Mrs L must have 
one of buildings insurance, contents insurance  or PPI.
As Mr and Mrs L already  had PPI, they already  met this requirement.  And it doesnt  appear 
that any further PPI was sold at this point. So I havent considered  what happened during 
this transfer any further.
Mr and Mrs L wrote to Newcastle and asked to amend their existing PPI at the beginning of 
1998. Newcastle  has sent us a copy of the change  of cover request form signed by Mr and 
Mrs L, which shows they asked to remove the unemployment cover and the £100 additional 
benefit. Newcastle  appears to have followed Mr and Mrs Ls instructions to amend the cover. 
But it doesnt appear that Newcastle gave Mr and Mrs L any advice  about  the PPI or any 
further PPI was sold at this point. So I havent  considered what happened here any further.
1999 sale
Mr and Mrs L took out two new PPI policies with a new mortgage  and further  borrowing in 
early 1999.  One policy covered the mortgage and the other  covered the further borrowing.
Newcastle has sent us a copy of the mortgage application form. This included a section  on 
PPI, with yes and no boxes to show  whether Mr and Mrs L wanted  to take it out. And the 
yes box has been ticked. There are also boxes ticked to show  Mr and Mrs L selected cover  
for accident and sickness and wanted £100  additional cover.
Newcastle has also sent us a copy of a PPI application form, showing Mr and Mrs L would 
like to take out PPI, and signed by Mr and Mrs L.
Newcastle has sent us a copy of a mortgage  rates leaflet from the time which  shows  that, to 
get the lowest interest rate, customers  had to have one of buildings insurance, contents 
insurance or PPI. Mr and Mrs L would  therefore  have had to take out one of these three 
insurances to get the lowest interest  rate. But, if they didnt want PPI, they could  have taken 
out either buildings or contents  insurance  instead and still got the lowest rate. And, if they 
didnt want to take out any of the insurances, they could have taken  a different interest rate 
or applied  for a different  mortgage. So I dont think this means  Mr and Mrs L werent given a 
choice about the PPI, or that the PPI was mis-sold  here.
2002 sale
Mr and Mrs L took out a further PPI policy with a further advance  towards the end of 2002.
Newcastle has sent us a copy of the further advance application  form. This included a 
section on PPI, with yes  and no boxes to show whether Mr and Mrs L wanted to take it 
out. And there  is a tick in the yes box. There are also boxes ticked to show  they only 
wanted Mr L to be covered  and selected  accident  and sickness  cover.
Newcastle has also sent us copies of the offer of further advance,  but I dont think theres 
anything on this or the application form which suggests PPI is required.
Ref: DRN87582263mortgage conversion
Mr and Mrs L wrote to Newcastle to ask for their mortgage to be converted to a repayment 
mortgage. And this was completed in early  2003.
Newcastle appears  to have amended Mr and Mrs Ls existing PPI to cover their new 
mortgage payment.  But it doesnt appear  that Newcastle gave Mr and Mrs L any advice 
about the PPI or any further PPI was sold at this point. So I havent considered what  
happened here any further.
all sales
I havent seen  clear evidence that Newcastle gave Mr and Mrs L any personalised advice 
about any of the PPI sales.  So I dont  think Newcastle  recommended  the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs L. This means it didnt  have  to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to 
make sure Mr and Mrs L got the information they needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
them.
Its possible the information Newcastle gave Mr and Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances at the time of the 
sales, it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. And the policies couldve paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs L have told us Mr L 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. So they would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong.
Mortgages and secured  loans are also serious  financial commitments.  And Mr and Mrs Ls 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed  to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policies offered appealing. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs L off 
taking it out.
Mr and Mrs L have mentioned that they tried to claim on the PPI but Newcastle refused to 
pay out. If Mr and Mrs L want to make a retrospective claim, or complain about a specific  
claim being turned down,  they should contact Newcastle directly. But, as I explained above, 
it doesnt look like Mr L was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
So I dont  think this means the PPI was mis-sold.
Which means Newcastle doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Newcastle will pay back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because :
Newcastle got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premiums) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Newcastle didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Newcastle has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premiums - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
I set out what I intended to require Newcastle to do to put things right, and I said Id consider 
any further evidence  either Mr and Mrs L or Newcastle sent it.
Ref: DRN87582264Newcastle said it didnt  have anything further  to add. Mr and Mrs L said that they always  
dealt with the same advisor at Newcastle and so trusted what  they were  told by them.  
Theyve also said that they were consistently told they had to have the PPI and that they 
always reduced their cover to take as little PPI as they could.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence available in incomplete  or inconclusive I must make  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened, based on the evidence  I do have.
I understand that Mr and Mrs L feel strongly  that they were told they had to have the PPI. 
But firstly, this is correct for mortgage  transfer  in 1997 and the sale from 1999 as Mr and 
Mrs L had to take PPI to get the lowest interest  rate. So they may just be remembering those 
sales.
And secondly, they havent given us much detail about what happened  or what was said at 
any of the specific  sales. I dont think this is unreasonable due to the amount of time that has 
passed since the sales. But it does mean that I dont think  theres enough evidence for me to 
say that Newcastle told them they had to have the PPI, particularly in light of the 
documentary evidence  Newcastle has provided  from each of the sales  showing that the 
forms gave Mr and Mrs L a choice  about it.
Mr and Mrs L did reduce their level of PPI cover at certain points. But theres nothing  from 
the time to suggest they were only reducing  it rather than cancelling  it, because  they felt they 
still had to have  some level of PPI. And I dont think reducing the level of cover or selecting 
the lowest level of cover necessarily means the customers  think they have  to have some 
level of PPI.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I still think its likely that Newcastle did give Mr and Mrs L 
a choice about the PPI, and made it clear to them when they needed to take PPI to get a 
lower interest rate.
As neither Mr and Mrs L or Newcastle raised  any further arguments in respect of the other 
conclusions I made  in my provisional decision, I still think  those conclusions  are correct too.
So I still dont think Newcastle should have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But I do 
think Newcastle should have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI, for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
Newcastle should  pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums. Newcastle should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs L any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Ref: DRN87582265Newcastle should  pay back to Mr and Mrs L the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Newcastle should 
also pay Mr and Mrs L 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Newcastle Building Society doesnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Newcastle Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8758226