K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  turned down his retail price  protection  
policy. Such policies  are commonly referred  to as guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
policies. So, for ease Ill refer to it as being a GAP policy in this decision.
Reference to Ageas  includes  its agents.
background
Mr C bought a new car and took out a GAP policy. The car was damaged in a non-fault 
accident and deemed a total loss. Mr C claimed on his GAP policy.  Ageas refused the claim. 
Mr C didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2019. For ease I've copied my provisional 
decision findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
Mr Cs policy  says that Ageas won't pay a claim where the car is: owned by a garage, 
Vehicle trader or any other associated Vehicle trade company. Ageas said that as Mr C is a 
company director of a company involved in trading in car parts (the company),  he is a 
vehicle trader and as such it won't pay his claim. But I don't  think thats fair.
It is the case that Mr C is the director of a company that trades in vehicle parts. Mr C and the 
company are separate  entities; the fact that Mr C might  buy something doesn't  mean  hes 
bought it for the benefit of the company. Ive seen  the sales receipt for the car concerned 
and its clear that Mr C bought this as an individual. It has his name  and private address on it 
with standard  VAT added.  If it had been bought  for the benefit  of the company then I would  
have expected the invoice  to be addressed to the company, it's not. So I don't think the car 
was owned by the company. 
Mr Cs also said that it was his wife who primarily used the car. And Ive seen that the motor  
insurance on the car is in Mrs Cs name,  with Mr C as a named driver.  So I think that shows  
that the car was primarily for his wifes use. And I think that indicates  its principal use was as 
a private car for Mr and Mrs Cs personal use. So I think the car was owned by Mr C as a 
private person,  rather than in his role as company director. Similarly, I think the GAP  policy  
was bought to protect Mr Cs interests  in his car for private use, rather  than to protect  the 
interests of the company.
It seems  to me that the policy term Ageas is relying  on was designed  to exclude claims 
where the car is used as a benefit  to or asset of a business. Im satisfied  thats not the case 
here and the car and GAP  policy were  bought  for personal use. So I don't think  its fair for 
Ageas to rely on the above exclusion,  simply because Mr C is the director  of a company that 
trades in car parts.
It follows that I think Ageas should settle Mr Cs claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should  add simple interest to any settlement at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date it makes payment.
Neither Mr C nor Ageas commented on my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN87398262my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
As neither Mr C nor Ageas objected  to my provisional findings I see no reason to change 
them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to 
settle Mr Cs claim on his retail price protection policy, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. It should  add simple interest to any settlement at a rate of 8% a year 
from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date it makes payment1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Ageas considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN8739826