K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr E and Miss M say The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold 
them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr E and Miss Ms case.
RBS has accepted the policy wasnt suitable  for Miss M so it has paid Mr E and Miss M back 
what they paid for her part of the policy. So I have  only considered  Mr Es part of this 
complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
RBS had to make Mr E and Miss M aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. I cant be certain what  was said at the time Mr E and 
Miss M applied for their mortgage and PPI but RBS has sent us a copy of the available 
paperwork. Mr E and Miss M completed and signed an application for PPI that was separate 
to their mortgage. So I think RBS made it clear that Mr E and Miss M didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant 
remember this.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr E and Miss M so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr E and Miss M got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr E and Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  Mr E 
had to make  the repayments which included sick pay and savings. But the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to, and for longer than Mr Es sick pay. It would also have allowed Mr E 
to keep his savings in place to be used towards  other essential expenses. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Es circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for Mr E and Miss M if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Miss M.
But RBS will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Miss M because:  
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr E and Miss M about that. Because RBS didnt tell 
Mr E and Miss M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN82909772To put that right, RBS has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
RBS has to pay back to Mr E and Miss M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. RBS should  also pay back to Mr E and Miss M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
RBS should pay back to Mr E and Miss M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. RBS should  also 
pay Mr E and Miss M 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E and Miss M can claim back the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Miss M.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr E and Miss M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8290977