K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to protect a
mortgage in 2000. Mr and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings 
HSBC had to make  Mr and Mrs H aware the PPI was optional  and gain their consent before 
adding it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H have told us they were led to believe it would be 
more difficult for them to get their mortgage  without  taking the policy.  I cant be certain what 
was said at the time Mr and Mrs H applied  for their mortgage  and PPI, but HSBC  has 
provided us with a copy of the available paperwork.  Mr and Mrs H signed an application  form 
separate to their mortgage to take the PPI policy so, I think  they would have known the 
policy was separate  to their mortgage  and they chose to take it out. I dont have  enough to 
say HSBC told them it would be more difficult to obtain the mortgage  without it.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr H has told us he was self-employed when he took the policy  but having checked  
the policy terms and conditions, I have found  that this wouldnt make it more  difficult  to make  
a claim.  Mrs H has told us that she doesnt have details of her sick pay entitlement at the 
time and that neither Mr or Mrs H had any other  means of making their repayments. But the 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs H would  have received. So, I think 
they had a need for the cover,  and it was right for them.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been,  and they have told us making the payments for the policy  put additional 
strain on their finances. But they chose to take out the policy - so it looks like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. So, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI would have put them off taking out
the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 November  2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8299609