K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mr M holds with Bank of Scotland  plc (trading  as 
Halifax). Mr M says the mortgage was mis-sold.
background
Mr M took out this mortgage in early 2004.  Due to the passage  of time theres limited 
paperwork available now, but it seems Mr M originally applied  for £45,000, but after a 
mortgage offer was issued for that amount he asked to increase the mortgage. 
An amended  mortgage offer was issued  in January 2004 for £70,000 on a repayment basis  
over a 25-year term. The mortgage was taken  on a rate that tracked 0.6%  above base rate 
until 30 April 2006 and thereafter would be charged at Halifaxs variable rate. The initial 
monthly payment  was shown to be just over £380.
Mr M complained to Halifax in 2018.  Halifax initially said the complaint had been brought  too 
late, but after an intervention from our adjudicator Halifax  agreed we could look at it.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld, and wrote setting out his 
reasons why. Mr M didnt  agree and so the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr M wont  take it as a discourtesy 
that Ive condensed his complaint  in the way that I have. Ours is an informal  dispute 
resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What  this 
means is that we dont  represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions  on how a complaint will be looked at.
The mortgage was taken out before the sale of residential mortgages became regulated on 
31 October 2004. I must  consider the complaint according to standards  and practices 
prevailing at the time of the sale; I cant apply later standards  retrospectively.  The prevailing 
standards at the time were set out in The Mortgage  Code.
There were three levels of service at the time; advice and recommendation, information on 
the different  types of mortgage products, and information about  a single product only. 
Unfortunately, again due to the passage of time we dont know which  level of service Mr M 
received.
Mr M has raised various heads of complaint, most  of them  of the generic nature that are 
available to download as standard complaint letters from the internet. This can make it 
difficult to get to the bottom of the consumers true concerns. The things  Mr M has 
complained about werent inherently wrong  at the time he took the mortgage so dont 
necessarily mean it was mis-sold. Any of those elements in themselves might  make a 
mortgage unsuitable, but equally they might not. We consider each case on its individual  
Ref: DRN88177072merits and look at the circumstances, regulatory  requirements and standard industry practice 
at the time. We also think about what difference any potential shortcomings  in the sales  
process, assuming  we find some, would have made.
For instance, Mr M has said his attitude  to risk wasnt established and other  repayment  
options werent discussed. But as Mr M took a repayment mortgage and theres no indication  
he had any way of repaying an interest-only  mortgage at the end of the term, then these 
points are moot. As even  if I were  to conclude Halifax did something wrong, on balance  its 
likely Mr M would have still taken a repayment mortgage. 
Mr M has said there was no affordability  assessment  and the mortgage was taken  on a 
self-certification basis. But hes also said he was asked to provide three months bank  
statements and his employers name  and address, which  contradicts  those claims as those 
two things combined are used to complete an affordability assessment and an income 
check.
Mr M has also said he was not given options  of different mortgage type by the Halifax,  I was 
only given one option of 25 year plan of repayment  mortgage to consolidate all debts only. 
But the evidence  shows to the contrary, as the original application put forward  didnt include 
consolidating all his debts, so he wasnt  given only that one option by Halifax.
Having considered everything  it seems Mr Ms main area of concern is that the increase  in 
the mortgage application (from £45,000  to £70,000)  was for debt consolidation and he thinks 
Halifax should have  warned him about the implications of that.
Ive considered this point  carefully but on balance Im not persuaded by it. The original 
application put forward was for £45,000  and that went so far that Halifax issued a mortgage 
offer on that basis. We dont know what happened  after that which  led to the amended 
mortgage offer being issued for £70,000, but its unlikely  that was due to advice received 
from Halifax. 
I say this because  if Halifax had advised Mr M to consolidate his debts then it would  have 
done so when submitting the original  application (so there would only ever have been a 
£70,000 application and offer, and not one for £45,000). The fact the application was for 
£45,000 and was later increased leads me to conclude this was most likely  done at Mr Ms 
request, rather than on Halifaxs advice. I cant say that for sure, but in cases  like this when a 
consumer has left it so long to complain so that theres limited paperwork available  I have to 
reach a decision  based  on what I think most likely happened; and I think it most likely - 
based on what we do know  and standard industry  practice at that time - that Halifax  didnt 
advise Mr M that he should consolidate  his debts.
That said,  even if this was an advised  sale, the Mortgage Code wasnt as prescriptive as the 
rules post-mortgage  regulation. There was no specific  guidance in terms of debt 
consolidation like there is now,  and there  was certainly no stated requirement  for a lender to 
specifically explain that exchanging short term debts for a long term debt would lengthen the 
term of the debt and vastly increase  the amount of interest paid. All the adviser needed  to do 
was ensure the mortgage fitted the consumers needs, and that could be done by including 
debt consolidation  just because the consumer  expressed a wish to reduce their monthly  
repayments, for example.
I do appreciate that this isnt the case today  because lending  rules have changed, but I have 
to consider the complaint  on the basis of the lending standards applicable at the time. On 
Ref: DRN88177073that basis, Im not persuaded that Halifax did anything materially  wrong in arranging this 
mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 December  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8817707