K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Billing Finance  Ltd (Billing Finance)  were wrong to provide credit to him as he 
clearly couldnt afford the repayments.  He also says the finance  agreement shouldnt be 
binding as it was clear he couldnt  comply  with it.
background
In December 2016 Mr H took receipt  of a used  car. He financed the deal through a 60 month 
hire purchase agreement with Billing Finance but he says the finance shouldnt have been 
provided as it was clearly  unaffordable. He says he had a bad credit record and had recently  
been refused  a loan and a credit  card. He said he was due to retire in June  2018  and from 
that point on he would  be relying solely on his pension  income  of just over £1,000 per month. 
He said this meant the credit provided  by Billing  Finance  was irresponsibly lent.
Mr H says he originally applied to be a guarantor on his daughters loan but when  his 
daughter failed the affordability checks he was coerced by the sales  agent to take out the 
agreement on his own.
He also says Billing Finance shouldnt have advanced the credit as he wasnt the registered  
keeper of the car; hed never had a driving license and the car wasnt  even kept at his 
address: it was at his daughters who was also the driver of the vehicle throughout the 
arrangement. He said he therefore  wasnt able to comply with the terms of the finance 
arrangement as he couldnt have  ever insured the car.
The car was impounded by the police in November 2017 and Billing  Finance came  to 
understand that Mr H wasnt the registered keeper and wasnt  insured for the car. They  
therefore sent an insurance  default notice to him and eventually  terminated the finance 
agreement asking Mr H to settle the balance  of the agreement. The car was subsequently 
sold and the proceeds reduced the outstanding balance which  then stood at just under 
£10,000. 
Mr H was unable to resolve the issue  with Billing Finance. They  insisted that the credit had 
been provided irresponsibly and they said that they were  within  their rights  to terminate the 
contract when it became  clear that the car wasnt insured. 
So Mr H referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
didnt think the loan had been irresponsible. He thought Billing  Finance had carried out 
appropriate checks before  approving the credit.  Theyd looked at Mr Hs income by checking  
his payslips and clarifying his pension  income.  They also looked  at his outgoings and had 
considered his credit file before approving the loan. Theyd considered  some  previous 
defaults and noted that the balance on these  accounts had improved significantly. They also 
noted that settled  accounts on his file, and his mortgage account, had been well managed 
and thered been no missed payments. So the investigator thought  they were right to 
consider Mr Hs application low risk. 
He didnt think they needed  to pay particular attention to Mr Hs impending  retirement as he 
said theyd considered it in their overall  analysis and it may have been  discriminatory  to 
refuse the credit on the basis of Mr Hs age alone.
He went on to consider  whether the fact Mr H didnt have a driving license  and couldnt  have  
insured the car meant the terms of the hire purchase agreement  werent applicable to him. 
Ref: DRN83405512But he didnt  agree. He said Mr H had a duty under the finance  agreement to get the vehicle 
insured and his failure to do so was a breach of the contract. He also thought it was clear 
Mr H had breached the contract as he wasnt the registered keeper of the vehicle. In those 
circumstances he thought Billing Finance had been right to terminate the agreement  when 
the insurance wasnt arranged and overall,  he didnt think there was any reason to ask them  
to take any further  action.
But Mr H disagreed. He insisted they were  wrong to hold him to a contract he couldnt 
comply with because  he wasnt licensed or the registered keeper. And he thought  they 
should have paid more attention to the fact he was due to retire and that his retirement 
pension would be insufficient. He therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr H so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired  this car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
was Mr H liable for the contract?
Mr H says that because  he didnt have a driving  license and wasnt  the registered keeper of 
the car he shouldnt be held liable  for the contract hed formed  with Billing  Finance. 
I dont agree. I dont  think there was any specific duty on Billing  Finance to check that Mr H 
had a driving license. Its true that some companies  may check if a driving  license has been 
issued but I dont think they have  to. Regardless, I dont think it would be fair not to 
recognise that Mr H knew he didnt have a driving  license and would, I think its reasonable 
to say, have realised a requirement of the finance  agreement was for the car to be 
comprehensively insured and kept at his address. Mr H didnt comply with either  of these 
contractual terms and I therefore think Billing Finance acted reasonably  when they defaulted 
the account and eventually terminated  the agreement.
was the deal misrepresented to Mr H?
Mr H has said that the dealer was aware  he wasnt going to be driving the car and that he 
accepted that it would be Mr Hs daughter who would take over payments  after a few 
months. He says the dealer coerced him into making his finance application. But in the 
absence of any further evidence I dont think it would be reasonable to suggest this was the 
Ref: DRN83405513case and that the deal was misrepresented  to Mr H. The terms of the finance  agreement 
clearly set out Mr Hs sole responsibility for repaying  it. In signing the agreement  I think its 
fair to suggest Mr H would  probably  have been  aware of that; especially as a previous 
agreement in joint names had not been approved by Billing Finance.
was the credit provided irresponsibly?
Billing Finance  had a responsibility  to carry out checks that complied with the rules and 
guidelines in force at the time. Since 1 April 2014  the rules  and guidelines have been the 
chapter on responsible lending in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (chapter  5). These regulations say that a lender must consider the customers  
ability to make repayments as they fall due, but they also say that affordability checks  should 
be proportionate. What is considered proportionate depends on factors  such  as the size of 
the loan, the amount of the repayments, and what Billing Finance knew about Mr H and 
about his circumstances. 
Mr H says that Billing Finance should have  paid more attention to his impending retirement.
I think Billing Finance  needed to consider Mr Hs ability to make repayments  over the lifetime 
of the loan and not just at the point of approval.  But I think they were  also within their rights 
to consider what age Mr H was likely to be able to work to. He was 64 when he applied  for 
the credit  and the term of the loan was five years. So I dont  think  it was unrealistic to 
consider he would be able to work until he was 70 and I think to consider otherwise would 
have been a little unreasonable. It may, for instance, have been discriminatory. 
Ive looked at whether Billing Finance carried out proportionate checks, and at what  
information they had been given about  Mr Hs financial circumstances. The methods  they 
used to establish affordability were for them to decide but the practices and procedures they 
used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could be proportionate to the 
amount of money  being requested.
Ive been provided  with a copy of their underwriting  criteria.  I wont share the details  of these 
criteria as I think theyre commercially sensitive and, as this decision is published,  Id not 
want them  to get into the wrong hands.  However, having reviewed the underwriting criteria  I 
think they suggest reasonable and proportionate  checks.
I can see that, in making their decision,  Billing Finance considered Mr Hs income from a pay 
slip and his pension statement. They also considered his likely outgoings through 
information on his credit file and also taking  into account what they reasonably considered  
would be average  general living expenses. They concluded that his income was within  
requirements and that he could  afford the repayments. Im persuaded that those checks  
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances.
They noted  his recent defaults and have explained  that they made a decision to lend as 
although the value of these defaults was a little higher than they would usually consider 
acceptable, it was clear Mr H had managed repayments well and his position  was improving. 
I think that shows they gave due consideration  to the defaults  and Mr Hs overall credit 
performance before making a decision to approve the loan and I dont  think it would be fair to 
suggest they were  wrong in making the decision to approve the credit. Their checks again 
appear proportionate and quite comprehensive in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN83405514So overall, I dont  think theres evidence here that Billing Finance did anything wrong and I 
wont be asking them to take any additional action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8340551