K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC stopped reporting his current account to the credit  
reference agencies,  with the result  that his application to a third party for a loan was 
rejected.
background 
Mr B opened  a current account  with Lloyds in 1977.  In 2014 Lloyds began  reporting data 
about this account (and other  old accounts) to a credit reference agency, but then stopped 
doing so once it realised that it did not have its customers  consent to share their data. In 
2018 Mr B applied to a third party for a loan, but he says his application  was declined 
because his account was no longer being  reported  on his credit  file. So he blames Lloyds for 
this.
When Mr B complained to Lloyds,  it initially told him that his account was not being reported 
because he had opened it in 2011, which  was clearly wrong. Lloyds has since  apologised for 
this and paid him £50 (although I note that it repeated its error in the same  letter  in which  it 
apologised). But it maintained that as the account pre-dated  the formation of the credit  
reference agencies  in 1989,  it couldnt  report the account on Mr Bs credit  file.
Mr B brought this complaint to our Service. He wanted the bank to resume  reporting his 
account on his credit file.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Bs complaint, because the terms and conditions of the account  
in force  from October  2018 stated that data about  the account  could be shared with credit  
reference agencies.  So whatever the position  had been in 1989 or 2014,  the bank had 
Mr Bs consent to share his data now. The investigator recommended that the bank resume 
reporting Mr Bs account, backdated to whenever  the accounts  terms and conditions had 
first allowed  this. He also recommended that the bank pay Mr B £200  for his trouble, in 
addition to the £50 it had already paid him for the error it had admitted  (which he thought 
was fair compensation for that issue).
The bank did not object to this recommendation in principle,  but it asked for time to 
investigate whether it would be possible to resume reporting the account. That was in 
February 2019. In April the bank asked for more time. In September  this case  was assigned 
to me for an ombudsmans  decision, and on 11 September  I asked the bank for an update, 
since we had not heard from it since 12 April. I have not received a reply.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I uphold it, for the same reason  as the 
investigator, and I agree  with his proposed  redress.
Lloyds has reported  Mr Bs account  to the credit  reference agencies  before, and so I infer 
that it would  be possible to do so again.  The account  terms and conditions  in effect since 
October 2018 (and probably since earlier than that) permit Lloyds to report the account,  and 
Mr B agreed to those  new terms and conditions when they were introduced, just as he 
agreed to all of the previous versions.  So Lloyds has his authority to do so. I therefore  
conclude that it would  be fair to order Lloyds to do so.
Ref: DRN87057902Since the delay  in implementing this solution is because Lloyds has not responded since 12 
April, I will award  simple  interest on the compensation from that date.
my final decision
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Resume reporting Mr Bs account to the credit reference agency or agencies  as 
before.
Pay Mr B £200 (in addition to the £50 it has paid him already).
Pay Mr B simple  interest on the sum of £200  at eight per cent a year, from 12 April 
2019 to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8705790