K821x#15Complaint
Mr P complains that an appointed representative of Intrinsic  Financial  Planning Ltd (now 
called Quilter Financial Services Ltd) gave him unsuitable advice to switch  his existing 
pensions to a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP) and make investments in an 
unregulated investment called Sustainable AgroEnergy (SAE).  He thinks  Intrinsic is 
responsible for the advice and that it should  accordingly compensate  him for the loss he has 
suffered. A legal representative (the representative) has made the complaint on Mr Ps 
behalf. 
Background
Mr P says he was approached at his place of work  by a Mr B. At the time, Mr B worked  for 
Gwent and Forest Mortgage  Centre. Mr P says Mr B told him he could increase his pension  
if he opened a SIPP and invested  in SAE.  He also says Mr B told him the SAE investment 
was secure and that Mr B himself was investing  in it. 
Mr P agreed to switch  his existing pensions to a SIPP. He then completed some  application  
forms. The value of his existing pensions was then switched  to a SIPP with the SIPP 
operator, and an investment  was made  in SAE using  the majority  of the money.  The process 
began in July 2011 and concluded in February 2012, when the SAE investment was made.  
The available documents (which Ill detail  below)  do not mention Gwent  and Forest  Mortgage 
Centre. They instead mention Ideal Financial Planning or Ideal Group. 
Gwent & Forest Mortgage Centre was an appointed  representative of Intrinsic  Financial 
Planning Ltd from 15 January 2009 until 22 June 2016 and Intrinsic  Mortgage Planning  Ltd 
from15 January 2009 until 22 June 2016.
Ideal Financial Planning  was an appointed  representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning  Ltd 
from 1 March 2006 until 10 October  2017 and Intrinsic Mortgage Planning Ltd from 24 April 
2007 until 10 October 2017.
So, at the time of the events subject  to complaint, Ideal Financial Planning  and Gwent & 
Forest Mortgage  Centre were both ARs of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd, which  Ill refer to 
as Quilter from herein,  as its name has changed. 
Quilter disputes that it is responsible for Mr Ps loss. It says:
Mr P is not a client of Quilter.
It holds no documentation  in respect of any recommendation made  to Mr P and has 
received no payment  in respect of any recommendation.
Mr B was authorised  as a mortgage adviser  and not authorised to provide advice on 
pensions.
Ideal Financial Planning did request information from one of Mr Ps pension  providers 
following a referral,  however this did not result in any business being transacted  by it. 
The Ideal  Group is not and has never been an appointed representative of Quilter. 
Ref: DRN83114342The person  (a Ms M) referred to in some of the SIPP application  paperwork  is not 
and has never been  a Registered Individual (i.e. an advisor) with Quilter.
The SIPP operator has confirmed to Ideal Financial Planning  it has been removed 
from the SIPP operators records as there is no agreement with it in place and no 
business has ever been  transacted with Ideal Financial Planning. 
Weve been provided with copies of the following  documents which  I consider to be relevant:
A letter dated 27 July 2011 from Ideal Financial Planning  to Scottish Widows, 
requesting information  about one of Mr Ps existing pensions.
The SIPP operator SIPP application  form, signed by Mr P on 26 October 2011. That 
form asks Mr P to Please complete your advisers information.  The advisers name 
is filled out as Mr B, the firm named as Ideal Group  and the FSA reference  number  
is 224979  Ideal Financial Planning Limited.
Part of the SIPP operators  alternative  investment letter, which gives  the details of 
Mr B in the advisor/introducer section. That letter also includes the following 
declaration: 
I acknowledge that I have been offered the opportunity to seek professional financial
advice however I have  chosen not to seek advice for this transaction.
A transfer discharge form for one of Mr Ps existing pensions  signed on 26 October 
2011 by Mr P, and witnessed by Mr B.  
Various annual statements issued by the SIPP operator in relation to the SIPP,  which 
say that the introducer contact  and investment contact is a Ms M at Ideal Group. 
There is no company registered  with the name Ideal Group, and no entry in the FCAs 
database for a business of that name.  
Our investigator looked into things and concluded Mr Ps complaint was one we could 
consider against  Quilter,  and should be upheld. She said, in summary: 
It is clear that this complaint is about the suitability of the advice to switch to a SIPP  
in order to make an investment. Advice on a personal pension scheme is a regulated 
activity. 
She was satisfied Mr B had given advice to Mr P. Mr P wasnt an experienced 
investor so it was very unlikely that he would  have switched  his pensions to a SIPP in 
order to invest into an esoteric investment unless he had been  advised to. And there 
is no evidence that anyone else advised Mr P.
The evidence available supports Mr Ps recollection that he was led to believe Mr B 
was representing  Ideal Financial Planning. She also thought Mr B likely was 
representing Ideal  Financial Planning, as its not clear  why otherwise its FSA number 
was used on the SIPP application form. 
Ref: DRN83114343The only other option is that Mr B was acting for Gwent & Forest Mortgage  Centre  
when providing  the advice.  That business  was also an appointed representative of 
Quilter. 
Quilter did authorise Ideal Financial Planning (and Gwent and Forest Mortgage 
Centre) to advise  on investments and arrange  deals  in investments. 
She had considered the argument that Quilter only authorised  its appointed  
representative to give investment  advice through advisers who were  registered 
individuals it had authorised to give investment advice.
But the agreement  shows it was the appointed representative that was given 
authority for the regulated activity of advising on investments. So if Mr B gave 
investment advice he was carrying out an activity Ideal Financial Planning  had been  
authorised to do.
The part of the agreement which requires registered individuals to be authorised  
seeks to control the way in which the appointed representative conducts  the business  
it conducts not what business it conducts. It is clear  from recent case  law that such 
restrictions do not limit the responsibility  of the principal  (i.e. Quilter). 
So Quilter was responsible, whether Mr B was representing Ideal Financial Planning  
or Gwent  and Forest  Mortgage Centre. 
There doesnt appear to have been  any formal assessment  of Mr Ps attitude to risk 
at the time. Mr P has told us he had no investment experience and had no other 
investments. He was earning £20,000 per annum, had £1,500 in savings and an 
outstanding mortgage.  He had no other  pensions,  only the pensions he switched. So 
he should not have been exposed  to a significant level of investment risk.
In these circumstances, the advice to switch to a SIPP and invest  the majority of the
money in SAE was clearly  unsuitable. It was therefore fair to ask Quilter to 
compensate Mr P for his loss. 
Quilter did not accept this view. 
Mr B could  not have  provided any disclosure documentation to confirm the 
assumption by Mr P that he was a Financial  Adviser, neither could he have provided 
any evidence that he was a Financial Adviser representing Ideal Financial Planning.  
No evidence has been provided to show that he did provide the required disclosure 
documentation.
Mr B was acting for The Ideal  Group  as confirmed  in the application form and all 
subsequent communication from the SIPP Provider. Quilter  has no affiliation or 
association with The Ideal Group  and it has never been an appointed representative. 
The FCA reference used in the SIPP application is that of Ideal Financial Planning.
A cursory check by the SIPP  operator would have confirmed that Mr B was not a
Financial Adviser, that The Ideal Group were not authorised by the FCA and that the
FCA reference used  did not relate to The Ideal Group. the SIPP operators quality 
and fraud  checks were clearly not fit for purpose.
Ref: DRN83114344There is no evidence that any financial advice was provided to Mr P by a registered 
individual of Quilter. Mr P is not a client of Quilter, there is no sales  documentation  to 
support any such recommendation and no commission/payment has been received 
from the SIPP operator by Quilter. 
It does not agree  that because there is no evidence that anybody  else advised 
Mr P that it can be assumed that Quilter  did without any evidence to support this.
In summary, Mr B was not a Financial  Adviser and the Ideal Group  has never been 
an appointed representative of Quilter. The fact that the SIPP  operator  has accepted 
a SIPP  application  confirming otherwise and they did not have  the rudimentary 
checks in place  to verify  this information does not make  Quilter responsible.
my findings
jurisdiction
I have considered all the evidence,  in order to decide whether this service can consider 
Mr Ps complaint. 
I must decide whether we have jurisdiction  to consider this complaint  on the basis  of our 
jurisdiction rules, including  the relevant law they are based on or incorporate and the 
relevant facts of the complaint which I must  decide  on the balance of probability when in 
dispute. 
I cannot decide the issue on the basis of what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. That is the basis on which the merits of complaint will be determined  if we 
have jurisdiction to consider it.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service can deal with certain complaints against Quilter as a 
regulated firm/authorised  person. That may include complaints about the acts or omissions 
of its appointed representatives.  That is why this complaint is against Quilter rather than 
Ideal Financial Planning.   
Quilters position:
Quilter has made a number of points in response  to the complaint and in relation to 
jurisdiction. In short Quilter says it did not, and does not, accept responsibility for the advice 
about which Mr P complains and the ombudsman service does not have jurisdiction to look 
at a complaint  against it.
what is the complaint?  
In order to decide whether we can or cannot consider a complaint it is necessary  first to 
decide what the complaint is.
Ref: DRN83114345It is clear from the original letter of complaint that the complaint is about  the suitability of the 
advice to switch  Mr Ps existing pensions to a SIPP in order to make  the SAE investment. 
The complaint is that that Mr B and/or Ideal Financial Planning,  failed to adequately assess 
the suitability of the switch and, when giving the switch advice, failed to give any 
consideration to the suitability of the SAE investment. 
was advice  given? 
Mr P is neither a sophisticated nor experienced investor. So I think it very unlikely that he 
would have switched  his existing pensions to a SIPP in order  to make an esoteric  
unregulated investment like SAE unless he had been advised  to do so. So I think  Mr Ps 
recollection that he was given  advice  is plausible. It is also supported  by the available  
evidence. 
The available documents refer to Mr B and Ideal  Financial  Planning  as being involved in 
various steps of the transaction. And those documents were completed  shortly after Mr P 
met with Mr B. 
I think it being very unlikely Mr P would have done  what he did without advice, the fact 
documents were  completed shortly after a meeting  with Mr B, and the references to Mr B 
and Ideal Financial  Planning in the documents all strongly suggest this was not a transaction 
Mr P undertook independently or one based  on a mere introduction.  I am satisfied this was 
an advised transaction; that is the only plausible basis on which  this transaction  can have  
taken place. 
We have only been given part of the SIPP  operator alternative investment declaration (the 
section which requires  a signature is missing), but I think it likely Mr P signed  this declaration 
and therefore  declared that he had decided not to seek advice.  However the declaration  is in 
my view clearly  wrong, and I note there was no option for Mr P to say he had been given 
advice  so it seems Mr P had no option  but to sign the form making  that declaration to allow 
the investment  to proceed.  
who gave advice, and in what capacity?
I think Mr P likely dealt  with Mr B at all times  I have not seen any evidence to show  he 
dealt with anyone  else. But I do not think this was a case of Mr B obviously acting 
independently. I think he was acting for an appointed representative of Quilter  either  Ideal 
Financial Planning or Gwent and Forest  Mortgage Centre. And I think  it was very likely  the 
former, given there is no reference in any of the available evidence to Gwent  and Forest  
Mortgage Centre. 
If Mr B was not acting  for Ideal Financial  Planning  I do not think Ideal Financial Planning  
would have written  to the providers of one of Mr Ps existing pensions  to seek information, or 
that Ideal Financial Plannings FSA number  would have been put on the SIPP application 
form. If the reference to Ideal Group in that form was intended to convey that Mr Ps 
advisor was a business other than Ideal  Financial Planning I would not expect the FSA 
number of Ideal  Financial Planning to have been included  in the advisor  section of the SIPP 
application form. The inclusion of that number strongly suggests Ideal Financial Planning 
was the advising  firm Mr B held himself out as acting for. 
Ref: DRN83114346I note Quilter says the SIPP operator has confirmed to Ideal Financial Planning  it has been 
removed from the SIPP  operators records as there is no agreement with it in place and no 
business has ever been  transacted with Ideal Financial Planning. But I do not find this to be 
persuasive evidence.  We have seen several complaints about SAE investments with this 
SIPP operator where, as in this case,  there is evidence to show the involvement of Ideal 
Financial Planning so it is simply not plausible for the operator to say it never transacted any 
business with Ideal Financial Planning. 
can we consider  a complaint about  that advice?
The compulsory jurisdiction rules  are set out in the DISP  section  of the FCA rule book. And 
the compulsory  jurisdiction rules/DISP rules applied to the type of activity  complained  about 
in this case at the time of those events.  
These rules  mean there are a number of jurisdiction tests that must  be met in relation to all 
complaints referred  to us. In summary, these are that the complaint must be made  by an 
eligible complainant, about the act or omission of a regulated business  (an authorised 
person), be about a regulated activity carried on from an establishment  in the United 
Kingdom, and be brought  within the time limits set out in the rules. 
The complaint here is about advice given, and arrangements made, to switch 
Mr Ps existing  pensions  to a SIPP, to make an investment in SAE. 
Advice on a pension switch, and arrangements made for the switch  to take place, are 
regulated activities. Those activities were  carried on from an establishment  in the UK and Mr 
P brought  his complaint to us within the relevant time limits. So some of the tests I have 
summarised above have been met. 
Quilter says Mr P is not its client. I assume  it is therefore saying that Mr P is not an eligible 
complainant. But if the acts I am satisfied took place (the advice and arrangements) were the 
acts of Quilter then Mr P, who is a consumer, will be its customer  and therefore will be an 
eligible complainant. So the key consideration is whether  the complaint is about an act or 
omission of Quilter.  Rule DISP 2.3.1R of the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  Handbook 
says we can;
consider a complaint  under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or omission by 
a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor  any ancillary activities,  including advice, 
carried on by the firm in connection with them.  
And the guidance  at DISP 2.3.3G explains that:
 complaints about  acts or omissions  include those in respect  of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which 
the firmhas accepted  responsibility).  
So for us to consider this complaint against  Quilter, Mr Ps complaint must be about  an act or 
omission of Quilter.  And that can include acts by its appointed representatives for which it 
accepted responsibility. 
As mentioned above, under section 39(3) (s39) of FSMA:
Ref: DRN83114347the principal  of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if he had 
expressly permitted it, for anything done  or omitted  by the representative in carrying on the 
business for which he has accepted responsibility.
Quilter is subject to our jurisdiction. It is, and was at the time of the events complained about, 
authorised by the regulator. According to the FCA register Quilter currently  has permission 
to:
advise on investments 
advise on pension  transfers and opt outs
arrange/bringing about deals  in investments
agree  to carry on regulated activities
So far as I am aware Quilter had the same permission at the time of the events  in this 
complaint. So the activities the complaints relate  to were activities  that came  within  the 
scope of Quilters authorisation from the regulator.
is Quilter responsible for the acts and omissions  the complaint is about?
ARs are not employees of the principal firm. They are independent and might not act only for 
the principal firm. Sometimes those who operate as appointed representatives operate  other  
businesses also.   So sometimes it is clear than a person who happens to be an appointed 
representative does  something on his own account  (or in some other capacity) rather  than 
as business for the principal.
In the case of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for. In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
appointed representative itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431. That 
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account. In that case the person who was an agent for Positive 
Solutions (for some purposes) was held to be engaging in a recognisably  independent 
business of his own   a property investment scheme.    
However, as I explain above,  Mr B was not clearly  engaged in independent business here. I 
think he was acting  for Ideal Financial  Planning  which  was, in turn, an appointed 
representative of Quilter. But that does not mean  Ideal Financial Planning was definitely 
carrying on business Quilter had accepted responsibility for. I have  to consider what 
accepted responsibility means here.  
Ref: DRN83114348The Court of Appeal issued a judgement  in Anderson v Sense Network  last year.  The 
judgment explains that, to determine  whether a principal business has accepted  
responsibility for something  under s39 the contract  between the principal and the appointed 
representative must be considered. The judgment explains that as a principal could accept 
responsibility for "the whole or part" of an appointed  representatives business the 
acceptance of responsibility need  not relate to all activity that could fall within a generic type 
of business. The acceptance of responsibility  may relate to part only of such business. And 
what part responsibility  is accepted for is set out in the documents  which  detail the basis of 
the relationship  between  the principal and the appointed representative. 
In analysing the agreement between the principal and the appointed representative in that 
case, the Court of Appeal focused  on a restriction on the scope of the business  authorised  
by the principal  a requirement to use a Company Agency, which was a product provider 
that the principal  had authorised the appointed representative  to use. The Court of Appeal 
held that, for the purposes of s39:
Advising clients to entrust their money  to the scheme being  operated  by Midas and Mr 
Greig [the appointed  representative] did not involve the use of a Company Agency and 
therefore fell outside the business for which Sense [the principal] had accepted 
responsibility. The restriction  of responsibility in this way enabled Sense to have effective 
controls and supervision  of the authorised business of Midas
So it is clear from the case law that it was open  to a principal such  as Quilter to restrict the 
permission it gives to an appointed representative (and therefore its liability under s39) to 
particular products. 
The Court also confirmed  that Martin v Brittania Life and R v FOS (on the application of 
Tenetconnect) establish no more than that, if an adviser gives advice on a transaction which 
has both regulated and unregulated business  as constituent elements, the adviser and his 
principal are liable  for the unregulated business  if it is inherently  bound up with the regulated  
element. 
The Court of Appeal analysed Martin v Britannia  Life Ltd and R v Financial Ombudsman (on 
the application of Tenetconnect Services Ltd) as having the following basis  (at paras 47 to 
48):
while the terms of an appointed representatives express authority might be limited to 
providing investment  advice to customers in relation to particular products of his principal,  
conduct that is incidental to the provision of that advice (such  as soliciting the customers,  
identifying the financial and personal  circumstances  of the particular customer, assisting in 
any application that the customer  might  to choose to make) will still fall within the actual 
authority of that representative[in Martin]  the advice was inherently bound up with and 
incidental to the advice given by him in relation  to other investments.
The Court also held that there was a clear distinction between restrictions  in the appointed 
representative Agreement as to what business could be done (which  does affect  the scope 
of s.39 liability) and provisions relating  to how the business should be done (e.g., a provision 
requiring the appointed representative  to act in accordance  with COBS), which does  not 
affect the scope  of s39 liability. The judgment, at para 40, says: 
Ref: DRN83114349A further submission made  by Mr Sims was that, even if statutory responsibility may be 
restricted to only part of a business, liability cannot  be excluded  by reference to a failure 
properly to conduct that business. I agree with that, but I do not agree with Mr Sims next 
submission that it is impossible to distinguish  between  what and how, so that the only 
sensible answer is to define  the authorised persons  responsibility by reference  to its 
authority to conduct  business of a prescribed, generic description. In my view,  it will be a 
rare case which presents any difficulty in distinguishing between what  activity may be carried  
on and how a permitted  activity is carried on.
Ovcharenko v InvestUK Ltd, which found  that the contractual  restrictions in the appointed 
representative contract did not operate so as to restrict the principal firms liability  under 
section 39, was analysed by the Court of Appeal  as being a case  that concerned not what 
business the appointed  representative was authorised to carry on, but how he carried  out 
that business. 
what did Quilter accept  responsibility for?
The s39 agreement between Quilter  and Ideal Financial Planning  expressly incorporated the 
Compliance Manual.  The agreement itself said:
4.1 The member is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purpose  only of 
carrying on the Business.
Business was defined  as: 
the business of acting as an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic  on the terms set 
out in this Agreement.
The Compliance Manual was more  helpful on this point. It included:
the regulated activities for which Intrinsic  have approval are as follows:
a)arranging (bringing about) deals in;
b)making arrangements with a view to transactions in;
c)advising on; or
d)agreeing to carry on a regulated activity in (a)  (c)
in relation to designated investments, mortgages,  pure protection and mortgage-
related general  insurance
As appointed representatives of Intrinsic, members can therefore carry out those 
activities detailed above (dependent on any restrictions inherent in your contract), 
these are referred to as the Scope of Permissions  
So the prescribed business Quilter permitted its appointed representative Ideal Financial 
Planning to carry on was arranging  deals,  advising on investments and mortgages and 
certain insurance and agreeing to arrange deals and advise on investments mortgages  and 
insurance. Quilter accepted responsibility  for that business as follows: 
6. INTRINSICS  OBLIGATIONS
Intrinsic agrees with the Member:
6.1 Responsibility
Ref: DRN831143410To accept  regulatory responsibility for such activities of the Member as may be from 
time to time expressly authorised under the terms of this Agreement as required by 
Section 39 of the Act.
So in this case Quilter  did in principle authorise Ideal Financial Planning  to advise on 
investments, arrange deals in investments and agree to do both.   
However Quilter says it only authorised its appointed representative  to give investment 
advice through  advisers who were registered individuals  meaning advisers it had 
authorised to give investment advice and who were  registered as advisers with the regulator.  
The s.39 agreement  includes:
5. MEMBERS OBLIGATIONS
The Member  shall have  the following obligations:
5.1 Conduct of Business
5.1.1 The Member shall comply with the provisions of schedule 2.
Schedule Two of the s.39 Agreement includes:
2 Personnel
2.1 The Member  may appoint Personnel to carry on the Business, provided  that any 
such Personnel:
2.1.1 are approved  by Intrinsic;  and
2.1.2 where Intrinsic considers it necessary, become an Appointed Representative of 
Intrinsic;
2.1.3 where necessary, are approved by the FSA;
2.1.4 have completed successfully, any training course provided by Intrinsic from 
time to time
Quilter says it had not authorised Mr B to advise on investments or pensions. Quilter says 
that accordingly, Ideal  Financial Planning  was not authorised by it to give investment advice 
here. Quilter also says it puts other  restrictions on the business it accepts responsibly for. In 
effect it says it authorises Ideal Financial Planning to give investment advice  but only if 
certain conditions  are met. I have considered what each  of the relevant restrictions  mean in 
this case
advice not given by an approved/registered individual
In this case Ideal  Financial Planning  the appointed  representative - was given authority for 
the regulated  activity  of advising on investments under the s39 agreement. That is the 
starting position. So if Mr B gave  investment  advice  he was carrying out an activity Ideal 
Financial Planning had been authorised to do. It was not just sufficiently closely  connected to 
the authorised  activity  as contemplated in the Sense Network  case  it was one of the 
activities for which actual authority had been  given.
In any event, Schedule  2 of the s39 agreement  between Quilter and Ideal Financial Planning 
seeks to control how the appointed representative conducts the business it conducts not 
what business it conducts. Following the case of Sense Network, a breach of such  a clause  
does not mean the appointed representative is acting beyond the scope of his authority.
Ref: DRN831143411So I do not accept  that Quilter  is not responsible simply on the basis  that Mr B was not 
authorised by it to give investment advice.
advice restricted to approved  products
The Intrinsic  Manual includes the following:
All firms regulated by FSA entered  the depolarised  regime on 1 June 2005. As an 
appointed representative of Intrinsic  you will be restricted to the distribution channels  
and product ranges chosen  by Intrinsic. Intrinsic has chosen to offer the products 
from a limited number of companies in respect  of Designated Investment business,  
commonly refer to as Multi-tie
The first three sections of the s39 agreement deal with:
the commencement date and the identity of the parties.
A short section saying the agreement incorporates various other  documents including 
the compliance manual.
an interpretation section.
Section 4 is the appointment section. It says:
4.1 The Member  is an Appointed Representative of Intrinsic for the purposes of 
carrying on the Business.
4.2 The Member  is not permitted  to represent other counterparties or to carry on any 
other Regulated Activity  or to promote, sell or advise on any financial services  or 
plans other  that the Plans without the express written consent  of Intrinsic,  except  the 
Member may make introductions to Independent Financial Advisers  as permitted by 
Intrinsic from time to time.
Business is defined as:
The business  of acting as an Appointed  Representative  of Intrinsic on the terms set 
out in this Agreement.
Plan is defined as:
Any policy, investment agreement, mortgage or other agreement or service  specified 
from time to time in this Agreement.
Neither the SIPP operator SIPP  nor SAE were specified under the agreement. They  were  
not on Quilters approved  list. 
On the face of it therefore advising on taking out of the SIPP  operator  SIPP  and the 
investment in SAE was not business  Ideal Financial  Planning was appointed to carry on.  
However that advice  did not occur in isolation.  There was also advice to Mr P move away  
from his existing pensions. This is what is known as a pensions switch  (where  the existing 
pension is a personal pension), which  was something Intrinsic  did have the authority to 
advise on. And, subject  to conditions, it was something an appointed representative was 
permitted to advice  on under  the s.39 agreement.  
Ref: DRN831143412This means  that in principle Intrinsic  gave Ideal Financial Planning  (subject to conditions) 
authority to review Mr Ps personal pensions  and give advice upon the merits of switching 
them to a SIPP, with a view to making an alternative  investment. 
As per Martin v Britannia  Life Ltd and R v Financial  Ombudsman (on the application of 
Tenetconnect Services Ltd) Quilter will be responsible for advice inherently  bound up with 
and incidental to the advice given  in relation to other investments. So if Quilter  authorised  
the switch advice it means  it is also responsible  for all of the transaction including the switch 
to the SIPP  operators SIPP and the SAE investment.
exclusion of UCIS advice
The Compliance Manual says advising on UCIS is a specialist activity  and outside the 
appointed representatives scope of permission. And Intrinsic says the investment was a 
UCIS.
I do not however  need to consider whether or not giving advice on UCIS  is sufficiently  
closely linked to the activities for which  authority was given. This is because  the complaint  is 
not exclusively  about any UCIS advice. The complaint is about advice to switch away  from 
the personal pension to a SIPP in order to make  the investment. This advice is not caught by 
this exclusion in the s.39 agreement relating  to UCIS advice.  
special requirements  for pension transfers
Quilters Compliance Manual says that pension switching should be treated in the same 
way as pension transfers. Advice to move from a personal pension to a SIPP  is a pension 
switch according to the regulators rules.  If the advice is to transfer from an occupational 
pension to a SIPP, thats a pension  transfer according to regulators rules. But according  to 
Quilters Compliance Manual both should be treated as pension transfers.
In the Compliance  Manual the adviser is required to pass Quilters pensions  transfer  test
before advising  on (what Quilter calls) pension  transfers.
Quilter says Mr B had not passed  its pension transfer exam and so was not authorised by it 
to give the disputed pension advice.
It is the case that advice  to transfer from an occupational pension to a personal pension 
must be given by or approved  by a qualified pensions transfer specialist under the 
regulators rules.  That requirement does not however cover pension  switching. There  was
no regulatory requirement for such advice to be given or approved  only by a suitably
qualified specialist at the time of this advice.
In this case Mr B gave pension switching advice. 
In my view the requirement  to pass the internal pension transfer exam  at least as regards 
pension switching  was like the other procedural restrictions referred  to above.
in summary
Ref: DRN831143413For all the reasons discussed above  it is my view that this is a complaint against Quilters  
appointed representative acting in its capacity as Quilters appointed representative. The 
complaint relates  to business Quilter accepted responsibility for and Quilter is subject to the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. So I can consider the complaint,  insofar  as 
it relates to a pension  switch. 
my decision  on jurisdiction
For the reasons  discussed above  it is my decision that I can consider  this complaint.
my findings - merits
As I am satisfied Mr Ps complaint is one I can consider, I have  considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to form a provisional  view on what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint I am 
required to take into account:
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules and guidance and standards;  and 
codes of practice;
and where relevant  what I consider  to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In January 2013 the FSA issued an alert on pension transfers with a view to investing into 
unregulated products through  SIPPs.
This complaint involves  advice to invest in an unregulated investment scheme through  a 
SIPP. Although  the alert had not been issued at the time of the advice in this case, the alert 
comments on how the rules at the time should have been complied with. As such  the alert 
sets out guidance  albeit  informal  guidance  that had not been published at the time  on 
how adviser firms  should  have acted in 2011.
The alert included the following:
It has been brought to the FSAs attention that some financial advisers are 
giving advice to custom ers on pension  transfers or pension switche s without 
assessing the advantages and disadva ntage s of investme nts propose d to be 
held within the new pension. In particula r, we have seen financial advisers movi ng 
custom ers retirement savings to self-investe d persona l pensions (SIPPs) that 
invest wholly or primarily in high  risk,  often  highly  illiquid  unregulate d  
investme nts  (some  which  may  be  in Unregulate d   Collective   Investment   
Schemes) . Examples   of   these   unregulate d investme nts are  overseas 
property developm ents, store  pods, forestry and film schemes, among other non-
mainstream propositions.
Ref: DRN831143414The cases we have seen tend to operate under a similar advice model The 
financial adviser  does not give advice on the unregulated investm ent, and says it is 
only providing advice on a SIPP capable of holdi ng the unreg ulated investm ent 
(e.g an overseas property development). When customers express an interest in 
the unregulated investment, the customer is introduced to a regulated financial 
adviser to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding the unregulated investment. 
The financial adviser does not give advice on the unregulated investment, and says 
it is only providing advice on a SIPP capable of holding the unregulated 
investment 
Financial advisers using this advice model are under the mistake n impression that 
this process means they do not have to conside r the unregulated investme nt as part 
of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to conside r the 
suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The  FSAs  view  is  that  the  provision  of  suitable  advice  generally  
requires conside ration of the other investm ents held by the custom er or, when 
advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investme nt in other  products 
(such as SIPPs), conside ration of the suitability of the overall propositi on, that is, 
the wrapper and the expected underlying investme nts in unregulated schemes. It 
should be particul arly clear to financ ial adviser s that, where a custom er seeks 
advice on a pension transfer in impleme nting a wider investment strategy the 
pension transfer must  take account of the overall investm ent strategy the customer 
is contemplating .
For  example,  where  a  financial  adviser  recommends  a  SIPP  know ing  that  
the custom er will transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to 
invest in an overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the 
overseas property investme nt must form part of the advice about whether the 
customer should transfer into the SIPP. If, takin g into account the individual 
circumstances of the custom er, the original pension produc t, including its 
unde rlying holdi ngs, is more suitable for the custom er, then the SIPP is not 
suitable .
This is because if you give regulate d advice and the recommendation will 
enable investm ent in unreg ulated items you cannot separate out the unregulated 
elements from the regulated elements.
There are clear requirements unde r the FSA Principles and Conduc t of Business 
rules and also in established case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to 
first take time to familiarise themse lves with the wider investment and financial 
circumst ances. Unless the adviser  has done  so, they will not be in a positi on to 
make recommendations on new produc ts.
The above  guidance is clear. The advice to switch to a SIPP  cannot  reasonably  be 
considered by the adviser in isolation. The suitability of the proposed  investment should  also 
be considered. 
Ref: DRN831143415was the advice  suitable for Mr P?
There does not appear  to have been any formal assessment made of Mr Ps attitude to risk 
at the time of the switch  to the SIPP and the investment. Mr P has told us he has very little 
investment experience. Weve been  provided  a copy of a brief, undated,  fact-find document.  
Its not clear when that was completed, but it records Mr P had no savings or investments, 
beyond his pension,  which  seems consistent  with what he has told us. Mr P also had very 
modest pension savings  the personal  pension he switched had a value of around £10,000. 
So he should not have been exposed to a significant  level of investment risk. 
I think, in these circumstances, the advice to switch  to a SIPP and invest the majority of the 
money in SAE was clearly  unsuitable. Given the sum involved, the advice  to switch to the 
SIPP, in itself, was clearly unsuitable, as the SIPP had a (relative  to the amount) high level 
of fixed charges associated with it. And the investment of most of the SIPP  in a scheme that 
involved Jatropha bean plants in Cambodia  entailed  significant risk, which  Mr P would have 
neither the capacity nor tolerance  for.
So my view is that it is fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint, as the advice for which 
Quilter is responsible was clearly  unsuitable  for Mr P. 
fair compensation
I note Quilter says the SIPP operator is at fault for failing to make what it describes  as 
rudimentary checks on the application.  I accept the SIPP operator had its own,  distinct, 
obligations. But, for the reasons I have  set out, I am satisfied Ideal Financial Planning gave 
advice. And, were it not for that unsuitable  advice  I am satisfied Mr P would not have arrived  
at the SIPP  operators door. So I think it is fair to ask Quilter to pay compensation that puts 
Mr P in the position  he would have been, but for the unsuitable advice given by Ideal 
Financial Planning. 
My aim to put Mr P as closely as possible to the position he would probably now be in if he 
had been given suitable advice. Ive not seen  any evidence that Mr P was actively  seeking to 
make any changes to his pension  I think he was prompted to do so by Mr B. So I think it 
more likely than not that Mr P would have kept his existing pensions,  but for the unsuitable  
advice. 
So, to compensate Mr P, Quilter should compare the current  notional transfer value of 
Mr Ps pensions,  had they not been moved,  to the current notional  transfer  value of the 
SIPP, and pay the difference. 
When carrying out the comparison any additional sum paid into the investment should  be 
added from the point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  income or other 
distribution out of the investment should  be deducted at the point it was actually paid so it 
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
The SAE investment should be assumed to have no value, when carrying out the 
calculation, as it currently has no realisable  value. I appreciate its possible this investment  
might pay a return in future. So, in return for the compensation,  Quilter  may ask Mr P to 
provide an undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive  from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension. Quilter will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the 
undertaking.
Ref: DRN831143416If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation, then the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return  Index  should  be used instead. That is a reasonable proxy for 
the type of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been chosen taking 
account of Mr Ps likely  attitude to risk.
Quilter should pay the compensation into Mr Ps SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Quilter  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Ps SIPP, it should pay the amount  direct 
to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ps actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. For example, if Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
at the selected  retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. 
However, if Mr P would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
future SIPP  fees
Although the Sustainable AgroEnergy investment  may have no realisable  value, it is possible  
that Mr P may still have to pay fees for holding it in his SIPP.  And it is unlikely he will be able 
to remove the investment  from his SIPP. 
Had the switch  not gone  ahead, Mr P would not have  made  the investment. So if Mr P does 
have to pay ongoing fees to the SIPP Quilter should  pay him an amount equal to the fees 
that would  be payable over the next five years.  I think five years should  be sufficient time for 
things to work themselves out with the investment, so Mr P can remove  it from his SIPP or 
sell it. This money should be paid into Mr Ps pension, if possible.  
upset
Mr P will have been caused significant  upset  by the events this complaint relates  to, and the 
loss of, in effect,  all of his pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate  
for that upset.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold Mr Ps complaint. Quilter Financial Services  Ltd, previously 
called Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd, should  calculate and pay compensation as set out 
above. 
Ref: DRN831143417Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2020.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8311434