K821x#15complaint
Mr O had a car insurance policy with GoSkippy  Insurance. This is a branded policy  arranged  
and administered by Eldon Insurance  Services Ltd (Eldon). Mr O has complained that after 
he decided not to renew the policy and cancelled his direct debit payment, Eldon continued 
to take money  from his bank account.  Hes also complained that they went  on to make  
further, repeated  demands for money  that he didnt owe, threatening court action  through a 
debt collection agency.
background
Mr O first took out a car insurance  policy with Eldon in October 2016 and he renewed  that 
policy in October 2017. That years  cover began on 30 October 2017 and ended  on 29 
October 2018. On 6 October 2018,  Eldon contacted  Mr O, encouraging him to renew  his 
policy. And they wrote to him again, on 27 October, informing him that his policy had been 
renewed for the coming  year.
Mr O didnt respond, as he didnt  intend to renew his policy with Eldon. Instead,  he instructed 
his bank to cancel his direct  debit and took out a new policy with another  insurance broker. 
This began on 30 October 2018.  At the same time, the renewals department  at Eldon 
renewed Mr Os existing  policy without  him realising  it.
Mr O has told us that on 5 January he noticed  from his bank statement that Eldon had taken 
payments from his account  by direct debit even  though he hadnt  wanted to renew his policy 
with them.  Eldon had taken payments of £53.26  in December 2018, plus £10 and £53.26  in 
January 2019  - £116.52 in total. Mr O contacted  Eldon  on 5 January to tell them that he 
hadnt renewed his insurance with them. He also told them hed taken out a new policy with 
another company from 30 October  2018. He asked  Eldon to refund what theyd taken from 
his bank account. Mr O told us he immediately cancelled his direct  debit  again.
On 7 January  2019, Eldon  wrote to Mr O and explained that his policy had been auto-
renewed on 30 October 2018. They  asked  him to provide proof of his new insurance policy,  
so they could back-date the cancellation and issue the refund hed requested. Mr O sent a 
copy of his new insurance certificate  by email on 12 January.
Despite having  been told by Mr O on 5 January that he hadnt wanted  to renew his policy 
with them,  Eldon continued to pursue what it considered to be the outstanding balance  of the 
full annual premium  as a debt and sent Mr O an invoice for £335.41.  Eldon eventually  
cancelled the policy on 23 February  2019  but still wrote to Mr O demanding payment of the 
full remaining premium  on 16 February.  And they sent out a final notice and threatened legal 
action on 20 March 2019, again despite knowing Mr O hadnt intended to renew the policy  
and that theyd cancelled it anyway on 23 February.  On 25 March,  they told Mr O his insurer  
was in the process of deleting  your records from the Motor  Insurers  Database. But, despite 
this, on 5 April, Mr O was sent a demand for payment by Eldons debt collector.
On 15 April, Eldon told Mr O they werent able to read the new insurance certificate hed 
provided on 12 January  and asked for a better  copy. On 17 April, Mr O sent a further copy  
and Eldon forwarded this to their underwriters. On 23 April,  lawyers acting on behalf  of the 
debt collector, wrote  to Mr O, demanding payment of the debt. Mr O has told us that the 
actions of Eldon and their debt collection agency  caused him a great  deal of distress and 
anxiety, including  sleepless  nights.
Ref: DRN89891312Eldon have pointed out that their Terms of Business document clearly states that renewal 
will happen  automatically  unless the customer gets in touch to cancel the policy. They have 
told us that Mr O did not do this (and this is not disputed), despite also getting  a renewal 
reminder saying the policy  would automatically renew. So, Eldon went  through  the standard 
processes of taking  direct  debit payments from Mr Os bank. 
Theyve explained this could  happen  because Mr Os policy  renewal was financed  by a loan 
provided by a lender, repayable in monthly  instalments under a new credit agreement. And it 
seems this came into force with a new direct  debit arrangement, which meant  it didnt make  
any difference that Mr O had cancelled the direct  debit  arrangement  he had for the previous  
years credit  agreement. It meant the lender  was able to collect two instalments before Mr O 
cancelled the new direct debit arrangement. And, Eldon have gone on to explain that this 
meant only part of the full amount Mr O had borrowed to pay the premium  had been 
collected. And, in the absence of what they felt was convincing evidence  of Mr O having 
arranged alternative  cover elsewhere, they then pursued the outstanding premium as a debt 
along the usual lines.
How things stand now
Since we got involved, Eldon have accepted that Mr O never intended to renew his policy  
with them  in October 2018.  And they and the insurer involved have treated it as if it never 
renewed. So, theyve  confirmed that Mr O doesnt owe them  anything. 
Weve been able to confirm that Eldon eventually accepted that they had taken money in 
December 2018  and January 2019,  but also said that theyd returned the three  direct  debit 
payments. Weve only been able to confirm, in January 2020,  that the total figure  of £116.52 
was refunded to Mr O on 16 July 2019.  Even  so, Mr O has told us he hadnt realised that the 
money had been  refunded as Eldon hadnt told him. When  we asked him about this, he went  
through his bank statements and found £116.52  had been credited to his account on 19 July 
by another business, which had provided  the loan for Mr O to pay his insurance  premium. 
The original  payments removed from Mr Os account, on the other hand, had been  paid out 
to GoSkippy. As Mr O had other,  independent  dealings with the lender, he hadnt realised 
that this was the refund from Eldon until we were able to help him match  it up.
Eldon have also told us theyve  done  everything they can to ensure this matter wont  affect  
Mr Os access  to credit in the future. But unless the lender can confirm otherwise, hell be left 
with a default registered to his credit file. And Eldon have made it clear that they cant do 
anything about  this. So, Ill deal with this issue further below.
Our investigator thought that Eldon should pay Mr O £100 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  which its poor handling of the case had caused Mr O. Eldon didnt agree 
with his assessment,  so the case has come to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Automatic renewal
When Eldon  wrote to Mr O on 28 October  2016, welcoming him to their business for the first 
time, the accompanying Terms  of Business document stated :
Ref: DRN89891313Under certain circumstances and to make  the process of renewal  easier we can 
automatically renew a policy and take payment by the same payment method as the 
previous year. We will always write, via email, to advise you before we automatically renew 
any policy and give you the opportunity  to contact us to cancel the renewal.
Besides the Terms of Business document, Ive also seen Eldons renewal reminder email 
sent to Mr O on 6 October 2018.  This stated clearly that if he wanted the policy to continue 
automatically, he didnt  need to do anything. It also stated: Finally, it is important to receive 
your instructions before your renewal  date if you do not wish to renew your policy  on these 
terms.... And I think it was clear from this and the above Terms of Business that Mr Os 
policy would automatically  be renewed  if he didnt let Eldon know  that he didnt want this to 
happen.
Mr O has told us that, although he cancelled his direct debit, he didnt  contact Eldon to tell 
them he wasnt renewing the policy. Although  Eldons policy  documentation  isnt explicit  
about exactly what a person  should do if he doesnt  want to renew his cover, I think  Mr O 
should have realised from the correspondence hed received that he had to take some  sort 
of action. Especially,  as hed already been through the same process with Eldon the year 
before when he allowed his 2016/17  policy to automatically renew in October 2017. On that 
occasion, after Eldon  had contacted him several  times  and he had done nothing, Eldon had 
gone ahead  and renewed the policy automatically.  Mr O had also emailed Eldon in the past 
to update his address, so I can see he knew how to contact  them.
For all these reasons, I dont think Eldon did anything wrong in automatically renewing Mr 
Os policy.
Date the renewal was processed
Although the letter  sent by Eldon confirming renewal of Mr Os policy  cover  was dated three 
days before  the actual  renewal date, Eldon have told us that this is standard  practice. 
Theyve told us that the renewal is processed a few days  in advance so that the Motor 
Insurance Database  can be kept up to date and correctly record a vehicle  as being insured. 
They have also said that if a customer subsequently lets them  know  that the policy is not 
required then it will end from the date of renewal.
I think this is reasonable,  so I dont think Eldon have done anything wrong in having  informed  
Mr O that the policy would renew prior to it actually happening.
Reinstating the direct debit
Eldon has told us that when Mr Os direct debit payment failed (having been cancelled  by Mr 
O) they had no way of knowing  that Mr O had cancelled the payment. They said that they 
had set up a new direct debit for the new finance  agreement that came into place  when the 
policy auto-renewed. And, as a result, Eldon  took three payments from Mr Os account 
before he realised and cancelled  the mandate again.
Asking for proof of alternative cover
Eldon has told us so they needed  to see proof  of Mr Os alternative cover - a copy  of the 
insurance certificate with his new insurer - so they could  back-date  the cancellation of his 
policy. They  said that this level of proof  is a requirement of the insurer. Because  of this, 
Ref: DRN89891314Eldon emailed Mr O asking him for evidence  of his new insurance  certificate  on 7 January. 
Mr O sent a copy of his new insurance  certificate  on 12 January.
On 1 October 2019, Eldon told us that theyd contacted Mr O on 14 January to tell him they 
couldn't read the document hed sent them. Ive been through all the correspondence  
provided both by Eldon and Mr O and cant find this email or any reference  to it anywhere. 
Given that so many  other pieces of correspondence are on file, I dont think  Eldon contacted 
Mr O on 14 January, as theyve suggested.  I think they first contacted  him about this by 
email on 12 April, as Ive explained  below.
On 12 April, Mr O emailed  Eldon,  asking  about the cancellation of his policy. He appears to 
have attached a copy of his insurance  certificate a second time. Eldon also responded the 
same day, asking for another  copy of his new insurance certificate.  Mr O sent this through  
(seemingly a third time). But, on 15 April 2019,  Eldon replied, stating that they couldn't 
accept this either and asking again for a clear copy.  For the fourth time, on 17 April,  Mr O 
sent a copy of his insurance certificate  and Eldon  forwarded  this to the insurer.
I think it was reasonable  for Eldon to ask for evidence of the other  insurance cover  Mr O had 
taken out from 30 October, given that he was seeking reimbursement of his payments from 
December and January and wanted his policy cancelled retrospectively.  But hed told Eldon 
of his intentions  on 5 January and I think they ought  to have placed more weight on this. In 
fact, they ignored  it completely. And  as Ive said - I dont think they responded to Mr Os 
email of 12 January  at all. This meant  they did nothing  about it until April.  And I think January 
to April is an unreasonably long period of time for Eldon to sit on an issue like this, 
particularly when they were the ones requesting the evidence in the first place. 
Even if Eldon were having  difficulty reading the early  copies of the insurance document that 
Mr O sent, I think  that if they had they ought to have raised it much earlier. Eldon doesnt 
dispute that they made no contact between  January  and April or that this was a long time.
I also think Eldon could have found the same  information by contacting  the Motor  Insurers 
Bureau themselves.  I think they could have satisfied  themselves as early as January 2019,  
without requesting it repeatedly from Mr O over such a protracted period.
In conclusion, I think Eldon should  have established  much earlier  that Mr O had arranged  
alternative cover and shouldnt have kept asking him to send copies of his new insurance 
certificate when they had other means  to establish  that hed insured his car elsewhere. 
These actions clearly caused Mr O a great  deal of unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
Chasing the Debt
As Ive already  explained, Mr O told Eldon on 5 January that he hadnt wanted to renew  his 
policy. Despite this, Ive seen that Eldon sent,  or directed others to send, to Mr O a number 
of letters  asking him to pay the full outstanding annual  premium of £335.41, as if it was still 
due. Eldon sent demands for payment on 5 March, 13 March and 20 March 2019. They then 
appointed a debt collector, who wrote to Mr O on 4 April. And eventually a solicitor to recover  
the money. The solicitor  sent Mr O a letter on 23 April threatening legal proceedings.
I dont think any of these  letters  should have been sent. It wasnt  fair or reasonable for Eldon 
to pursue the debt in the way they did throughout March and April 2019 because  by this 
time, they had known  for over two months  that Mr O hadnt wanted to renew his policy  and 
they should have known  hed insured  his car elsewhere. I appreciate  they didnt have proof  
Ref: DRN89891315of this, but I think this was their fault, not Mr Os. Also, Eldon had written to Mr O on 16 
February threatening to end his insurance  from 23 Feb if he didnt make payment  even 
though hed been telling them for weeks that he wasnt interested.  They wrote again on 25 
February confirming cancellation  of the policy.
Mr O has said he felt the letters chasing him for money and threatening him with a debt 
collector and legal proceedings were financially abusive. And, having read them,  I dont think 
its surprising that Mr O was caused distress  and anxiety by them.
Eldon has said these letters were sent out before they received a clear copy  of Mr Os new 
insurance certificate. And that without  this evidence, Mr O was still liable for the outstanding 
debt. But they cancelled Mr Os cover on 23 February, so I cant understand why they were  
still chasing Mr O for the full premium in April. And  as Ive already said  they should have 
realised he didnt want to renew his policy  and established he had other cover in place. 
Eldon has also told us that the letters were automatically generated by their system following 
non-payment of the outstanding debt and that there was nothing they could do about it. Im 
not sure whether these two positions  are compatible but, in any case, I still dont  agree  that 
Eldons actions were  acceptable in the circumstances.
I think Eldons behaviour  was very unreasonable and unjustified.  And again,  as Ive said 
above, I think that if they didnt feel theyd seen sufficient evidence  of Mr Os replacement 
insurance they could  have  done more to obtain this themselves  or let Mr O know  much 
sooner. And I accept  that this caused Mr O significant distress and inconvenience. 
Mr Os credit file
Eldon told us theyve  done everything  they can to ensure this matter  wont  affect Mr Os 
access to credit in the future. But, as things stand, Im concerned  that Mr O will still be left 
with a default on his finance agreement with the lender involved. And I dont think  thats fair 
to Mr O.
Eldon shouldve made sure no more direct debits  payments were taken after 5 January, as 
they knew by then that Mr O didnt  want  to renew.  So, the situation is down to Eldons 
mistake.
But Eldon have made it clear that they cant remove the default marker. And we cant direct 
the lender to remove the default  marker either. So, weve asked Eldon to ask the lender to 
remove it. The lender  has said they do have credit  markers against customers whose 
finance has been cancelled. So, Eldon has asked them for confirmation that all reference  to 
this matter is no longer  showing  on Mr Os credit files. Weve  given  them several weeks  to 
put the situation right, but theyve been unable to confirm this has been done.  And this whole 
situation has clearly  caused  Mr O a great deal of additional worry and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN89891316deciding how to put things right
As Ive said,  I think that the way Eldon chased  the debt, which they acknowledged was not 
due, in the way they did was unnecessary, unreasonable and unfair. This caused Mr O 
significant distress and inconvenience over many weeks. And the default  marker on Mr Os 
credit file may cause  him ongoing difficulties  and this is also unfair. So, for these reasons, I 
think that Eldon should pay Mr O a total of £500  in compensation to reflect this.
the response to my provisional  decision
Although Mr O didnt reply, Eldon indicated that they accepted my provisional decision. So 
the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
In view of the response to my provisional  decision,  Ive no reason to depart from the findings 
Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that Eldon Insurance  
Services Ltd pay Mr O a further £500 in compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8989131