K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. In December 2004 the policy was amended to cover  Mr Ws further borrowing. Mr W 
says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
HSBC had to make  it clear the PPI was optional and get Mr Ws consent before adding  it 
to his account. Mr W says he was pressured into taking  the PPI as it was implied that 
without it there  would be no finance. As the sale was sold so long ago HSBC  havent 
been able to provide much paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think thats surprising. 
But it does mean I have limited information  about the sale, so I have to decide what  I 
think is likely  to have happened, given the information I do have and the broader  
circumstances.
HSBC has given  us a copy of the financial planning document that was completed when 
Mr W met with an advisor in 2003  to discuss the mortgage and his financial needs. From 
the financial planning document and the letter HSBCs advisor sent to Mr W following the 
financial planning review I can see that the advisor recommended, among other things, 
that Mr W take out PPI. The information  provided shows that Mr W declined  some of the 
recommendations but indicated he wanted to have the PPI.  
Ive seen nothing  in the paperwork to suggest  the policy was compulsory or that it would 
help with his mortgage application   and on Mr Ws mortgage offer there  is a section  
related to insurances which  says you are not required to take out any insurance  through  
HSBC. Mr W has signed this document  so I think  its likely he wouldve known the PPI 
was optional. So on balance  I think  its likely that HSBC made it clear the policy  was 
optional and that Mr W chose to take the policy.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr W 
was self-employed  at the time the policy was sold. Ive looked carefully at the policy  
document that applies to Mr Ws policy, and dont think it wouldve been difficult  for him 
to claim for unemployment.  Mr W also seems to have  had a need for the cover.  Mr  W 
says he doesnt  have any other means of making his repayments.  But the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable  to work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment. So I think he wouldve found  the policy useful. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
Ref: DRN81000252him off taking out the cover.  It follows that I dont think Mr W has lost out as a result of 
anything HSBC has done wrong.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8100025