K822xcomplaint
Ms E complained about the service received from St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management 
Plc (SJP).  She says that as a result of the service received her retirement has been delayed  
and her pension  fund has lost value. SJP has not provided the service she paid for.
The complaint covers a number of years and has evolved with new issues which have  been  
added to the complaint about the service received.
background 
Ms E had been  a client of an SJP partner  firm I shall refer to as firm A for a number of years. 
She had pension benefits with SJP and intended  to access  those  benefits  in August 2018. 
She discovered in early  2017 the partner had sold part of his practice to another partner firm 
within SJP I shall refer to the second partner firm as firm B. 
What happened  between January 2017  and June  2018?
Ms E was transferred to firm B. They provided  a financial plan using a software package.  
Ms E acknowledges this was presented  to her. I have been provided  with a copy of the 
financial plan. 
Firm A agreed  in about September 2017 to continue to advise Ms E about her pensions and 
investments. There was a financial review  meeting  on 20 December 2017. No further 
financial reviews took place until 11 July 2018.
The adviser at firm A sent an email to the complaint handler at SJP on 4 October 2018. He 
explained he had been working with the adviser at firm B. It was agreed that phased  
drawdown was suitable.  This was delayed because the report had to be prepared  by 
paraplanners and agreed by SJP. It was hoped income could start in October  2018.
Ms E complained to SJP in May 2018 about  the lack of advice she received in the approach 
to her intended retirement date. SJP responded to the complaint  and acknowledged  there  
were delays in setting up Ms Es pension. They offered to pay Ms E a sum equivalent to 
three months income  and a payment of £500 for trouble and upset. This was rounded  up to 
£3,500. SJP subsequently increased  their offer to £4,500.
Ms E did not accept  the offer from SJP. She asked for fees of £13,681  to be refunded 
together with £1,500 to cover the delays and her time and distress. She also provided a 
timeline of what she thought the adviser ought  to have been doing in preparation  for her 
retirement in August  2018.
Firm B provided  a report to Ms E in February 2019,  following  discussions  on 
28 August 2018.  The advice was to withdraw  a sum of £20,000.  This provided a tax-free 
amount of £5,000 with the remaining £15,000 providing taxable  income  of £11,850.  The 
report explained how tax would be deducted  under the PAYE system.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She accepted  SJP had not provided  the 
service Ms E paid for, but thought  the offer made to resolve the complaint was fair.
Ms E did not agree. She provided a detailed response. In summary, her main  points were:
Ref: DRN89329792All communication  ceased with firm B in April 2017.
There was a meeting  with firm A on 20 December 2017  with the next meeting on 
11 July 2018.  
She now wanted compensation for:
ofees totalling about £28,500 refunded for 2017 and 2018;
oplus £1,500  already  offered by SJP;
oand her investment  loss as a result  of not taking  benefits in August 2018  
since which time her investments had dropped in value.
Her complaint  is split into three  periods:
oJanuary to September 2017
oSeptember 2017 to July 2019
oJuly 2019  to date
Savings have been spent because she did not have access to her pension.
Firm B strongly  encouraged the use of the software.  However, she has spreadsheets 
she uses which meet her needs.  The software package was not suitable  for her.
The process for taking  her pension should  have  been started earlier than July 2018 
as she wanted  income  from August 2018.
She called  firm A on 12 October 2018  to put the withdrawal on hold as she was 
concerned about falling  investment markets.  It was only in October 2018 she was 
told the minimum payment she could  take was £50,000. This later turned out to be 
£20,000.
A suitability report dated October  2018 had been provided to her. She had not seen 
this before. She did receive a suitability report in February 2019. That suitability 
report contained many  errors  for which SJP offered £250 as compensation.
It was not until 4 February  2019 that she emailed SJP to start her pension  benefits.
SJP had not done what she asked  and made  two separate  payments. She had to 
reclaim tax from HMRC  as a result.
A separate  complaint has been made about  issues that have arisen  since this complaint was 
referred to our Service.
I asked SJP for more  information to be able to consider the complaint. This included  the 
terms and conditions of the service  they agreed  to provide. I also wanted to know  the 
amount of the fees paid by Ms E as well as what had happened  to the pension benefits.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional decision. I explained that I had reviewed  the terms of the agreement  
between firm A and Ms E. This is the key facts about our services and costs . The copy  I 
had seen was from May 2018, but I thought it was likely  to reflect  the terms during the period 
Ms E was a client of firm A. I was not aware of a separate  agreement  with Firm B and 
assumed the same  terms applied to the costs and services they provided. I thought the 
relevant part of the agreement was:
We will also provide  you with ongoing advice to review your investment and ongoing 
contribution levels.  if applicable, to ensure it remains appropriate as set out in the 
''Welcome to St. James's Place" brochure provided by our Partner. The cost of this 
each year is 0.5% of your total investment and so this annual cost will increase if 
your investment grows
The issues  at the heart  of this complaint started  in January 2017. It was at that point  Ms E 
was informed a decision had been made that firm A would no longer  be dealing  with her as a 
Ref: DRN89329793client. I had seen email correspondence about this between Ms E and firm A. Subsequently 
firm B provided a financial plan using  a software  package. Ms E was not impressed with the 
version of the software. It appeared no further  action was taken until December 2017.
Although Ms E did not want  to be a client of firm B, I could see that they provided some  
information in their financial plan. This was about  using  the software package. As far as I 
could tell Ms Es dealings  with firm B then finished in April 2017. In my view, providing  details  
of the software  and any discussion about  this did meet the standard required of reviewing  
the investment.  I accepted that Ms E did not want to use the software.  However, I thought a 
service was provided until April 2017.
Firm A agreed  in October 2017 to provide a service to Ms E. A meeting was then arranged  
for 20 December 2017. Ms E has provided  copies of an exchange of emails  with the adviser. 
It was clearly understood that Ms E wanted  to start drawing her pension  in August 2018. As 
she was a non-taxpayer it was agreed  she would only draw enough income  to use her 
personal tax allowance. The adviser  said this would be a simple process.
A review meeting was held on 20 December 2017. Ms E provided an extract of an email  
from the adviser after this meeting. He indicated  he understood  Ms E wished to withdraw 
some money from her pension  in August 2018  and to use her personal allowance. He 
mentioned SJP would  only need  a few weeks notice to withdraw money from investments, 
but a bit longer for pensions. He said he would arrange a meeting for June 2018.  However, 
the meeting was not arranged until 11 July 2018.
The adviser also discussed the funds  Ms E was invested in and suggested  a switch to a 
different fund.
I said that I would not expect an adviser to be in constant communication with a client. I also 
thought under the terms of the agreement they should be available  when the client requests 
some action. I said in my view, the meeting in December 2017  was in line with the terms of 
the agreement. A plan was put in place for dealing with Ms Es pension benefits. There  was 
also some  discussion about the funds selected.
Ms E intended to start taking benefits  from her pension plan in August  2018. She said the 
advice process should  have  started  earlier than June 2018 and certainly not been  left until 
July 2018. I agreed  with Ms E on this point.
I said the time required to provide advice and plan to draw pension  benefits varies. However, 
I thought it was common to allow six months and usually a minimum of three  months to 
make these arrangements. This was in line with the regulators expectations for consumers 
accessing pension  benefits. The correspondence from the adviser  at firm A to Ms E in 
December 2017  and then as part of the complaint indicates more  time was required.  In my 
view, leaving the meeting  until July 2018  was too late.
A copy of a report had been provided  from October 2018. It referred to a meeting with Ms E 
in August 2018. I understood  the report was not sent as it had been prepared  by 
paraplanners and the adviser  was not happy  with it. The adviser  explained the delays as it 
took some  time for the paraplanners to prepare  the report and it then had to be approved  
within SJP. Ms E then gave instructions to put the matter on hold as she was concerned  
about the fall in the value of investments.
Ref: DRN89329794The report  was sent to Ms E in February  2019 and she gave instructions for the payment to 
be made. She had complained about  the content  of that report.
I was satisfied that the service provided  by SJP from January 2018 until February 2019 did 
not meet the terms of the agreement.  The advice  process started too late and was not 
implemented until February  2019. Ms E also complained it was not implemented  correctly 
causing her to have  to apply to HMRC for a refund of tax deducted  from her income.
Some of the issues  noted above  had arisen  since  Ms E referred  this complaint to this 
Service. In particular, Ms E was unhappy with the suitability report sent in February  2019.  
Those issues are being dealt with separately. However, I thought it was an appropriate point  
at which  to separate the issues. I understood Ms E was still having  issues with the advice 
and service provided. 
How should  the compensation be calculated?
I explained that in my view, SJP had not provided  the service it charged  Ms E for from 
January 2018  to January  2019 inclusive. I thought SJP should refund the fees Ms E paid 
between January 2018 and January 2019 inclusive.
Ms E also delayed taking  her pension benefits from August 2018 to February 2019. This was 
initially the fault of SJP in not providing Ms E with the advice she had requested. I accepted 
Ms E then gave instructions to put her withdrawal  on hold. She explained this was as a result 
of a fall in the value of her pension  fund. If she had withdrawn her pension benefits at that 
time, she would  have had to sell more units. I thought it was reasonable to delay taking 
benefits for that reason.
I explained that I thought  the loss, if any, by delaying taking pension benefits in August 2018 
was caused by SJPs inaction.  SJP should  therefore  establish how many  units  were  sold in 
February 2019 and compare  this to the number of units that would have been sold in 
August 2018.  SJP should then compensate Ms E for the value of those  units. This should  
preferably be by adding the units to Ms Es pension plan. If not, this should be paid to Ms E 
as a cash sum. Ms E is a non-taxpayer, so no adjustment needed to be made  for the effect 
of income tax.
Simple interest, at a rate of 8% gross a year, should  also be added to the £20,000 Ms E 
wished to withdraw in August 2018  until the date it was paid in February 2019.
Ms E had also been caused a significant  amount of distress and inconvenience  because of 
the delay to her pension  benefits. SJP has already offered a sum equal to three months of 
income, assuming  the payment was a monthly payment throughout the year,  and £1,500 for 
trouble and upset.  In my view, a different approach is required to fairly compensate Ms E. I 
have set out how I thought financial compensation should be calculated. But I also intended 
to award £500  for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms E. 
Ms E has another complaint with this Service about  the ongoing issues  with her pension.  
That is currently being investigated. The compensation I have set out above deals with some 
of the period under the new complaint. I thought that was inevitable  given the issues  arise 
from the same pension funds.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ref: DRN89329795SJP accepted the provisional decision but wanted to make  it clear the decision covered the 
period up to February 2019.
Ms E did not accept  the provisional decision.  She provided a number of documents making 
many points about what had happened and the evidence provided by SJP. I have 
summarised her points but confirm I have read all of the evidence presented.
SJP had misrepresented her financial position.  She was not included  in the discussion in 
August 2018 and information about her finances  was wrong.  The suitability report  sent to her 
in February 2019  was full of errors. The misinformation has caused delays to Ms E starting 
her pension. SJP did not display  any sense  of urgency to advise her and start the payments  
from her pension funds.
Ms E would  like us to investigate how the suitability report came to be issued as it contained 
many errors and omissions. It is an example to the incompetence and complacency 
exhibited in their dealings with Ms E.
Ms E did not have  income  of £700  a year and her partner was unhappy  he was referred to in 
the suitability report.
Ms E rejected the offer of £250 from SJP for the poor quality of the suitability report.
 
Ms E explained the sequence  of events in 2017. She asked for help and advice about 
drawing an income from her pension funds.  Her available  cash would only last for about six 
months. There were virtual meetings in February and March during which the adviser  
introduced Ms E to the software package. Ms E drew my attention to emails in February 
2017 in which she asked for financial  advice  as her available cash would only last for six 
months. She did not receive the financial advice she had requested. In December 2017  the 
discussion about generating  an income  was delayed until June 2018.
Ms E also provided a summary  of events from January 2018 to February 2019. This focused  
on the lack of advice and the mistakes made by SJP. Although she required income this 
wasnt arranged from her pension until February 2019.
Ms E summarised the position  and set out how she would  like the complaint to be resolved.
Adviser fees to be refunded  for 2017, 2018,  2019.
Adviser fees for 2019 and 2020 are refunded  by the other complaints.
Ongoing adviser  fees must cease immediately and be refunded.
There should also be compensation added  for the growth that the fees would otherwise 
have achieved if the fees had remained invested in Ms Es pension  fund.
SJP literature states the cost of a Suitability Report  is £1,500.  As SJP created a report  in 
February 2019 and a letter in lieu of Suitability Report in September 2018, assumed charges 
for this are 2 x £1,500  = £3,000 which must be refunded.
Adequate compensation for time,  distress, trouble, upset, anxiety of £1,500
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89329796Events being considered as part of this complaint
The service  provided  by SJP from January 2017 to February 2019  is being considered  as 
part of this complaint.  Although this includes servicing issues arising  after SJP gave their 
final response to the complaint, I am satisfied they have  had time to respond to those issues  
Any issues  about  the suitability report,  the suitability of the advice and anything  Ms E has 
raised with SJP since February  2019 will be dealt with in a separate  complaint.
Service provided during  2017
In an email dated 7 February 2017, Ms E set out her objectives and how she wanted  to plan 
her income for the coming years. She wanted to discuss how much income she could take 
from investments. She wanted to plan her income  for the next 18 months until she was able 
to draw an income from her pension and the following  years  until her state  pension  would be 
paid.
Ms E told us her email was followed by virtual  meetings during which  the adviser discussed 
using the software.  Ms E provided copies of emails  in March and April 2017 in which  she 
discussed using  the software  with the adviser.  It then appears  very little was done  until Ms E 
contacted her original  adviser in September 2017  asking  him to take her back  as a client.
In her response to my provisional  decision,  Ms E said that her request for income in her 
email of 7 February  2017 has not been  answered. I reviewed the correspondence  and agree 
Ms E made a request  for income, but the first time she has said this was not answered  was 
in response to my provisional decision.  The correspondence in 2017 focused on access to 
the software and her unhappiness with the new adviser. 
When Ms E asked to be taken back as a client by her original  adviser in September 2017, 
there was no mention  of immediate income  being required. In December  2017  the focus was 
on providing income from her pension  fund in 2018.  
In my view, if generating income in the short term was an important issue  that Ms E wanted 
SJP to give her advice, she would have raised  it with either of the advisers  in 2017. As this 
was not raised  until after my provisional decision, I do not think Ms E attached a great deal 
of significance to this issue at the time.  I accept  the service provided did not meet  Ms Es 
expectations. She was clearly unhappy about being  transferred to a new adviser. And I 
accept the software  was not something  Ms E found useful. However,  my view remains  that 
SJP did provide a service  to Ms E, so I do not think a refund  of the fees paid in 2017 is 
appropriate.
What happened  in 2018-19?
The events in 2017 were intended to make preparations for Ms E to receive an income from 
her pension funds  in 2018.  The income  did not start until February 2019 and this delay is, in 
my view, as a result of errors  made by SJP.
It appears to me that Ms E was proactive in 2017  and 2018  trying to make  arrangements  for 
her income to be paid in a way that was suitable  for her. I accept that she delayed  matters in 
October 2018 because  she was concerned  about the investment conditions at that time.  
Ms Es response to my provisional  decision provided a lot of detail about what happened and 
highlighted a number  of things she says went wrong. I dont  need  to deal with all of those 
Ref: DRN89329797points because I am satisfied SJP did make mistakes. I cannot see any reason why SJP 
could not have given advice to Ms E about starting  an income from her pension.  And the 
income should have been  available when Ms E required it in August 2018.
Ms E has made many points and asked  questions about the information SJP included  in the 
suitability report and how it came  to be issued. I do not intend to deal with all of those  points. 
It is sufficient for me to say that the advice was given  too late and there  were  delays in 
providing Ms E with her pension income. Any issues that affected the advice, including  the 
suitability of the advice Ms E received will be dealt  with as part of a separate  complaint.
Ms E has asked for £1,500 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused by 
SJPs errors. Clearly, Ms E did not have the income  she required. This must  have been 
distressing and inconvenient for her. She says she borrowed from her partner. I am sure this 
caused significant concerns for her. It is never easy to assess how much compensation 
should be awarded for distress and inconvenience,  but I have taken account of our usually 
approach to these  issues. I think an award of £500  is significant and is appropriate in the 
circumstances of this case.
Fair compensation?
In my view, SJP did not provide the service they charged Ms E for from January  2018 to 
January 2019  inclusive.  SJP should refund the fees Ms E paid between  January 2018 and 
January 2019  inclusive.
Ms E also delayed taking  her pension benefits from August 2018 to February 2019. This was 
initially the fault of SJP in not providing Ms E with the advice she had requested. I accept 
Ms E then gave instructions to put her withdrawal  on hold. She explained this was as a result 
of a fall in the value of her pension  fund. If she had withdrawn her pension benefits at that 
time, she would  have had to sell more units. I think it was reasonable to delay taking benefits 
for that reason.
The loss, if any, by delaying taking pension benefits in August 2018  was caused by SJPs 
inaction. SJP should  therefore establish  how many units were sold in February 2019 and 
compare this to the number  of units that would have  been sold in August 2018. SJP should  
then compensate Ms E for the value of those units. This should  preferably be by adding the 
units to Ms Es pension  plan. If not, this should  be paid to Ms E as a cash sum. Ms E is a 
non-taxpayer, so no adjustment needed to be made for the effect of income tax.
Simple interest, at a rate of 8% gross a year, should  also be added to the £20,000 Ms E 
wished to withdraw in August 2018  until the date it was paid in February 2019.
Ms E has also been caused a significant amount  of distress and inconvenience because  of 
the delay to her pension  benefits. In my view, an amount of £500  is appropriate for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Ms E. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc must calculate and pay 
compensation to Ms E as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
Ref: DRN89329798Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932979