K822xcomplaint
Miss D has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) wrongly  cancelled  
her motor policy when  a direct debit  was unable to be collected.
Miss D is represented by her mother Mrs D. As its been Mrs D who has corresponded with 
us throughout  this complaint, I shall just refer to Mrs D mostly for the sake  of simplicity.
background 
Miss D took out this policy and her mother Mrs D was paying the premium by instalments 
through her own bank  account. Unfortunately, she cancelled the direct debit instruction to 
RSA by a mistake.  
RSA then cancelled  the policy and Mrs D had to arrange another  policy for her daughter, 
which was more expensive. Mrs D then complained.  
RSA said it had cancelled  the policy too soon. So it agreed to waive the outstanding  balance 
of £186.89. It also said Miss D didnt need to declare the cancellation to any new insurers.  
And it said it would  pay Miss D £100  compensation. But it transpired RSA didnt issue  the 
compensation so Mrs D complained again. It apologised and paid her a further £30 
compensation. 
Mrs D said RSAs error had cost her daughter an additional premium  of £1,248 in premium 
and she thought RSA should  refund this too. As Mrs D got no response from RSA, she 
brought her complaint  to us. 
The investigator asked  RSA to consider the additional premium issue as part of this 
complaint as Mrs D hadnt raised it with RSA initially. RSA agreed.  Following discussions 
with the investigator, it agreed to refund Mrs D the further sum of £522.29. The investigator 
thought this was reasonable.  However, Mrs D remained  dissatisfied so her complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint along  the same  lines as the investigator  did. 
First, I think its appropriate to note that this issue  arose  solely from the fact Mrs D made  a 
mistake and wrongly cancelled her direct debit instruction to RSA.  Had that not happened, 
then none of the ensuing  complaint from Mrs D would have occurred.
Insurers are entitled to cancel policies for non-payment of the premium.  In law, the full 
premium is due once  the policy commences but almost all motor  insurers,  RSA included, 
recognise payment  of the premium is easier  for their policyholders if they permit  it to be paid 
by instalments. But the insurance industry  does this as a concession, and I consider that 
needs to be noted.
RSA confirmed that because of Mrs Ds wrongful cancellation of her direct debit instruction 
to pay it the required  premium for her daughters cover, it initiated the cancellation  of the 
policy too soon.  Its apologised for that, which is reasonable.
Ref: DRN87425992Mrs D raised issues with how the time on risk was calculated, as she didnt believe it was 
correct. However we asked RSA for information on this and Im satisfied the time on risk 
calculation is correct.  Miss D was given details of how such  time on risk issues  were  
calculated in her policy  documents. These  are found  in the cancellation section and more 
specifically in the cancellation after 14 days section. Based on these terms, RSA said Miss 
Ds time of cover  was £940.16. Mrs D had paid a deposit of £493.21 and subsequent 
payments of £260.06.  Therefore, there was an outstanding amount owed by Mrs R to RSA 
of £186.89. RSA waived that, because of its error in cancelling the policy  too soon, so in 
effect Mrs D gained that amount as a benefit.   
Due to the cancellation, Mrs D had to buy her daughter a new policy, which cost her 
£1,855.28. The policy she had bought  with RSA would have cost her £1,332.99.  So theres 
obviously a difference.  Following discussions  with the investigator,  RSA has now paid that 
difference of £522.29 to Mrs D. I consider thats  fair and reasonable. 
So I think Mrs D has now been effectively refunded the extra she needed to pay for this new 
policy. Further, there is no requirement  as confirmed by RSA for Miss D to disclose this 
cancellation to any new insurers.  Therefore  she will not be penalised this going forward.  I 
consider this reasonable. 
Mrs D has complained of poor service  from RSA, which means she doesnt  think the 
compensation it has now paid of £130  is enough.  However, in real terms it has paid her 
more compensation  than that, as it also waived  the time on risk cost of £186.89.  That totals 
£316.89. 
I consider this is very reasonable compensation and is more  than I would have awarded, had 
RSA not paid any compensation. I also consider this adequately  takes  care of the loss of No 
Claims Bonus, which Miss D lost for a few months  as had the policy not been cancelled, 
Miss D would have received her NCB a few months  earlier that she did. 
my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
However given RSA has refunded the extra premium and waived the time on risk due, I dont 
consider it has to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742599