K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  Fairmead Insurance Limited  hasnt dealt  with a claim made under 
their home insurance fairly. 
background
Mr and Mrs M had their buildings  and contents  insurance through Fairmead. In 
October 2018 they were notified  by the local water authority that water might  be leaking at 
their property. The water authority attended, and two leaks were discovered, one in the 
mains which  ran under their house, and another in the kitchen. 
Mr and Mrs M notified Fairmead of the escape  of water and were told the claims would be 
treated as two separate claims. They were told to trace and repair  the leaks,  take 
photographs of the damage  and a surveyor, which Ill call B, would be sent out to review  
the damage and arrange  repairs. This complaint only concerns  the damage caused  as a 
result of the leak in the kitchen. 
B surveyed the damage and set out a scope of works to repair the damage and a quote for 
repairs came  in around £2,900.  However, as both Mr and Mrs M both worked full time, they 
say they appointed a loss adjuster. The loss adjuster arranged  for a separate quote  for 
works, which came in at around £10,000. On that basis,  they disagreed with the scope of 
works completed by B and asked  for it to be reviewed. As I understand it, the scope of works 
was increased to include 25% of the cost of replacing unmatched  items,  which  came to a 
little over £3,000.  
Mr and Mrs M continued to disagree  with the amount quoted  and also made  the insurer 
aware that their daughter  suffered asthma and wanted to know if alternative accommodation 
could be provided;  they said they had also been  without hot water for a number of weeks. 
Fairmead asked for a doctors letter. Mr and Mrs M complained about how their claim had 
been handled. 
A final response was issued explaining that it was Mr and Mrs Ms responsibility to fix the 
leak and so get hot water back up and running.  It was also satisfied  the scope of works  was 
correct, as was the cost and was satisfied a fair and consistent service had been  provided. 
Mr and Mrs M asked  us to get involved when  copying  in a reply  to the insurer,  this included 
evidence of their daughters asthma,  which had worsened as a result of the works. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. Because there was such  disparity  between  the two 
quotes for work, she asked the insurer to arrange an independent inspection.  She also 
believed £1,000 compensation should  be awarded because no alternative accommodation 
had been arranged despite it having been  provided  with evidence of their daughters medical  
condition. She also recommended that alternative accommodation be arranged  if works 
were ongoing.  
Mr and Mrs M agreed to the outcome. But Fairmead  didnt.  Although it acknowledged it likely  
received the medical information it doesnt think £1,000 compensation is warranted. It 
believes their own loss adjuster ought  to have made provisions  to reduce the dust levels in 
the property and so it isnt responsible  if this didnt happen. It also didnt agree the quote 
provided was truly independent; it pointed out a connection between their loss adjuster and 
the contractor who quoted  for works; and that since  then the loss adjuster had been struck  
Ref: DRN84763382off. It therefore doesnt believe the quote is reliable. Fairmead also commented that the 
excavations carried out for trace and access were  excessive. 
I issued my provisional decision on 14 May 2020.  Fairmead confirmed it didnt have any 
further arguments for me to consider.  Mr and Mrs M queried the settlement amount and what 
I was awarding 50% of. Other  than that, I understand they accepted my findings. 
As neither party has provided any further arguments for me to consider what  follows is my 
provisional decision made final. I will explain further my award for Mr and Mrs Ms benefit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that there was an escape of water  or that cover  is provided for this under 
the policy.  So I dont  need to consider that further. But having  considered  everything 
provided (I have only summarised the background above), it seems to me the crux of this 
complaint is whether alternative accommodation should have been  arranged; whether the 
settlement offered was sufficient and if compensation  is warranted  for any distress  and/or 
inconvenience that Mr and Mrs M and their family  have suffered as a result of any wrong 
doing by insurer.  
Scope of works
Fairmead arranged  for B to survey  the damage and to quote  for the cost of repairs. Its 
important to note that the scope of works only quotes for the damaged  items  that need  
repairing or replacing  this is all the policy entitles Mr and Mrs M to. B is a business  that 
works within the industry and carries out this type of inspection and assessment all the time. 
I find it fair for Fairmead to rely on the information  given,  unless  it is obviously wrong. I 
havent seen anything to suggest the scope of works  was obviously wrong.  
I have considered the quote provided  by Mr and Mrs B, which was obtained through their 
loss adjuster. Whilst Im not necessarily concerned about the connection between  the loss 
adjuster and the company  that quoted, I am concerned that there  has since been  a striking 
off. This does suggest wrong doing  of some sort and so it is hard to find the quote reliable 
such that I dont find it persuasive.  
In any event, I note the quote includes a full replacement of the kitchen. My understanding 
from Fairmead is that only a few of the kitchen  units were  damaged.  Unless Mr and Mrs M 
had matching items cover,  they are not entitled to have a full replacement of the kitchen 
provided for under the terms of the policy; only the damaged items. Their policy expressly  
excludes cover for any undamaged or unbroken items forming part of a set, suite or other 
article of uniform nature [see general  conditions  and exclusions].
However, we have a long-standing approach at this service where policyholders  might  find 
themselves with unmatching furniture/items, through no fault of their own,  following an 
insured event. Whilst insurers are equally not at fault, our approach is to ask insurers  to 
make a 50% contribution to the cost of replacing undamaged/unbroken items where they are 
part of a matching  set  such as a kitchen,  with the remainder being met by the policyholder.  
I see no reason to depart from that here.  
Ref: DRN84763383Fairmead did, after the matter was referred here, agree to increase the settlement to cover  
50% of matched items  as a gesture of goodwill. However, it is aware that this has been our 
approach for some considerable time and so I find it was acting unfairly when not making  an 
allowance for that when  the scope of works  was reviewed; it only agreed  to cover 25%. I 
therefore require  Fairmead to increase  the settlement offer to include an uplift  for the cost of 
replacing 50% of the undamaged or unbroken matched items. 
I also need to make Mr and Mrs M aware that as an insurer, Fairmead will have access  to 
tradesmen and materials at a cost lower  than would be available  to policyholders or the 
general public.  This again goes someway to explain why there are differences in the quotes. 
As I understand it, Fairmead is willing to carry out repairs, but Mr and Mrs M want a cash  
settlement instead.   As Fairmead is willing  to carry out repairs,  Mr and Mrs M are only 
entitled to a cash settlement for the amount it would cost Fairmead to carry out repairs; not 
the amount it would cost them. 
Mr and Mrs M have  queried whether the 50% includes  white goods, and is 50% of their 
quote for a replacement  kitchen? As set out above, their policy entitles them  to settlement for 
goods damaged  as a result of the insured event. So if white  goods were  damaged  as a 
result of the escape  of water then they should  form part of the scope of works and be 
included in the settlement offer already made.  However, if the white  goods were 
undamaged, then Mr and Mrs M arent  entitled to any settlement if they choose to replace  
them with new white goods when having  works done on their kitchen. And our approach  is to 
ask an insurer to contribute 50% towards  the cost of replacing any undamaged items that 
formed part of a matching set that will no longer be matching as a result of the claim  for 
example, if two kitchen  units out of ten are damaged, we would ask the insurer  to make a 
50% contribution to the replacement of the remaining eight units. 
Alternative accommodation
Mr and Mrs M are covered for alternative accommodation under the terms of their home 
insurance. This is provided  where  the home  is made uninhabitable. Uninhabitable  isnt 
defined within the policy terms. I think a property would be unhabitable,  if there  were  no 
kitchen, bathroom  or toilet facilities (basic  necessities for daily living) or if it was unsafe to be 
lived in. 
Mr and Mrs Ms daughter suffers with asthma. So its understandable that her condition 
might be adversely affected by any works being  carried out to the property. I also accept that 
it was a number  of weeks before Mr and Mrs M provided evidence of their daughters  
condition. Given providing alternative  accommodation would incur an additional cost, I dont 
find Fairmead was acting unfairly when asking for this information. But I do think  it was 
wrong not to act on that information  once it was provided. 
That said,  I have seen  pictures of the kitchen following the trace and access works. And I 
find the excavations  themselves  would have made the property unsafe to live in and the 
kitchen largely unusable.  So putting their daughters medical condition to one side, I find that 
alternative accommodation should  have  been  offered.
I note that Fairmead  said the trace and access works were excessive and that any 
tradesman would know that.  But it was Fairmead that told Mr and Mrs M to arrange their 
own trace  and access. Im not aware they had any specific knowledge  about  how such  
works should be conducted to know whether what had been done  was excessive or not. And 
I think Fairmead should have fairly taken account  of the condition of their home when 
considering alternative  accommodation. At the very least, I think it should have offered to 
Ref: DRN84763384provide alternative  accommodation (or cover the equivalent costs) for the time it would have 
taken its contractors to carry out repairs. 
I considered Fairmeads  points about  Mr and Mrs Ms loss adjuster and that he should have 
arranged covers and dust sheets. Whilst I agree  to some extent with its submissions, I dont 
find them  persuasive,  as I have found above, the property was unsafe and so alternative 
accommodation should have been offered.  Mr and Mrs M were  living  in an unsafe property 
with a daughter  who had an existing  medical condition. As Fairmead didnt fairly take 
account of that, I find it should compensate them for the distress this caused.  
I understand that work has still not been  completed  on the property. I do think Fairmead  
could have provided better explanations  about what Mr and Mrs M were entitled to under the 
terms of the policy  and that it should  have offered alternative accommodation.  But I dont 
think Fairmead needs to compensate Mr and Mrs M because works still havent been  
completed; in law there is a duty to mitigate any loss, and I think Mr and Mrs M could have 
arranged repairs whilst  waiting for this dispute to be settled.   I remain of that view.  
putting this right
I require Fairmead to:
Increase its settlement offer to include a 50% contribution towards  the 
undamaged/unbroken matched items in the kitchen upon provision from 
Mr and Mrs M of a quote for replacement of the matched items, on a like for like 
basis. 
Add 8% simple interest per annum to the settlement sum from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.  
Pay Mr and Mrs M £750 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited to redress  Mr and Mrs M 
as set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr and Mrs M to accept  or reject  my decision before 23 July 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8476338