K821x#15complaint
M is a limited company.
Ms representatives have complained that Ulster Bank Ltd didnt do more to protect  Ms 
business accounts from ongoing  fraud.
background
Between August and November 2017,  three  standing orders were  fraudulently  set up on Ms 
business accounts, and funds were  debited.
In January 2018, there was another  fraudulent  attempt to set up a standing  order.  Ulster 
Bank was suspicious  of the instruction  it received and contacted Ms representatives  to 
check whether it was genuine. They  confirmed  it wasnt,  and the standing  order wasnt set 
up. 
Ulster Bank has said that the fraudulent standing order instructions it processed in 2017 
were not signed  in line with the bank mandate held for Ms accounts, and it has apologised 
for the poor service it has provided.  All of the funds that debited Ms accounts under the 
standing orders have  been refunded, along with any corresponding charges. And Ulster 
Bank has recorded the fraud on Ms account  notes, along with warnings and instructions to 
take more care with, or not to process any future standing order  instructions received.
Our investigator thought that Ulster Bank had done enough to resolve the complaint. But Ms 
representatives didnt  agree. They wanted  some compensation and an assurance  that steps 
had been taken to prevent further fraud  attempts. So the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 23 August 2019.  Ive set out my findings below.
I noted that Ulster Bank  has ensured  M hasnt lost out financially because  of this matter, by 
refunding any money that debited its accounts under  the standing orders,  along with any 
corresponding charges. And that the warnings and instructions it has recorded on Ms 
accounts about the fraud appear to be working  Ms representatives have said that another 
attempt to set up a fraudulent standing order later on in 2018  didnt  get through the system.
But I thought Ulster  Bank could have done more to try to prevent the ongoing fraud  sooner 
than it did.
I said that each  of the fraudulent standing  orders set up in 2017 were  identified and refunded  
before the next was set up. But a warning to take extra  care with standing  order instructions 
wasnt placed on Ms accounts  until January 2018.
M is a small company, run by volunteers. And I thought that the time its representatives have 
had to spend dealing with this ongoing  matter, that was not resolved appropriately as soon 
as it couldve been, would  have inconvenienced M. For that, I provisionally decided that 
Ulster Bank should  pay M £100.
Ref: DRN88404362Ms representatives have said theyve found this situation stressful  to deal with, and I didnt 
doubt that. But this complaint is about Ms accounts,  and M is a limited  company  a 
separate legal  entity from the people  who run it. I said I can only compensate  M for its 
inconvenience in this case, I cannot compensate its representatives for the trouble or upset  
theyve personally  experienced.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ulster Bank replied to say, in summary: 
Our investigator concluded it had done  enough in checking  standing orders  being 
applied to Ms accounts. 
Ms representatives challenged our investigators opinion  on this case  and referred 
specifically to the time this service has taken to resolve it.
The third fraudulent standing order set up in 2017 was picked up on the same day 
that funds first debited  Ms account in November  2017, and this suggests that Ulster 
Bank was acting appropriately from as early as November 2017 by monitoring Ms 
accounts.
Ive said that a warning to take extra care with standing  order  instructions wasnt  
placed on Ms accounts until January 2018,  but Ulster Banks  final response letter of 
4 December 2017 confirms that a warning had been added to Ms accounts at that 
time.
Ms representatives replied to say that they werent  entirely happy with my provisional 
decision, but they had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator thought that Ulster Bank had done enough to resolve this complaint by 
refunding all the disputed payments and putting a warning on its files. And she said that a 
limited company cannot suffer  distress,  trouble or upset. I dont agree that she concluded 
Ulster Bank had done enough to check standing orders being applied to Ms accounts.  But in 
any case, Ms representatives have  asked for an ombudsmans decision, and it is my role to 
review all of the evidence afresh and reach  my own conclusions.
Ive read Ms representatives  response to our investigators opinion, and it seems clear  to 
me that they were not happy with the investigation conducted or the outcome reached. 
Complainants have the right to ask an ombudsman  to look at their complaint again.
Ulster Bank has said the evidence suggests  it was acting  appropriately  and monitoring Ms 
accounts by November 2017  because it picked up that funds had debited  Ms account 
under the third fraudulent  standing order set up in 2017, and refunded them  on the same  
day. But Ulster Bank still processed three separate standing order instructions  in late 2017  
that had not been signed  in line with the bank mandate  it held for Ms accounts. And funds 
debited Ms accounts under all three  fraudulent standing orders.  This is despite each of the 
fraudulent instructions being identified before the next was set up.
Ref: DRN88404363Ulster Bank has also said its final response letter points  to a warning about the ongoing 
fraud being added to Ms accounts as early as December 2017. But I havent seen this 
warning. The first warning  Ive seen was added in January 2018. In any event, I dont think it 
should make  a difference to the outcome of this case whether a warning was first recorded  
in December 2017 or January 2018. Either way, Ulster Bank didnt place any kind of warning 
on Ms accounts about the ongoing  fraud until three  separate fraudulent  standing  order 
instructions had been set up and identified.
Ive thought about everything Ulster Bank  has said but overall, I still think it couldve done  
more to try and prevent the ongoing fraud sooner  than it did. And I remain satisfied that 
Ulster Bank should  pay M £100 for the inconvenience caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided that Ulster Bank  Ltd should pay M £100 for its 
inconvenience in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8840436