K820x#14complaint
The complaint from Ms D and the estate of Mr D is about investments made by the late Mr D 
through a St. Jamess  Place Wealth Management  Plc (SJP)  Partner  (the partner).  Mr D 
was Ms Ds father and Ms D is a trustee  of the estate  (alongside  her two daughters) and was 
executrix of Mr Ds will. In the main,  Ms D says she is concerned  about  discrepancies arising 
from the investments  and a Deed of Gift problem  that remains  outstanding.
background
Available evidence  provides the following main/summary chronology:
July 2009   upon the partners advice, Mr D invested £100,000 into an Investment 
Bond account (account number ending  with G23);  some  withdrawals were thereafter 
made from it; it was surrendered in July 2015,  after he passed away, and the 
proceeds were used for and inheritance tax (IHT) liability.
January 2010   upon the partners advice, Mr D invested £35,000 into another 
Investment Bond  account (account number ending with D23); some  withdrawals 
were also thereafter  made  from it and the last withdrawal, which  appears to have 
surrendered the bond, was made in July 2015  for the same IHT purpose.
August 2010   upon the partners advice, Mr D invested a total of £125,000 in a Gift 
(account number ending with L41)  and Loan  (account number ending with J42)  
Bond; £3,000  was invested  in L41 and £122,000 was invested in J42; a further 
£310,000 was invested in J42 between 2010  and 2011;  no withdrawals were made 
from L41 but a number of withdrawals have been made  from J42 (up to July 2018).
2010  In the course of this year Mr D, Ms D, Ms Ds former companion (and his 
father) and the partner  collectively engaged  in setting  up a discretionary  trust, which  
was settled by Mr D, which appointed Ms D as a trustee and within which  her three 
children and her brothers two children  were equal beneficiaries. In the course  of this 
year Mr D also concluded his last will and testament in which Ms D was made 
executrix and trustee of the will, in which her brother  was bequeathed £75,000  and in 
which she was bequeathed, on trust,  the remainder  of Mr Ds estate.
2015  Mr D passed away in this year and probate  was thereafter granted  to Ms D in 
the same  year. The withdrawals/surrenders mentioned above also took place in this 
year, as did the IHT settlement.
2016  Ms Ds brother  was paid his £75,000 inheritance,  out of the estate, in this 
year.
Ms Ds complaint submissions raised  concerns about the following:
Not receiving a copy of the original trust document, despite her request(s).
The difference between her brothers inheritance of £75,000  and record of a 
withdrawal of £95,000 for the purpose of paying him the inheritance   the excess 
£20,000 was unaccounted  for.
A similar concern about  the difference between the estates IHT liability  of around 
£205,000 and the figure of around £170,000 described for this purpose in the 
partners paperwork  the deficit of around £35,000 was unaccounted  for.
The lack of information about the purpose behind surrendering G23 and the lack of 
clarity about who received the proceeds,  of around £105,000, from it  she, as 
executrix, did not receive the proceeds.
Collusion between the partner, her former companion and her former  companions  
father to defraud the estate  since their involvement in setting up the trust and to 
Ref: DRN84052612date. She says she has found the partner unhelpful  and intimidating since her father  
passed away; termination of her relationship  with her former companion (who is the 
father of one of the beneficiaries of the trust) was difficult  and she is convinced he 
has manipulated and/or will manipulate the trust/estate through his influence over the 
beneficiary; and her former companions father  acts in concert  with his son.
SJP addressed the complaint in the context of what was relevant to it/its partner. It looked  
into whether advice to Mr D was suitable for him  as opposed to being  unduly influenced by 
her former companion   and into the service provided by the partner. It concluded that:
G23 was invested  in 2009 and it made it possible for Mr D to make withdrawals; it 
also allowed for the surrender in 2015 which  contributed towards the IHT liability;  an 
attempt was made to put it in a trust but his life assurance application was declined 
so that could not happen; in the absence of evidence that Mr D expected G23 to be 
in a trust,  it does  not consider this a problem;  however, it notes that the surrender in 
2015 might have been delayed  to the date IHT was due in order  to avoid an Early 
Withdrawal Charge  (EWC), so as a gesture of goodwill it will refund the EWC of 
£1,063.01.
D23, in 2010,  met Mr Ds objectives for growth and income and was suitable for him; 
however it notes that he was the sole life assured  and that meant it had to be 
surrendered upon  his death; it considers that if this was not the case it would still 
have been surrendered  upon his death  as it was needed to contribute  towards the 
IHT liability;  but as a gesture of goodwill  it will refund the EWC of £722.21 applied to 
D23 when it was surrendered.
Mr Ds objective for L41 and J42 was mitigation  of IHT liability; the Gift and Loan 
Bond matched  this objective.
Ms D and her daughters are trustees  of the trust and they determine the instructions 
that control it, so the external manipulation shes concerned about does not appear 
possible.
It has provided Ms D with evidence that only around £76,000 was withdrawn from 
J42  with regards  to her brothers  inheritance   not the £95,000 figure she queried. 
The £20,000  difference she queried  relates to a discussion at the time about  her 
possibly making a lump  sum withdrawal in this amount  which  is why this amount 
was added, in the discussion,  to her brothers inheritance figure.  This did not proceed 
as she decided to take regular withdrawals  instead.
Around £105,000 was raised  from G23 to contribute towards the IHT liability  of 
around £205,000; around £64,000  was raised  from J42 for the same purpose;  around 
£36,000 was raised  from D23 also for the same  purpose;  the total of all the 
contributions matches the IHT liability amount so there is no discrepancy in this 
respect. The proceeds from G23 were sent directly  to HMRC, hence Ms D having no 
record of receiving  it. As a goodwill gesture for any confusion  caused to Ms D in 
relation to the IHT arrangements, it will pay her £500. A rounded  up total of all of its 
goodwill offers,  made without prejudice,  is £2,300.
It has provided Ms D with a summary  of activities in all of the investments.
It cannot find evidence of the concerns she raised about the partners  behaviour and 
motives.
The Deed of Gift, for which SJP and its partner were not responsible,  appears  to be 
invalid and it highlighted the relevant reasons to Ms D. [SJP has since  agreed to 
extend its goodwill  offer to cover the reasonable costs of drawing up a replacement 
deed.]
Ref: DRN84052613One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should not be upheld 
 for broadly  the same  reasons given  by SJP and in light of SJPs goodwill offers. He also 
noted that a substantial part of the complaint matters raised by Ms D relate  to her personal 
relationships with  and concerns about   those she says are seeking to manipulate  the 
trust/estate. He clarified  that those matters are beyond the remit of the complaint and 
beyond SJPs responsibility.
Ms D had a number of queries about  the same  complaint issues  which the adjudicator  
assisted, where he could and with input  from SJP, in clarifying. The result(s) did not alter 
SJPs responses and position on the complaint issues and did not alter the adjudicators  
view on the complaint. Ms D considered that the Deed of Gift matter remained unresolved 
and the complaint was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
SJP and the adjudicator, respectively, afforded very detailed treatment to the complaint 
issues. I do not intend to duplicate  what they have done for the reasons I have summarised 
below. Having reviewed  documentation within the complaint  file, SJPs findings on the 
complaint issues  which were supported by the adjudicators findings  appear to be also 
supported by available evidence.
There is correspondence that shows Ms D has been  provided with a copy  of the original trust 
document. Her concerns  about financial discrepancies  within  and between the investments 
have been addressed and, upon my review, investments into and withdrawals  from them 
have been accounted for  as summarised  above. The same  applies to the arrangements 
and movements of money  related to the IHT liability (that is, investment withdrawals made to 
pay the IHT bill and the IHT bill amount that was paid), these too have been clarified and, 
upon my review, these  too have been accounted for.
I consider that Ms D has expressed  sincere concerns about those she says have sought or 
are seeking  to manipulate the trust/estate.  Her concerns appear to have been  presented  
with conviction  and a genuine  strength  of feeling.  However, it is a matter  that I do not 
address and have  not determined because it is remote to her complaint about SJP.
I do not consider  that SJP is culpable for any detrimental wrongdoing in the complaint. It 
does not appear  that the complaint featured an express issue about suitability of the 
investments but I appreciate how such an issue is implicit  in the wider context of the issues 
raised in the complaint. In this respect,  I am persuaded  that SJPs  submissions   supported  
by available  evidence  of what the circumstances  surrounding  the advice Mr D received in 
2009 and 2010 were  or probably were  are reliable and that the investments  were  suitable 
at the times of the recommendations. I also welcome the goodwill payments (up to the total 
rounded up goodwill payment) that SJP appears  to have  committed to pay Ms D. I do not 
find a basis to uphold  the complaint and demand more from SJP in this respect.
I also do not consider  that the Deed  of Gift matter is unresolved. SJP has assured this 
service, in writing (within its email  to the adjudicator of 14 June 2019) that it is prepared to 
extend its goodwill  offer to cover the reasonable costs incurred in/of drawing up a 
replacement deed.  Furthermore, I am not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to 
establish that any deficiency in the original deed was directly  caused by SJP or its partner.
Ref: DRN84052614my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  from Ms D and the estate of     
Mr D. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Ms D and 
the estate of Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 17 February  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8405261