K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc rejected her claim for 
compensation under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect  of legal services 
which were not provided to her. She also complains that Marks & Spencer blocked her credit 
card in reprisal for raising her section 75 claim.
background
In 2015 Mrs H instructed  a barrister on a direct  access  basis to defend  her in a court case 
against a law firm which was suing  her for unpaid fees. She paid the barrister  £480 using her 
Marks & Spencer (M&S) credit  card for a consultation. She paid him a further £3,000  in 
BACS transfers for his court appearances.  (Half  of this money  relates to a separate  case 
(her daughters), and so that matter  is the subject of a separate complaint.)
In 2016 the barrister told Mrs H, two days before  a court hearing, that he would be unable to 
attend the hearing. He arranged for another barrister to represent  her instead. Mrs H had 
paid the original barrister  £1,500 to attend that hearing; he paid the replacement  barrister 
£850 out of that money, and kept the balance of £650 in a client  account.  Mrs H complained 
to his chambers  about the fact that he did not attend  the hearing  himself, and about the short  
notice he had given  her that he could  not attend.  She asked for the £650 to be refunded to 
her. There  followed lengthy  correspondence  by email between  Mrs H and the barrister and 
the barristers clerk, which became heated. Eventually the barrister  sent her a cheque  for 
£650, which bounced.
Mrs H complained about these issues to the Legal  Ombudsman. In March 2017  an 
investigator at that service  issued a preliminary  decision, in which he found  that both the 
barrister and his clerk (for whose conduct the barrister was responsible) had provided poor 
service by failing  to refund the £650 in a timely manner, and also by sending Mrs H emails 
which were inappropriate in both their tone and their content.  He recommended that the 
barrister pay Mrs H £850, consisting of the long overdue refund and another £200 in 
compensation. The barrister accepted that decision,  but failed to pay, so the matter  was 
referred to an ombudsman. In April 2017 the ombudsman issued a final decision in which she 
made the same findings as the investigator  had, and ordered the barrister to pay £850.  Mrs H 
accepted that final decision in full and final settlement of her complaint, and so the decision 
became legally binding on both parties  under section 140 of the Legal  Services  Act 2007.
However, the barrister  still failed  to pay the £850  as ordered. Nearly  a year after the Legal 
Ombudsmans final decision he finally sent a second  cheque  to Mrs H, but this bounced too. 
A third cheque also bounced. The Legal Ombudsman obtained Mrs Hs permission to bring 
enforcement action against him, but I understand that Mrs H has still not been  paid (although 
I do not know why the enforcement action was unsuccessful or how far it was pursued).
Mrs H reported the barrister to the Bar Standards Board. The Board upheld  her complaint 
and suspended him from practice, but did not order him to pay anything.  (The Board  does 
not have power  to award compensation to third parties.)
Ref: DRN87926542Meanwhile, in March 2017,  Mrs H had raised  a claim with M&S under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act. She alleged that the barrister had breached his contract with her, and 
that he had misrepresented the services he would  provide. As well as complaining about the 
matters I have already  described, she also raised  further matters which had not been within  
the remit of the Legal Ombudsman.  She said that the barrister had failed to file a counterclaim 
as instructed, and had changed his advice to her. She said she ought to have  won her case. 
She asked  M&S to pay her compensation of £27,769.27 or £29,821.26, which  she said was 
what she should have  been awarded  in court if she had been competently  represented.
Soon after raising  this claim, Mrs Hs credit card was stopped.  She inferred that this was 
done in reprisal  for raising the claim. So she brought this complaint to our service.
On 13 June 2017, M&S wrote to Mrs H and asked her to provide more evidence  and better  
particulars in support  of her claim. She says she did not receive this letter. M&S asked her 
again in November and December. She replied in December, but did not provide the 
evidence asked for. So M&S did not uphold her claim, since it was unable  to determine 
whether the barrister had breached his contract  with her or had made a misrepresentation. 
But as a gesture  of good will, it offered to pay her £850,  being the sum the Legal  
Ombudsman had awarded her but which remained unpaid. (That  offer was subject to a time 
limit which has now expired.)
Mrs H did not accept  the offer. Instead  she further  complained to our service that M&S was 
wrong to reject her section 75 claim.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He agreed with M&S  that Mrs H had not 
provided it with enough  evidence for it to investigate  her claim. He also thought that section  
75 did not cover the court  hearings,  because each payment Mrs H had made had been 
separately invoiced, and so her credit card payment  had only covered her consultation  
meeting with the barrister in chambers. The court hearings had been paid for with BACS  
transfers, and section 75 does not apply to that form of payment. He also said there was no 
evidence that the barrister  had agreed  to submit a counterclaim, and no evidence about  the 
reasons why he hadnt. There  was no evidence on which he could  conclude  that Mrs H 
should have won her case, and the fact that she had lost was evidence that the case  against 
her had been strong. Finally, he accepted M&Ss  explanation for why it had blocked  her 
card. She had not responded to M&Ss  letters, and a statement had been returned  as 
undelivered, so M&S had put a gone away marker on her account and blocked her card 
until she got in touch. The investigator concluded  that M&Ss  offer of £850  was reasonable, 
and he did not think M&S  should have to do any more.
Mrs H did not accept  that decision. She said that although she had made multiple  payments 
to the barrister, she had only had one contract with him, and this had been partially funded 
by the credit card payment. So section 75 should apply to the court hearings. So this 
complaint has been referred to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
However, I am not going  to consider  whether the barrister was responsible  for Mrs H losing 
her case,  because that would require me to decide whether the court  made the wrong  
decision. That is not within my remit, as only another  court can decide  that.
Ref: DRN87926543Although Mrs H has told us that she never received M&Ss letter  dated  13 June 2017, in 
which it asked her to provide more evidence, she actually provided  a copy of that letter  to 
our investigator on 15 August of that year.  So I think she has just forgotten about it. I have 
read that letter, and M&Ss follow up letters of November and December. They  set out 
clearly what was required, and why. Her reply in December  did not include any evidence.  
So I can see why M&S  did not uphold her claim.
I agree  with our investigator that there  is no evidence to corroborate Mrs Hs claim that the 
barrister had agreed to file a counterclaim. Furthermore, I have  read the barristers client  care 
letter in which he explains that barristers do not conduct litigation. In particular, on page 5 it says:
You understand that Barristers do not handle  client money or undertake the 
administrative management of a case proceeding through a court ("the Conduct of 
Litigation")  or file court documents and pay court fees. Barristers may not serve  or 
accept service of documents in proceedings.
This is evidence which  suggests that the barrister  would not have agreed to file a 
counterclaim himself. It is true that the barrister  has an appalling disciplinary  record, and it is 
astonishing to me that he has not been disbarred.  So I cant rule out the possibility that he 
may have  broken the rules  about  barristers conducting litigation. However, I dont  think  I can 
fairly draw an inference that this is what he did, in the absence of evidence to suggest that 
he did. I take into account that none  of the disciplinary findings  against him were  for his 
conduct of legal proceedings.
Even if I took a different  view about  that, it would be difficult for me to conclude that an 
agreement by the barrister to file a counterclaim, in contravention  of his own terms of 
business served in writing  on Mrs H, as well as in contravention of the rules  of his 
profession, amounted to a contract  to do so. It follows that a claim about  his failure to do so 
wont be covered by section 75.
I dont think that a barrister changing  his advice to his client would normally amount to a breach 
of contract, or a misrepresentation. Lawyers  often have to change their advice in the light of new 
evidence, or even reconsideration of existing  evidence or of the law. I accept that in principle a 
lawyer could induce a client or a prospective client to instruct him to attend court by misleading  
her about  her prospects of success, and that this could amount to a misrepresentation to which 
section 75 could apply.  But I have not seen  enough evidence to persuade  me that this is what  
happened here. I have seen  an email  in which the barrister told Mrs H that her case was weak  
and that she should settle it out of court.  But I have  not seen anything to show  that he initially 
thought it was a strong case, or why he changed  his mind (if he did).
Mrs H has argued  that the barrister  duped her into instructing  him by failing to disclose his 
disciplinary record and his criminal  record. I can well understand why she would say that. 
His record is diabolical, and I do believe that she would  never  have instructed him if she had 
known about it. However,  failing  to mention something is not a misrepresentation. 
Misrepresentation is when a statement  of fact is made which  is untrue; it cant be done  by 
omission. So section  75 would not apply  to this.
Ref: DRN87926544In coming to that conclusion, I have taken into account edition 2.0 of the Bar Standards  
Boards Handbook , dated April 2015,  which is the edition which  was in force when Mrs H first 
instructed the barrister.  In particular, I have read paragraph rC19, entitled Not misleading 
clients and potential clients, as well as other paragraphs  in the same chapter. I am unable  to 
find any provision requiring a barrister  to declare any previous disciplinary findings to a client  
or potential  client, other than active suspensions or other sanctions imposing restrictions on 
the barristers entitlement to provide legal services,  or to declare any criminal  record.
I can deal briefly with the matters which have already been considered by the Legal 
Ombudsman. The ombudsmans final decision included this sentence:
If you decide to accept my decision, it will be binding on the barrister  and will be in full 
and final settlement  of this matter, so you will not be able to take any further legal 
action on the same facts.
This sentence summarises the effect  of section 140(11) Legal Services Act 2007, which reads:
(11) Neither the complainant nor the respondent, in relation to a complaint,  may 
institute or continue  legal proceedings in respect of a matter  which was the subject  of 
a complaint, after the time when a determination by an ombudsman of the complaint 
becomes binding  and final in accordance with this section.
Strictly speaking, the phrase  legal proceedings  means court proceedings, not a request to 
a credit card issuer  to consider a claim under section 75, or a complaint to another 
ombudsman service. But notwithstanding that nuance, I think  it would be fair and reasonable 
to consider the spirit of section 140, and to decide that M&S should not be held liable for the 
matters which have  been adjudicated on by the Legal Ombudsman. That is because a final 
decision by this service  is (if accepted by the complainant) legally binding on both parties, so 
it is akin to legal proceedings. And section 75 imposes legal  obligations on a credit provider, 
which are enforceable  in court. So although I have had regard to the way section 140 is 
drafted, I take the view that it is fair not to uphold this part of Mrs Hs complaint, even though 
it otherwise has obvious merit. I regret that that will disappoint her.
(Section 140 does  not prevent Mrs H (or the Legal Ombudsman on her behalf) from 
enforcing the Legal Ombudsmans award under  section 141.)
Finally, I have seen M&Ss  system notes. There is an entry dated 27 April 2017 which states  
that a gone away marker  was placed  on Mrs Hs account. So I accept M&Ss explanation 
that it temporarily blocked her card for that reason, and that it did so in good faith.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
Services consideration of this complaint,  which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8792654