K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains about charges applied by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
(trading as Volkswagen Finance)  (VFS)  after she returned a car it provided  under a hire 
agreement. 
Mrs H is represented by a relative but Ill refer to anything thats  been  said on her behalf as if 
Mrs H had said it herself, to keep things simple.  
 
background 
This car was new when  Mrs H got it in 2013. She returned it three years later at the end of 
the hire. A third party  agent  (that Ill call B) inspected the car on behalf of VFS. He found 
damage costing £316.42  to repair  as follows:- 
a dent to the bumper  rear panel - cost £138
a crack to the right hand door mirror housing - cost £40.42
a dent to the left hand sill panel  - cost £138
Mrs H doesnt agree that all of this damage was present and/or goes beyond  fair wear and 
tear. She wants VFS to remove the charges. 
VFS says the inspector  who checked the car was assessed the same  day by the RAC.  The 
RAC appraiser inspected  this car as well (as part of the appraisal process)  and found the 
same damage as the inspector  from B. VFS considers the charges have been applied  
properly but it offered  to reduce the amount for the rear bumper by 50% to £69 - reducing 
the total charges to £247.42  - as a gesture  of goodwill. 
One of our adjudicators considered the matter.  He is satisfied that Mrs H agreed  to keep this 
car in good  repair  and condition. And she was responsible for any damage - aside  from fair 
wear and tear - under  the terms of the hire agreement.  He reviewed the evidence  - which  
includes photographs taken at the time. Hes satisfied  there  was damage present which  
exceeds fair wear  and tear under  industry guidance from the British Vehicle Rental Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). He doesnt think its unreasonable  for VFS to charge for that. He 
considers the offer to reduce the charges seems fair and doesnt recommend VFS should 
have to do anything  further.    
Mrs H disagrees.  She says (in summary)  
there was no dent in the bumper - its made of epoxy resin  which  doesnt dent; 
the inspection  photographs dont show a dent in the bumper or sill;
the driver  that collected the car signed to say he didnt see any damage;
the RAC  report is not independent - the inspection report and the RAC report use 
exactly the same words; 
Mrs H had the car inspected by an approved  pre-return repairer who recommended  
taking photographs of any damage  alleged at the time of the inspection  and not to 
sign for any false claim;
photographs  taken  when the car went back show  theres  no damage on the left hand 
sill - only the trim of the door mirror is cracked and shes  willing to pay for that;.
the alleged  damage to the car does not meet the BVRLA  criteria - its within normal  
wear and tear for a car of a similar age and mileage;
Ref: DRN88559832the charges  applied  by VFS are disproportionate  to any alleged  damage and VFS 
didnt repair the car so theres  no loss to speak of. 
Mrs H feels these charges are the result of an unscrupulous inspector working his 
commission by overstating the condition of the returning car. She asked for an ombudsman  
to review the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I can see that Mrs H feels  very strongly that these charges  are unfair.  I want  to assure her 
that I have  considered everything that shes said and sent to us carefully.  I am sorry to 
disappoint Mrs H but I have reached  much the same  conclusions as our adjudicator  for 
broadly the same reasons.  
I realise it must have  been frustrating for Mrs H to have gone to the trouble of having this car 
checked before it went back  to VFS - only to find the inspector VFS appointed found there 
was damage present.  Mrs H told us the person who checked the car on her behalf said the 
damage to the wing mirror was probably chargeable. She accepts shes liable to pay for that 
so I dont think I really need  to address  her responsibility for this damage much further. For 
the avoidance of any doubt  however, I am satisfied the wing mirror is damaged  beyond  fair 
wear and tear. And I cant fairly say the amount charged seems unreasonable. 
I understand Mrs H doesnt accept  that theres damage to the bumper and sill beyond  what  
should be considered fair wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage. But, having 
considered both the report  from B and the RAC report - which include photographs taken of 
the car at the time - I think its likely there  was damage present. Like our adjudicator,  Ive 
reviewed the relevant  BVRLA guidance. I am satisfied this damage seems to exceed  what  
should reasonably be considered fair wear and tear and I cant fairly  find its not chargeable. 
I appreciate the collection  agent signed to say there  was no damage present when the car 
was picked up. But, I am satisfied this agent did not carry  out a full inspection at the point of 
collection. The collection  note Mrs H signed  at the time says 
I confirm  the above vehicle has been subject to an initial appraisal and whilst every  effort  
has been made to identify  damage, light, weather  and other  conditions  may not make this 
possible. I understand the vehicle may be subject to a full and more  qualified inspection  
upon return and any damage identified will be assessed and may be charged in 
accordance with my contract. I understand that this initial appraisal  is not a wear and tear 
assessment. 
I think it was made reasonably clear that a full inspection would be carried out later on and 
Mrs H might be charged if damage was found  - in line with BVRLA  standards.
I can see that Mrs H had some concerns about the RAC report  - she thought  the person who 
signed it didnt  actually work  for the RAC.  Our adjudicator checked and the RAC confirmed 
Ref: DRN88559833that the inspector named  on the report is an RAC inspector. I think its reasonable to take 
into account the fact that the RAC appraiser identified the same three issues  as the 
inspector from B did here. 
I am satisfied, on balance, that the damage  VFS charged for is present. I think it goes 
beyond whats considered fair wear and tear under industry guidance and the amounts 
charged dont look unreasonable. Im satisfied Mrs H is liable to pay for such  damage under 
the finance agreement she signed. And VFS is not obliged to carry out these repairs  - it may 
decide to send the car straight to auction for commercial reasons. So, I cant  reasonably 
require VFS to reduce the damage  charges any further or do anything  else in response to 
this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  
should reduce  the damage  charges to £247.42  in line with its offer but Im unable to require it 
to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8855983