K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her and the late Mr K a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K were  sold a mortgage PPI policy in 2002 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in joint names,  the PPI only covered Mr K. It would have 
provided a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K was off work sick or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs K didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will now explain why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr K was eligible under  the policy.  Based on his age, 
residence and employment  at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs K that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to Mr and Mrs Ks account.  Mrs K says that they wouldnt 
have selected  or requested PPI. Mrs K says the fact that they cancelled the PPI a few  
months after it was sold,  also shows that they didnt want it and wouldnt have asked for it.
Understandably given the length of the time since the sale, Santander no longer have the 
documents from the time of the sale and so I cant see for sure how PPI was presented 
during the sale.  Equally understandably, Mrs K hasnt  provided detailed evidence  of what  
happened during the sale.
However, I am aware  of what Santanders  sales  process  was like at the time of the sale and 
this would have  included completing a separate application form for PPI as well as a 
separate direct debit  mandate. I havent  seen  sufficient evidence  to conclude that this didnt 
happen in this particular case. I also note that that Santander have told us the insurers say 
that Mr K contacted  them to amend the start date of the policy. So, balancing this against  
what Mrs K has told us, I cant say its more likely that Santander didnt make  it clear to Mr 
and Mrs K that PPI was optional  and bearing in mind that the PPI was taken out several  
years after the mortgage  - or that it was applied to the account  without their agreement.
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs K to take PPI. This means  they had to check it 
was suitable for them.  I dont know  if Santander  took all the steps they should have to check 
if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs K but I do think the policy  was suitable for them. I say 
this because:
Ref: DRN82184572-I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that Mr K would have been entitled  to sick 
pay from his employer. But even  if he was entitled  to some sick pay, the policy  would 
have paid out in addition  to this and likely for a longer period of time. It would also 
have paid out if Mr K lost his job.
-Mr K didnt  appear to have been  affected  by the terms in the policy  which would have 
made it difficult for them to make  a successful claim under the policy.
-I havent seen  any evidence which suggests the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr and  
Mrs K at the time of the sale.
-Mr and Mrs K could  have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing  out financially 
if they no longer  wanted or needed  it. I understand the policy was cancelled  in 
December 2002.
As well as checking that the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs K, Santander also had to give 
them clear  information  about the PPI  in particular about the costs,  benefits  and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs K wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for them.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Santander mis-sold Mr and Mrs K 
this PPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint against  Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019 on behalf of herself and the estate of the late    
Mr K.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8218457