K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund four transactions  
taken from his account using his credit  card, which he says he didnt  make  or authorise.
background
Mr S says that his details  were used to sign up to a gaming site in September  2017. At that 
time, he was out of the country,  with no internet access, so it couldnt possibly have been 
him. He told Halifax about this but it wont refund the transactions.
Halifax attempted a chargeback for the amounts Mr S disputed,  but the merchant 
successfully defended it. So Halifax refused to refund the disputed  amounts.
Our adjudicator thought, on balance, and in light of the evidence,  it was most likely that Mr S 
had registered  with the site and, in doing so, agreed to pay the monthly subscriptions.
Mr S didnt agree. In summary, he said that he didnt get any of the promotional offers or 
play any of the games,  so he thinks the money  was wrongfully taken from his account. He 
would like it to be refunded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
The disputed transaction was made in October  2017. The regulations relevant to these are 
the Payment Service  Regulations 2009. In short, the regulations  say that Halifax  can hold Mr 
S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that he most  likely made or 
authorised it himself or if they were  made  possible because he was sufficiently negligent in 
his care of his card or security details.  
Mr S says he didnt sign up to this site and is seeking a refund. So my primary concern is to 
come to a view about whether or not I think Mr S authorised  the transactions.
Initially, Mr S thought the account had been opened in September  2017 when he wasnt  in 
the country and when  he didnt have any internet access. But Im satisfied that he was at 
home when  the account, to which the disputed transactions were made, was opened in 
October 2017.
The merchant has confirmed that when the account  was opened, Mr Ss name, address, 
postcode and credit card details, including the last three security  digits  (CVV) on the reverse 
of the card,  were entered. Im satisfied that Mr Ss address and the CVV were verified when 
the first £3 payment  was taken.
So Ive gone  on to consider the possible explanations for how the disputed transactions  were  
made. These are:
Mr S signed up and made the payments himself
Someone with Mr Ss authority used the card details  to register
Ref: DRN81044062Someone known  to Mr S accessed  his card details and signed up to the account without 
Mr Ss consent
Someone unknown  to Mr S was able to use his card details to fraudulently make the 
payments
I cant know for sure what happened  in this case so I must make my decision based  on the 
balance of the evidence.
the online account
The merchant also says that it sent out an email asking the account holder to click on the 
link provided to confirm  various details.  Im satisfied that the email address it used was one 
that belonged to Mr S. So if Mr S didnt set this account up himself, I consider the person 
who did knew not only Mr Ss personal information but also his credit card details. The terms 
of Mr Ss account say that Mr S should  keep the card safe.  
Mr S hadnt  reported  the card as lost or stolen  or compromised in any way. He said that no 
one had access to his card and he keeps  it in his wallet. He used the card himself  the day 
before the first disputed transaction and then again  a few days later.
the transactions
Over the course of about three months,  four payments, totalling  £213, were taken from Mr 
Ss account. Mr S says he didnt carry out these transactions. 
I have looked  very carefully at the promotion  that this merchant  was running. For signing up 
and paying £3 it offered  the chance  to win a smart phone. It also offered free portable  
speakers (a welcome bonus) and three days access  to the website. At the end of the three  
day trial period,  the membership automatically  continued into a recurring subscription of £70 
per month.
Mr S says that he didnt  sign up to this and didnt authorise anyone else to. From what he 
now understands he was supposed to receive the speakers but they didnt  arrive.  The 
merchant has said that there were  a number of registration stages  to go through  before it 
would send out the speakers. In summary, these required the subscriber  to click on a link in 
a welcome email and enter a password to login  to the account to add the postal address. It 
then sent a letter by post with a PIN to be used to verify the postal  address.  It also required 
at least 10 games to be completed within the trial period.
Im satisfied that the merchant sent the initial email to Mr Ss genuine  email  address. I say 
this because the one that was registered is the same one that he has given to us. But I find 
no one logged into the account  and the registration process was not completed.
Ive considered whether someone  known  or unknown to Mr S to could have used his card 
and personal details. Mr S has very clearly said that he keeps his card in his wallet  and none  
of his family  or friends could have carried out these transactions without his knowledge. And 
Im not persuaded an unknown third party would  have done this. There  was no point of 
compromise to Mr Ss card. The account  was in Mr Ss name, using  his genuine email and 
home address. This would mean that if the registration had been fully completed the 
speakers would have been sent to Mr S. I also consider that an unknown party would have 
gone on to play the games but none were played.  So there was no benefit. And if an 
Ref: DRN81044063unknown third party had access  to Mr Ss card details I consider it highly likely that they 
would have gone on to use them for other  purchases and payments.
Based on everything  Ive seen, and on balance, I think its more  likely than not that Mr S 
registered to enter  into the promotional draw himself. I accept that he might not have 
realised that in doing so he was authorising to pay a monthly subscription but I cant safely 
hold Halifax responsible for these transactions. I realise Mr S will be disappointed  but I think  
it was fair and reasonable for it to refuse a refund.
chargeback
When Mr S disputed  the payments Halifax said that it tried to seek a refund by raising a 
chargeback claim with the merchant, under the VISA scheme. Chargeback  isnt a guarantee 
of a customer getting their money  back.  When a bank raises a chargeback,  the claim may be 
successfully defended. 
The merchant defended the claim and provided  evidence to show  that the transactions were 
valid because the details it held for the account  matched Mr Ss details.  So I dont think 
Halifax had any grounds to challenge  this.
I appreciate that Mr S will be disappointed  but Im satisfied that Halifax  has provided 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate that it may hold Mr S liable for these transactions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8104406