K820x#14complaint
Ms T has complained about interest  and fees charged by Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) on her credit card. Shes  also complained about the way she was treated when she 
told Halifax she was in financial  difficulty.
background
Ms T has held a Halifax credit  card since 2007.  In 2017 she told Halifax  she was in financial 
difficulty. She complained about  the interest  shed been charged and that Halifax expected 
her to pay the outstanding balance on the card in full, even though  she was in financial 
difficulty. Halifax didnt  uphold Ms Ts complaint  and she referred  it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She thought Halifax had 
charged interest in accordance with the terms and conditions on the account. She also 
thought Halifax  had reacted positively and sympathetically when Ms T told it she was in 
financial difficulty.
Ms T didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We operate under rules  laid down by the relevant regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority.  
These include rules about what complaints we can and cant  consider. Amongst other things, 
we cant generally  look at complaints about  events  which happened more than six years  
before the complaint was made. As far as this complaint is concerned, it means  I can only 
consider interest  and charges applied  to Ms Ts account since October 2011.
I think its reasonably well-known that interest  on credit card borrowing can be higher than 
other types of loans.  I think Ms T should have been aware when she took out her credit card 
that, if she didnt  clear the balance in full each month, she would pay a relatively high rate of 
interest. She says shes been charged interest  and fees amounting to between two and 
three times the amount  she borrowed  on her credit card. 
Ive been given copies of Ms Ts credit  card statements for the period from October 2011 to 
January 2018  and Ive looked at them  in detail. The outstanding balance on Ms Ts credit  
card in October 2011 was around  £10,000. Up to August 2015 she usually made  a monthly  
payment to Halifax that exceeded the minimum she had to pay. However,  the payments 
werent generally enough to cover both her spending during  the previous month and the 
interest applied  by Halifax. This meant  the outstanding balance increased slightly  each 
month and Halifax continued to charge interest.
Ms T also made some  payments  that were substantially more than her spending during the 
previous month and interest. This had the effect of reducing the outstanding balance  for a 
time but it went up again in subsequent months.  During the period from October 2011 to 
October 2017 the average outstanding balance on Ms Ts account was around £10,000. By 
October 2017 it had come  down to below £8,000.
Ref: DRN84849392During the above period  Halifax  applied interest  to the account totalling approximately  
£8,500. This is considerably less than the two to three times the amount borrowed claimed 
by Ms T. The interest accrued over a period of six years so the annual rate was about 14%. 
Im satisfied that this was a reasonable amount for Halifax to charge and it did so in 
accordance with the credit card terms and conditions.  Im not therefore persuaded I could 
reasonably require Halifax to write off all or part of the interest its charged Ms T.
Ive considered the action taken by Halifax in respect  of Ms Ts financial difficulty. Lenders 
are expected to treat customers  who are unable to meet their financial commitments fairly 
and sympathetically. But they are entitled to make  reasonable enquiries to establish  what the 
customer can afford to pay and to take reasonable steps to obtain payment.
Ms T made  a payment  to her credit card in October 2015 of £9,000  which brought the 
balance down to below  £5,500. By May 2016 it had gone back  up to over £7,500.  After  May 
2016 Ms Ts monthly spending  on the card was less than it had been  and she only paid the 
minimum amount each month.  Halifax says it realised this was a possible  indication of 
Ms Ts financial  difficulty and it wrote to her, offering support,  in February and August 2017.  I 
think Halifaxs action was reasonable  and it was Ms Ts decision whether or not to accept  the 
offer of support.
Ive listened to a recording  of the call Ms T made to Halifax saying she was in financial 
difficulty. She told Halifax she had contacted a charity that helps people who are in financial  
difficulty. Halifax agreed to put her account on hold for 30 days  so that the charity could put 
forward her proposals regarding payment of the credit card balance.  I think this was a 
reasonable response in the circumstances.
Ive also listened  to a recording of a call the charity made to Halifax about  a month later.  
Halifax explained that it expected Ms T to make an arrangement to pay as much  as she 
could afford  each month. It said it would freeze  interest on the account when the 
arrangement was agreed. The representative of the charity didnt put forward  any proposals 
and said she would  need to contact Ms T. Im satisfied  it was reasonable for Halifax to 
expect Ms T to pay what  she could afford each month. Id also expect it to want  to see 
evidence of her monthly income and outgoings before agreeing to an arrangement.
Ms T says Halifax then passed  her personal details to an organisation outside the UK that 
contacted her on a daily basis demanding to discuss  her bank accounts. Halifax says its 
collections department  tried to contact  Ms T to ask for her proposals regarding  the credit  
card. It says the call centres it uses for collections activity  are based overseas. I think the 
calls referred to by Ms T were made by Halifaxs collections department.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Halifax  to try to contact Ms T regarding the credit card 
balance and it was reasonably entitled  to use its overseas  call centres  to do this. Halifax  has 
provided a schedule of the calls it made to Ms T. Im not persuaded the number of calls was 
excessive, especially as the majority of them werent answered by Ms T. I havent seen any 
evidence that would  enable me to reasonably conclude Halifax passed any of Ms Ts 
personal information to a third party.
Ms T has complained about Halifax reducing the credit limit on her account  and making  
other changes. The credit card terms and conditions say Halifax  is entitled to change  the 
credit limit and make  other changes provided  it gives Ms T prior notice. Im satisfied Halifax  
gave Ms T notice of the changes it made. Lenders are entitled to make commercial 
Ref: DRN84849393decisions about the amount of credit they offer their customers. I wouldnt normally  interfere 
with these decisions unless I thought  they hadnt been applied  fairly  or had caused a 
customer unnecessary hardship.
I can see Halifax reduced Ms Ts credit  limit from £15,000 to £13,650  in January 2014. At the 
time of the change  the balance on the account  was less than £13,650. Ms T went over the 
new limit on three occasions up to April 2015. Halifax  charged her an over limit fee of £12 on 
each occasion.  I think Ms T would  have known shed incur a fee if she went over the new 
limit and I dont think the fees were excessive or unreasonably applied.  
Halifax reduced Ms Ts credit limit again in April 2016 to £7.800. After Ms T had paid £9,000 
to Halifax in October 2015 the balance of her account had always  been below the new limit. 
So I think Ms T had been able to operate the account  within  the new limit set by Halifax  and 
it was reasonable  for Halifax to make the reduction.
Halifax suspended  interest on Ms Ts credit card in December 2017.  Given this, and all of 
the above, Im satisfied  that Halifax treated Ms T fairly and reasonably  up to that date. Going 
forward, I expect Halifax to work with Ms T to come  up with an arrangement  for her to repay 
the outstanding balance  on her account.  Ms T will need to comply  with any reasonable 
requests made by Halifax for information to enable it to make  an assessment of her ability  to 
make payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8484939