K821x#15complaint
Miss H has complained about her home insurer,  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  in 
respect of a fire claim she made  to it.
background
On 16 August 2017 there was a fire in the house next-door to Miss H. Miss H was concerned  
for her pets, but they were unharmed. Miss Hs home was smoke  damaged  internally with 
some of the external UPVC fixtures being  melted.  Those remaining, and those internal to the 
property needed  cleaning. Admiral started to clean the internal parts of the property and a 
schedule for reinstatement  work  was drawn  up. But by mid-September work  hadnt started. 
A start date of 3 October 2017 was then set but a query arose about where Miss H would 
stay (my colleague is dealing with a complaint about  this).
The works began as planned  and were said to be completed by 10 November 2017. Miss H 
arrived home to meet  with Admirals surveying company which had been  managing  the 
repairs, but they had been and left before the agreed appointment time.  Miss H found  a few 
snagging issues which she thought should  have been attended to (including loft insulation,  
applied to the underside  of the roof, coming  away). These were then resolved within  a few 
days. 
A few months later Miss H went into her loft and found the insulation had started to fall down 
again. She contacted the contractor which had completed the repairs for Admiral  and they 
attended. A few months later Miss H found  the insulation was falling away again. Following 
this Admiral decided  that it should never  have  fitted  the insulation  (the contractor should only 
have re-fitted  insulation on the floor of the loft). But it said it was happy  for Miss H to reuse it 
so there  was no need for it to take it away.
Miss H had also been concerned about  a number of other issues that shed noticed with her 
home since the repairs had been  completed. Admiral sent a company R to make a report. 
It then sent E, the surveying  company  which had managed the repairs,  and following  that it 
asked its restoration  company  to attend to provide  an expert  opinion  on the discolouring 
Miss H had reported to her UPVC fixtures (those  which had only required cleaning  following 
the fire). Admiral wasnt minded to accept any liability for most of the issues Miss H reported; 
but regarding  some water damage it said whilst this was unrelated to the fire claim a new 
claim could  be made,  and regarding internal doors it paid for these to be repaired. 
In a final response issued in March 2019  Admiral  accepted there had been delays in 
replacing a window, as well as some  poor communication. It offered £500 compensation. 
Miss H was unhappy. She believed it was responsible for what  she saw as outstanding 
repair issues which it had denied liability for. She felt some communication had been  
inappropriate which had caused her great upset. She also felt Admiral had put her through  a 
lot with this claim; shed  needed to take time off from her new job and in January 2018  shed  
had to take sick leave, and later resigned.  Miss H complained to us.  
Our investigator felt Admiral should  pay a further £100 compensation so Miss H could 
remove the loft insulation. But he wasnt minded to make it do anything more.  Neither  Miss H 
nor Admiral  accepted the findings  and the complaint was passed  to me for review.  
Ref: DRN86908532I felt that there were a couple of repair issues that Admiral needed to resolve but I wasnt  
minded to make it pay further compensation. Miss H said she accepted  my findings.  Admiral 
also agreed, in the main,  but it said: We would like you to note we have already replaced 
the front window. It also said it would want to settle  for the repairs Id awarded  in cash.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Here, with the exception  of my comments about the window, are my provisional findings:
outstanding repair issues
Ive looked at the list of issues Miss H provided.  Ive grouped the related issues together  and 
given my view on each  below. 
Yellowing UPVC  and gloss paint
Miss H feels UPVC items and gloss paint  have yellowed since  the fire and repairs. Whilst 
two of Admirals experts noted yellowing, regarding the gloss  it was felt this was a sign of 
natural ageing. Admirals  third expert  was appointed  to specifically give a view on the UPVC 
elements. They werent persuaded  there was any yellowing. But the expert noted that UPVC 
does discolour overtime and that which occurs on account of smoke damage,  occurs within 
a short  period after exposure to smoke. And appropriate cleaning  halts  the reaction that 
causes the yellowing. 
I can see from the repair records that appropriate  cleaning was undertaken. I can also see 
that in the porch area, for example, cladding was removed, the surface below was treated 
and the cladding was replaced.  Im not persuaded that any yellowing Miss H is experiencing 
at her home is on account of the fire or Admirals failure to complete work at the property. 
External garden timbers are warped
Miss H feels wood has warped due to heat and/or water from extinguishment. Admiral  
doesnt think this is the case.  Admiral also thinks that the timber  gate post is suffering  from 
wear and tear which is causing a problem with locking the gate. Ive not seen evidence that 
timber items  at the property were affected by the fire, even though plastic and metal  
elements were and were  replaced as a result. So Im not persuaded Admiral  needs to do 
anything to reinstate  the external timber items. 
Dipping electrics
Our investigator initially felt Admiral  should investigate this, but he then noticed that the issue  
had only arisen  more than a year after the fire and repairs. On review  he felt Miss H would 
have to evidence  a link before it would be fair to make  Admiral do anything. Whilst I think  
thats a fair conclusion,  I note that Admirals  invoice for work does show that it tested the 
electrics at Miss Hs home. I also note that this was work which had been recommended  by 
E. Admiral has shown this work was done so it should also have paperwork showing the 
result of the test. I think it should provide this to Miss H.
Loft
Ref: DRN86908533Whilst Admiral  fogged the loft in September 2017, its expert, R, found in December 2018  
that there  was definitely still a strong smell of smoke. I note from Admirals file that the 
fogging was done before  the neighbouring property was reinstated. R also noted almost all 
of the insulation Admiral  had started  to install to the roof had fallen down. Photos evidence 
this too. Im not satisfied that the loft was cleaned effectively. I think the installation  of the 
insulation cant have  been done  very well, or it wouldnt have fallen down, and on more than 
one occasion.  I think Admiral will have  to re-fog the loft to remove  the smell of smoke and 
remove the insulation.  It wont need  to replace the latter though as it shouldnt  have  been  
installed in the first place.  
I know not all the timbers in the loft were treated with barrier paint. This has left some being  
mis-matched. Im not persuaded Admiral needs to do anything about this though.  Not for 
cosmetic purposes anyway. But when Admiral  treats  the loft for the remaining smoke smell, 
its expert should consider whether other  timbers  do need treating in order to resolve the 
odour issue.  
claim handling and delay
I know Miss H was unhappy during the very first visit by Admiral. She says comments  were 
made by the representative in reference to other  fire claims hed dealt with which  had 
involved the sad loss of pets. Whilst I dont know what  was said as I wasnt  there, I cant  
imagine that Miss H would have  made  this up. But I also cant  imagine  this would have been 
said with any intent  to upset Miss H, or even that it would have been said with a careless 
disregard for her feelings. Its more  than unfortunate that Miss H was upset by the 
conversation but I cant reasonably award compensation to her for that because Im not 
persuaded that feeling was caused  on account  of any fault or failure by Admirals  
representative.  
From what  I have  seen the repairs progressed in a reasonably timely manner. There were 
delays particularly during September. But Ive seen that E and the reinstatement  contractor 
needed to liaise with the contractors for Miss Hs neighbour.  I think  it was reasonable that 
repairs werent progressed until that meeting took place.  Repairs  were  then completed by 
mid-November. I think that was reasonable given the work required.  
It was unfair  for E to arrive and leave  before  meeting with Miss H on 10 November. I can see 
no good reason  for that having occurred. I fully understand why this frustrated Miss H.
Finding snagging issues can be frustrating but they are a normal  part of reinstatement work. 
I can see that despite the issue  with the meeting on 10 November, the snagging issues  were  
identified, accepted and resolved quickly  although  the fix for the loft insulation, with 
hindsight, was clearly  not a permanent one. And Id clarify that these,  with the exception  of 
the loft insulation, are not the same  issues as those discussed above under my heading 
outstanding repairs issues. 
I have identified some further  action  above  for Admiral to complete. So its responses to 
Miss H on those issues were unfair.  I have to take into account  then the upset Miss H has 
been caused by these  outstanding issues.
I know Miss H was signed off work in January 2018. Im sorry Miss H suffered as she did. 
However, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude this must be due to Admirals 
handling of the claim.  Having reviewed everything, and even noting that Admiral feels 
communication on the claim  was poor, with its repair of a window being  delayed, Im not 
Ref: DRN86908534persuaded it handled matters in a particularly poor way. And Im mindful the majority of 
issues had been  resolved  by mid-November 2017. Im also mindful that fires can be 
traumatic for those involved. 
Having considered everything, and taken  into account  that Admiral  has paid £500 
compensation already, Im not minded to make it pay anything more.  That is not said with 
any view of seeking to diminish what Miss H has been through. Rather I see £500 as being a 
relatively significant sum of compensation given the circumstances and failures which  
occurred here. If Admiral had not offered any compensation, I would not have awarded more 
than this sum.
Im aware that Admiral also paid Miss H £50 compensation for what it accepted were delays 
to it handling her complaint. Complaint handling is not a regulated activity, so I cant 
comment on this.
The parties have  in the main, accepted these findings. I, therefore,  wont discuss them  any 
further, save to say, they now form part of my final decision. Ive commented on Admirals 
request to settle  in cash below.
Turning to my findings about the window.  Admiral says it has already  replaced the front 
window. But what I said provisionally  was:
Front door window
Miss H says the glazing had blown following the fire. One of Admirals experts noted this. 
The other two only commented on the issue of discoloured UPVC.  Admiral says theres no 
reason to think the window was damaged. But that is hard for me to accept when its expert 
found this to be the case. And the porch window is closer to the seat of the fire than the 
lounge window, and Admiral accepted similar damage had occurred to the lounge  window as 
a result of the fire. I think Admiral must replace the blown front door window.
So it is the front door window which I am now requiring Admiral to replace.  Admiral  has not 
shown me that this was replaced previously   and Im mindful  that in response to enquiries 
made before I issued  my provisional  findings Admiral said this hadnt been  replaced because 
it wasnt, in its view,  damaged. I was always aware  and accepted that the front lounge 
window had been replaced.  Im not minded to change my findings  in this respect.  Im 
satisfied that Admiral must now replace  the front door window.
request to settle  in cash
Admiral said relations between Miss H and its contractor had broken down, plus,  with the 
current pandemic situation it would be at least three months before it could organise repairs. 
Therefore, it feels I should award  a cash settlement. 
I was aware when reaching my provisional  findings  that relations between  Admirals 
contractor and Miss H had broken down. But that doesnt in my view,  reasonably  preclude 
Admiral from completing the contract for repairs it had entered into. It will just need to find 
and instruct  another contractor to do that. The current pandemic  is not a good reason for 
Admiral settling in cash  either.  Miss H will likely face similar delays and problems as it will in 
instructing contractors at this time.  So Im not going to amend my original award which 
requires Admiral to do further work at Miss Hs home. Of course if, following Miss Hs 
acceptance of my final decision,  she should  decide a cash settlement would be preferable  
and Admiral is willing to accommodate  this, then that would  be up to the parties  to discuss.
Ref: DRN86908535my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited  to:
Replace the front door window.
Provide Miss H with a copy of the electrical test certificate.
Remove the roof  insulation from the loft.
Reinstate the loft so its free from the smell of smoke, in doing  so review whether further 
treatment of timbers within the loft is required.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 February  2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8690853