K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms representative, a claims management  company  (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by a predecessor business of Sanlam Life & 
Pensions UK Limited.  
background
In 1987, Mr M was advised  to take out a savings plan with a £25 monthly contribution. In 
1991, he surrendered it. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In short,  
he said:
The long term savings  plan wasnt  a suitable  recommendation for Mr M. 
The way the policy worked  if surrendered in the short to medium term  he was 
likely to get back less than hed paid in. So, the charging structure  was unlikely to 
make the savings plan suitable. 
He was still young and his circumstances  were likely to change in the near future. So 
it was likely hed need access  to his funds. 
There was no recorded  objective so we dont know what he wanted. 
He doesnt  appear  to have taken any significant risk with his money prior to this, 
which suggests he was likely to have been  an unsophisticated investor. 
The evidence doesnt suggest that his attitude to risk (ATR) was considered. 
This investment exposed his money to the volatility  of going up or down without  a 
safety net or guarantee. 
Sanlam disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and asked  for an ombudsmans 
decision. It said itd be grateful  if the following points could be considered:  
Although Mr M was young,  it was recorded  that he was in full time employment. And 
given his type of job his income was likely to increase in future. 
He already owned his own property, and although his income  wasnt  high he had a 
reasonable amount of disposable income. 
He already held a £25 a month unit-trust  investment.  
Much  of the reason why the adjudicator upheld the complaint was because Mr Ms 
position was likely to change in future. But whilst he could expect some life changes 
there was nothing at the point of sale to suggest that his life would change  so much 
that he couldnt afford to pay £25 a month. 
We dont know why Mr M chose to surrender the plan when he did, and then 
complain 27 years later.  Any explanation he puts forward  now is likely to be 
unreliable unless its done with some evidence. 
Simply saying Mr M encashed  the plan and therefore its unsuitable is wrong. 
The adjudicator  seems to imply that the savings  carried a much higher risk that it did. 
It was a unit linked fund, suitable  for people with a balanced  ATR. Mr M was given all 
the relevant information and understood the risks involved.  
There was no requirement  to record his ATR, so just because it wasnt,  doesnt mean  
that it wasnt discussed. 
Despite regulations about attitude to risk and so on tightening up, this sale has to be 
looked at in light of the rules that applied at the time.  
Ref: DRN84316032As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Sanlam says, Im not satisfied 
that the recommendation was suitable for Mr M. 
I dont think it was so much that he couldnt afford to pay £25 a month  in the event  of his 
circumstances changing  although it was possible,  given that he was already contributing 
£25 a month towards a unit-linked  investment, that he didnt  need  another. But I think  its 
more likely that he ought not to have been  recommended a long term savings plan, because 
his circumstances  were likely  to change,  and as a result he was likely to need his money  
much sooner. I note he was in his early  20s,  single  with no dependents - I cant see any 
reason why he needed a long term savings plan at the point, as opposed to a shorter term 
savings plan. 
So, its possible Mr M encashed the plan because he needed the money and I think  on 
balance its more likely than not he did. I acknowledge  its also possible that the adviser  
might not have foreseen  at the point of sale  that Mr M wouldve needed this money and 
the reason for this. But even without  knowing the reason, I dont  think it was unforeseeable  
that hed need his money in the medium term. 
I note that the plan taken out in 1989  was surrendered  in 1991,  which supports the 
conclusion that the recommendation was unlikely to be appropriate, given that changes  to 
Mr Ms life were likely,  and so it was likely he would  for one reason or another   need the 
money sooner.
I agree  with the adjudicator that the plan was set up in such a way that if Mr M surrendered it 
within 10 years  or so, he could get back less than he put in. In other words  hed have to 
maintain it for the longer term to benefit  from it  which on balance  I dont think he wouldve 
wanted.  
I note there  was no requirement  to record ATR, and Sanlam says just because it wasnt, 
doesnt mean that it wasnt discussed.  Whilst I appreciate that, I note it also doesnt mean 
that it was discussed,  and Ive seen nothing that persuades me that it was. In other words, I 
cant safely say that it was discussed and taken into consideration. Im also not persuaded 
that Mr M was a balanced risk investor. Its possible that the investment element carried  
greater risk than Mr M was prepared to tolerate at that point in his life. 
I appreciate the documentation was reasonably clear, but I think  Mr M was likely to have  
placed greater  emphasis  on what he was (and probably wasnt) told by the adviser. Its 
possible he didnt know he was getting a long term savings plan and or the implications of 
this. 
I should make clear that Ive not judged  the sale in terms of the standards  that apply now, 
but in relation what they were at the point of sale. I appreciate that this was a sale long 
Ref: DRN84316033before the regulations that apply now existed and Ive taken that in to account. Having done 
so, I still dont think this recommendation was right for Mr M because  Im not satisfied that he 
had a need for a long term savings plan.   
Im mindful there are alternative ways  of calculating redress  and there are arguments  for and 
against each of those alternatives. I tend to agree that theres no set method  of redress  in 
this type of case.
I concede I dont think theres any way of knowing, with any degree of certainty, what Mr M 
would have done in the alternative,  if hed been advised properly. Given  the lack of evidence 
from the point of sale and the passage of time I think it would  be almost impossible to know.
So, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, in the circumstances I think  the 
following redress proposed by the adjudicator is broadly fair and reasonable. 
In order to compensate  Mr M fairly, Sanlam should  pay him compensation of D + E where:
A = the original  premiums invested, less any amounts paid out by way of withdrawals, 
distributions of capital or before-tax income  before date of encashment;
B = a return on the premiums invested  from time to time of A by way of capital growth  
equivalent to the Bank  of England base rate compounded yearly from the date each 
premiums was paid to the date of encashment;
C = the surrender value of the actual investment at the date of encashment;
D = A + B - C, representing the investment loss to the date of encashment, interest  on D 
from date of encashment  to the date of payment.
E = interest on D from date of encashment to the date of payment. 
Interest at E is to be at 8% per year gross simple.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should calculate  and pay Mr M redress  as set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8431603