K821x#15Complaint
Mr D says MYJAR Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about seven loans MYJAR  provided to Mr D between May 2015  and 
January 2018  with various different repayment terms. Mr Ds borrowing history  is as follows:
Loan Number Date Taken Principal Amount Date Repaid Number of 
repayment instalments (in months)
Loan 1 10/05/15 £100.00 29/05/15 1
Loan 2 07/07/15 £100.00 31/07/15 1
Loan 3 13/04/16 £300.00 28/10/16 6
Loan 4 07/11/16 £300.00 27/01/17 3
Loan 5 27/01/17 £1,000.00 13/07/17 6
Loan 6 27/07/17 £1,000.00 18/01/18 6
Loan 7 29/01/18 £1,350.00 28/02/19 12
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ds complaint in part and thought that loan 7 shouldnt  have been 
given. MYJAR disagreed  and the complaint was passed to me. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN80373742refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to do so without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Our adjudicator did not think that MYJAR  did anything wrong when it lent loans  1- 6 and that 
proportionate checks were carried out. Taking everything into consideration though  I am not 
persuaded that proportionate checks were  carried out for loan 5 and 6. I say this because  
even though there was a gap in approved  loans  two applications were rejected between  loan 
2 and 3. So I think that by loan 5 there was a chain of borrowing which  should  really have 
provoked further checks before the lending  was granted.  That said had these proportionate  
checks been carried out I dont think that they wouldve shown anything that shouldve 
prompted MYJAR to believe that these loans were  not sustainable. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history  with Mr D, with a view to seeing 
if there was a point  at which  MYJAR  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR  should  have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached at loan 
7 I say this because:
At this point MYJAR  ought to have realised Mr D was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably. Mr D had been indebted to MYJAR for over 18 months. So 
MYJAR ought to have  realised  it was more likely than not Mr D was having to borrow 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ds indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Ds first loan was for £100 and loan 7 was for £1350.  At this point MYJAR ought 
to have known  that Mr D was not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need.  
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed MYJAR.  Loan 7 was 
taken out 32 months after Mr Ds first. And it was for a much  larger  amount. Mr D had 
Ref: DRN80373743paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over an 
extended period.
I note MYJARs comments that it believed  that proportionate checks  were carried out 
on this loan. But as explained above MYJAR also needed to consider when it lent 
whether it was likely  that Mr D would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable 
fashion. Given the length of time Mr D had been borrowing from MYJAR by this loan I 
think it should really  have been  clear  that Mr D was struggling  and was borrowing to 
repay existing loans.
I think that Mr D lost out because MYJAR  provided loan 7 because.
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness  by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Mr D borrowed by the time loan 7 was granted  was 
likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit 
and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 7 and MYJAR should put things right.
Putting things  right  what  MYJAR  needs to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr D paid on loan 7 and pay interest  of 8% simple  a 
year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid (if they 
were) to the date of settlement;
all entries  about loan 7 should  be removed from Mr Ds credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr D a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. MYJAR Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8037374