K821x#15complaint
Mrs D says MBNA Limited mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs D took out in 1999. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. MBNA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint  because  I dont  think MBNA gave Mrs D clear 
enough information about the policy. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ds PPI policy had a clause that meant that at retirement, a customer would no longer 
be entitled to make a claim for certain  parts of the PPI cover.  I think  that this wouldve 
mattered to Mrs D because  at the time she applied for her credit card, she was 58 years  old 
 and had a retirement age of 60  so would only be able to benefit from the policy  for a 
limited time. Had this been  made  clear  in her application, I dont think that she wouldve 
chosen to take out the PPI. So, I think Mrs D has lost out because  of what MBNA did wrong. 
Ive taken into account MBNAs comments, including what  it said about  the cost of the policy  
changing after Mrs D reached 60 years of age to reflect the change in cover available. But I 
dont think this matters  as this also wasnt made clear on Mrs Ds application form. So, I still 
think I should uphold  the complaint.
putting things right
MBNA should put Mrs D in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much  Mrs D would  have  owed  when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Mrs D owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, MBNA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN82596982B.MBNA should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Mrs D would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  MBNA works out what Mrs D would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mrs D paid more than enough to clear her balance,  MBNA should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mrs D paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs D wouldve owed MBNA something  on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.MBNA should tell Mrs D what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give Mrs D a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
MBNA Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8259698