K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  sold to 
Mr and Mrs P with a mortgage  in 1987. They said Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B) mis-sold this 
cover to them.
After the initial mortgage  sale, the PPI was adjusted twice more to reflect extra  borrowing  Mr 
and Mrs P took out. 
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in June 2019,  setting  out why I thought 
the complaint  should be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further submissions 
or information to me within one month. 
my findings
Mr and Mrs P agreed with my findings, but B&B didnt. So Ive reconsidered all the available  
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
The crux of this complaint is how the PPI was described in the mortgage application Mr and 
Mrs P were  asked to complete and sign. In my provisional decision I said the section  about  
PPI wasnt clear enough. 
I said the form had an assumption that the consumers would buy the PPI cover and from the 
way the form was set out, I don't think it would've  been clear enough that Mr and Mrs P 
didn't need  to take out the PPI if they didnt want to. 
I also noted there were  other sections on the form about other types  of insurance. But these 
sections appeared  to provide much  clearer yes or no choices about buying  them.  No such 
option was available for the PPI. And I still cant see any reason why this would be the case 
other than to put forward the PPI cover  as something the consumers ought to buy.
For example, the application form directed Mr and Mrs P to enter the amount of PPI cover 
they wanted to have  without first giving them a choice. To decline PPI they needed to 
specifically say so by putting  an x into a box related  to something quite separate i.e. the 
monthly PPI premium. Much  further  down the form also said "The society will arrange for the 
property and payment  protection  insurance  to be effected unless instructed otherwise. 
None of this is particularly clear and this doesnt  look to me like a choice. In short, what this 
means is that the PPI will be added  - unless its specifically de-selected  by the applicant(s).
Mr and Mrs P took out two further advances on their mortgage in the subsequent months / 
years but of course  by the time of these  events, they would have already been under the 
impression that PPI with their mortgage was required, rather than optional. 
In replying to my provisional  decision, B&B hasnt really said anything  different or provided 
any new information. It has merely repeated that it thought the choice was clear enough. 
I disagree. 
Ref: DRN80098982Those selling  these types of policy had a duty to demonstrate that consumers had a choice 
and I dont think B&B did this. I believe Mr and Mrs P would have thought  the PPI was 
something he needed to have, so Im therefore upholding their complaint  in full.
what B&B should  do to put matters right 
B&B should  put Mr and Mrs P in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out PPI. It 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year before April 1993  and 8% after that .
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  B&B can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr and Mrs P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and I direct Bradford & Bingley plc to pay the 
compensation as outlined  above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80098983summary  provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a 
mortgage in 1987. The PPI was adjusted twice more to reflect extra  borrowing Mr and Mrs P took out. 
They said Bradford & Bingley plc (B&B) mis-sold this cover to them.
background
Im really  sorry this complaint has been with us for so long.
There are a few reasons for this but a major  one is that a legal case has affected many  complaints 
like the one Mr and Mrs P have asked us to look at. This has taken  a while to go through the courts 
but I can now issue a decision.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at this case a while  ago and said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  
They wrote  to Mr and Mrs P with this view but Mr and Mrs P didnt  agree with this. They  asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint and issue a final decision.
That was back in 2015 and Im really sorry theyve had to wait for such  a long time for the legal case  
to end and the Financial Conduct Authority to issue  new guidance.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having looked very carefully and thoroughly over all the documents and information we have from 
the sale,  Im intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint in full. But Im giving the parties a final 
opportunity to tell me about  anything they think Ive missed  or anything else they think I ought to 
consider.
It seems Mr and Mrs P took a mortgage out with B&B back in April 1987. At the same meeting  they 
were sold a PPI policy which only covered Mr P. Mrs P wasnt  covered. We know this because we still 
have the original  application  form where  Mr and Mrs P were asked about having PPI with their new 
mortgage.
B&B says Mr and Mrs P chose the PPI and it was sold to them properly, but Im afraid  with the 
information I currently have, I dont agree with this. 
This is because the relevant section on the mortgage application form about the PPI choices  doesnt 
appear to me to be clear  enough. Mr and Mrs P say, for example, that they were made  to feel the PPI 
was a compulsory part of their mortgage being granted. Theyve been very consistent about that. And 
I can understand why they thought  this.
The relevant section on the mortgage application  form is headed Payment  Protection Plan. In my 
view, theres a clear assumption at this point that the consumers will buy the PPI cover  and from the 
way the form is set out, I don't think it would've been clear  enough that Mr and Mrs P didn't need to 
take out the PPI. The choice simply  wasnt made clear.
I say this because I note there are other sections on the form about  other types of insurance. But 
these sections  appear to provide much clearer yes or no choices  about buying them.  No such option 
was available for the PPI. And I cant see any reason why this would be the case  other than to put 
forward the PPI cover as something the consumers  ought to buy.
Ref: DRN80098984For example, the application form directs Mr and Mrs P to enter the amount of PPI cover they want to 
have without first giving  them a choice. To decline  PPI they would  need to specifically say so by 
putting an x into a box related to the monthly PPI premium. Much further down  the form I note it says 
"The society will arrange for the property and payment protection insurance to be effected unless  
instructed otherwise.  
None of this is particularly clear  and this doesnt look to me like a choice. In short,  what this means  is 
that the PPI will be added - unless its specifically de-selected by the applicant(s). I dont  think  this is 
fair and I can therefore understand why Mr and Mrs P would have thought  they had to buy the policy. 
Mr and Mrs P took out two further advances  on their mortgage  in the subsequent  months / years. 
The PPI cover  was increased to reflect this additional  borrowing.  Of course by the time of these 
events, as Ive explained above, Mr and Mrs P would  have already been under  the impression that 
PPI with their mortgage was required, rather than optional. 
Looking at the first further advance  application form, the Payment Protection Insurance  part is 
identical to their original  application from a few months earlier, the one Ive described above.  But I 
note this section hasnt been  completed fully  a fundamental error and shortfall, in my view. I can 
only see there  are some  handwritten workings  out which dont really explain much. In summary, this 
form indicates to me that no proper consent for PPI was obtained at all. And the fact both Mr and Mrs 
P signed this further advance form means nothing in as much as it relates to PPI; they signed it 
simply because they were  required to in order to get their new loan released.
I see a letter was sent out to Mr and Mrs P about this first further advance, later in 1987. In my view, 
theres nothing in that letter  that would  make Mr and Mrs P think differently about  the optional nature 
of the PPI. 
So I dont think B&B properly got consent for this mortgage PPI either.
This then takes us to the second further advance, in 1991. The process  had changed  somewhat  by 
this time in that a separate PPI form was required, in addition to the loan application  form. 
But as Ive said,  I look at these events from the perspective  of Mr and Mrs P. By this time B&B had 
been insufficiently clear  with them  twice - that PPI was an optional product.  So looking at the third 
PPI document they were asked to complete, they would have  probably thought they would need to 
buy PPI again.
The form on this occasion was better,  but still not entirely  clear. It gave just two options, but these 
both involved having PPI. I cant  see anything  where  Mr and Mrs P were  given a choice or told that 
the PPI cover was optional.  
Thinking about everything we know about Mr and Mrs P and what  weve been told about this case, I 
dont think they would have  understood they had a choice. Those selling this type of PPI had a duty to 
make these things clear and tell consumers they didnt need to buy it if they didnt want  to. 
I dont think the optionality of the PPI was made clear on any of the three occasions. So Im currently 
intending to uphold the complaint.
what B&B should do to put matters  right 
B&B should put Mr and Mrs P in the position  theyd  be in now if they hadnt taken  out PPI. It should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 15% a year before April 1993  and 8% after that .
Ref: DRN80098985If Mr or Mrs P made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, B&B can take off what they got for 
the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  B&B to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr and Mrs P a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im intending  to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  in full and direct 
Bradford & Bingley  plc to pay them all the compensation as Ive outlined above.
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 11 
July 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Ref: DRN8009898