K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold him a single premium payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy when he took out a personal loan in 1996.
background
As this was a single premium policy, Mr W borrowed extra on top of his 60-month loan to 
pay for the PPI. Lloyds  added interest to the extra borrowing.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr W disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy was sold over 20 years  ago. Lloyds doesnt have a lot of information from that 
time. Thats understandable  as its not required  to keep records  indefinitely. From the 
information Ive seen, it appears  the policy was sold in a branch meeting although I cant  
know for sure what was said. To help me decide what  happened, Ive looked  at the 
information Mr W and Lloyds have  sent me. And Ive considered a sample loan agreement 
provided by Lloyds. I think that what was discussed during that meeting probably followed 
whats on the agreement.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr W would have known he had a choice about 
buying PPI. I can see from the sample loan agreement that there were two equally  
prominent boxes   one to mark yes if he wanted  PPI and another  to mark no if he didnt. 
The PPIs  referred to as optional  throughout  the loan agreement. And the section about  
PPIs just above the signature box. So I think Mr W would have seen this when he signed  
the form. I think the details were  probably  filled in following  a discussion between Mr W and 
the adviser about his needs.  
I appreciate that Mr W might not remember any of this now. But at the time, I think  he 
probably knew he was buying PPI as a separate product to the loan and I think it would 
have been clear to him that he had a choice about  taking  it out.
 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr W. So it had to look into whether the policy it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr Ws needs. I dont know if Lloyds did that but, from 
Mr Ws circumstances at the time and the policy terms  that likely applied,  I think  it probably  
was suitable for him. 
I say the terms that likely applied because, again  given how long ago the policy was sold,  
Lloyds no longer holds a copy  of the applicable  policy terms. Its provided us instead  with a 
copy of its terms  from a few months  later in 1996. Ideally, wed have the applicable policy 
terms but, in their absence, I think its fair for me to assess the complaint based on the 
terms provided. Having  done  so, I believe:
Ref: DRN84049692Mr W was eligible  for the policy. And I dont  think hed have been significantly 
affected by any of the main things the policy limited cover for or excluded. Recently 
he says he was self-employed and would have found it more  difficult to claim on the 
policy as a result. But, having  checked the policy terms available,  I dont  think  hed 
have found it more difficult.  
Mr W says he wasnt  entitled to enhanced sick pay or redundancy pay and that he 
had no other means of keeping up with his loan repayments if he wasnt working. 
On the other hand, the policy benefits  would potentially have paid out up until the 
end of the loan for disability claims. And each unemployment  claim could  have 
lasted for up to 12 months. Overall, I think the PPI offered him worthwhile protection.
If the loan had been repaid early,  Mr W wouldnt have received a proportional refund 
of the premium hed paid for the policy. So this made it relatively inflexible. I cant be 
sure that Lloyds considered this or explained the situation clearly to Mr W. But Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that it was particularly likely at the time that hed repay the 
loan early or that he intended to do so. So I dont think this inflexibility made  the 
policy unsuitable for him.
Lloyds also needed  to give Mr W enough information for him to decide if the policy was 
suitable. From the sample loan agreement Id say its likely the information  Lloyds gave 
Mr W about the PPI  and especially concerning the interest hed have to pay on the PPI 
premium  wasnt as clear as it should  have been.  But Ive found, on balance,  that he chose 
to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of cover.  And I dont think 
the amount of interest,  at around £88, was enough  to put him off. For the same reasons 
that I dont  think the policy  was unsuitable  for him, I dont think  better information would 
have changed  his mind about  buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr Ws lost out because  of how Lloyds sold him 
the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2018.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8404969