K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that a predecessor company of ReAssure Limited  mis-sold  him a Life 
Cover Plan and an Emergency Cash Cover & Income Replacement  Cover Plan. 
All references to ReAssure include  its predecessor  business. 
background
In June 2001 Mr B was contacted by a ReAssure sales  agent  at his home. As a result of the 
meeting he applied for a Life Cover Plan (life plan). He applied for two units of cover which 
entitled him to a lump sum of £10,000 in the event he died or was diagnosed with a terminal  
illness before he turned  65. It also offered an annual benefit  to his spouse  and any 
dependants if an insured  event occurred during the policy term. 
In September  2004 Mr B was contacted  again by a ReAssure agent. On this occasion he 
applied for an Emergency  Cash Cover & Income Replacement Cover plan (cash plan). The 
Emergency Cash cover  provided benefit  in the event he suffered an accidental  bodily injury; 
was diagnosed with a serious illness; or died during the policy term. The income 
replacement cover provided a monthly benefit  in the event he was unable  to work for more  
than nine weeks due to an accident  or illness. 
Mr B complained, via a representative who Ill call C, that hed been mis-sold the policies. 
C argued that Mr B was misled about  how much cover the policies provided  it said he 
believed he had £50,000 of life cover. He also believed hed been sold whole of life cover.
ReAssure looked  into Mr Bs complaint but didnt  find any problems with the way the policies 
had been sold.  It explained that the policies had been sold on a non-advised basis. This 
meant the sales agent had only provide Mr B with information about the policies, and hed 
chosen the cover he felt was suitable for his needs.  
Mr B disagreed and referred his complaint to our service for consideration. C argued that 
Mr B was led to believe he was being  given  financial advice to take out the policies. It noted 
that Mr B hadnt approached ReAssure for cover. The sales agent had called at his home. C 
argued the policies werent suitable for Mr Bs circumstances as the life plan didnt provide 
sufficient cover, and the cash plan was expensive and unnecessary. C also suggested Mr B 
had been sold an earlier cash plan in 2001, which was later upgrade in 2004. It suggested 
Mr B wasnt  advised that by doing so he lost the opportunity to reclaim his premiums  on the 
original policy. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  but didnt uphold it. He was satisfied the policies 
were sold on a non-advised  basis. As such he explained that it was for Mr B to satisfy 
himself that the policies  were suitable  for his needs. 
C disagreed on Mr Bs behalf. It maintains  that Mr B was incorrectly  advised to take out the 
policies. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me to reach a decision. 
Before I could reach a decision, I asked C for Mr Bs recollection of events  from the time of 
the sale, and specifically what led him to believe he was being given advice. C responded 
explaining that they disagreed with the investigators conclusion  that because  there  was 
Ref: DRN86961882nothing to show advice  was given this meant the sale was non-advised. It said it was Mr Bs 
case that recommendations were made  during the conversation.  It said that Mr B was not 
well versed  in financial matters and so wouldnt expect a lay person to sell a complicated 
financial product.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for much the same reason as the investigator.  I realise that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr B and C, so Id like to explain how Ive reached  this conclusion. 
The main  issue for me to decide in this case is whether advice was given when the policies  
were sold in 2001 and 2004.  This is because  how the policy was sold determines what  the 
selling agents  role and responsibilities were at the time. Id only be able to consider if the 
policies were suitable for Mr Bs needs if I was persuaded that ReAssures agents had 
provided advice  to Mr B regarding their suitability. Otherwise the sales agents responsibility 
only extended to ensuring Mr B was provided  with information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading about the cover available. 
While Mr B has suggested that advice was given, ReAssure has said the policies were sold 
on a non-advised  basis.  As the two parties  to the complaint disagree, and as theres no clear  
documentary evidence  to prove either way, I have to consider the circumstances as a whole 
to decide what  I think was most likely  to have happened.
I understand that the sales took place in Mr Bs home  during  an unarranged meeting with a 
sales agent. But this isnt enough for me to conclude that advice was given. For me to 
decide that advice was given Id need to be satisfied that the selling agent had assessed 
Mr Bs needs and then given a recommendation tailored to those  needs.  Id also expect  to 
see evidence that the selling agent  had explained  why the particular policy would meet  
Mr Bs demands and needs. Theres nothing within the available sales  documentation  to 
indicate that Mr Bs needs were assessed  or that a recommendation was given. 
In some cases, even  where a selling agent  isnt regulated to give advice they can 
inadvertently stray into making a recommendation by answering certain questions,  or 
offering an opinion about the suitability of the policy on offer. But Ive seen no evidence of 
that in this case. When I asked for Mr Bs recollection of events from the time of the sale, 
C explained where the sale had taken place and the fact that Mr B assumed advice wouldve 
been given. This isnt enough to persuade me that advice actually was given.  
Additionally, when Ive reviewed the available policy documentation I note it implies that it 
was for Mr B to check if the cover was right for him. In the terms and conditions  for the cash  
plan it explains These are the Terms and Conditions  of the Policy that you haveIf you do 
not understand any part, please contact our Head Office. It also notes Your application 
form shows which type of cover you have chosen. This suggests that Mr B chose the level 
of cover he wanted, rather than being advised  what cover would best suit his needs. Similar 
statements are contained within  the terms and conditions for the life plan. 
On the basis of the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr B was given advice to take 
out the policies, and so Im satisfied the sales were most likely non-advised. As such, 
ReAssure isnt responsible for ensuring  the policies best suited his needs at the time. But it 
Ref: DRN86961883is responsible for ensuring Mr B was eligible  to take out the cover and that he was provided 
with sufficient information to make  an informed decision about the cover he was selecting. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Mr B wasnt eligible  to claim benefits under either policy, 
and as hes still maintaining his premiums  hed been  entitled  to claim under either policy  
should an insured event  occur. 
ReAssure has been able to demonstrate that it wrote to Mr B in October 2004, confirming 
the cover  hed selected to purchase, enclosing the policy terms and conditions and key 
features document, and explaining  his right to cancel the policy  within the cooling off period 
without incurring any costs. Im satisfied these  documents were all clear  about the cover on 
offer and how it worked. 
ReAssure hasnt been able to provide the documentation that was sent to Mr B when the life 
plan was sold. But I dont  find this unusual as the policy was sold nearly 18 years  ago. But I 
have noted that in completing the application Mr B had selected the number of units he 
wanted. The policy terms and conditions explained  how units  worked, and how they 
determined the amount  of benefit that would be paid. So I think  its likely Mr B would have 
had sight of the policy documentation  at the time he applied  for cover.  I can also see that 
Mr B contacted ReAssure  in 2014 to request replacement policy  documents.  At this time he 
was provided with a Plan Certificate and a copy of the terms and conditions. I cant see he 
questioned these at the time. Had the policy not offered the cover Mr B expected  Id have 
expected to see him question it at this time. 
Finally while  C has suggested that Mr B had taken out an Emergency Cash and Income 
Replacement Cover plan in 2001  that was replaced in 2004, Ive seen no evidence  that this 
was the case.  Ive been provided  with no evidence that an earlier policy  existed, and I note 
on the application that was completed  in 2004 Mr B ticked a box confirming this policy does 
not replace any existing  policy.
In summary,  having carefully considered all the available evidence,  Im not persuaded that 
Mr B was advised to take out the life plan and cash plan.  So I havent considered whether 
they were the most suitable  policies  for his needs. From the evidence I have available, Im 
not persuaded that ReAssure failed  in its duty to provide Mr B with sufficient information 
about the policies to make a decision on whether to take them  out. So I cant fairly say the 
policies were mis-sold to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Lisa De Noronha
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8696188