K821x#15complaint
Mr O complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited didnt offer a fair market  value  when 
he made a theft claim under his motorcycle  insurance policy.  
background
Mr Os motorbike was stolen in January 2018  and he made a claim to his insurer,  MCE. 
In April 2018 MCE offered  to settle Mr Os claim by paying him a market value of £1,125. 
Mr O made  a separate complaint  about  the delay he says MCE caused. So this doesnt form 
part of my decision. 
Mr O didnt accept MCEs offer as he believed  the valuation was too low. He asked us to 
look at his complaint.  
Our adjudicator thought MCE hadnt  reached its valuation reasonably. It relied on one motor 
trade guide. MCE said the other  guide it usually looked at didnt provide a valuation for 
Mr Os motorbike. The adjudicator thought  MCE should have  carried out further  research to 
benchmark the valuation guide  it relied  on. The adjudicator was able to find another motor 
trade guide that provided a valuation.  This was much higher at £2,270. She felt that in this 
case  as the guide shed  looked at closely matched examples of similar bikes  for sale  that 
it was fairer for MCE to pay the higher valuation. And she thought MCE should pay interest  
at 8% simple interest a year on the difference between  the settlement it offered and the 
higher valuation from the date of offer to the date it pays Mr O. 
Mr O accepted the adjudicators view. MCE didnt agree and would like an ombudsman  to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr Os policy  with MCE says the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is as follows:
The cost of replacing  your motorcycle with one of the same make,  model, age, type 
and condition will normally be determined by a number of factors, including  but not 
limited to valuations  provided  by published  buyers guides  available in the market 
place, independent engineers reports, your estimate of value, the vehicle service 
history, the number  of keys available for the vehicle,  whether the V5 document  is up 
to date, and whether there is a current MOT certificate. Where modifications  have 
been made, we will only pay the cost of replacing parts  or equipment  needed for your 
motorcycle to meet the manufacturers standard specification.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We find the main  motor trade 
guides are generally  a reliable way to decide a value for a vehicle. 
Ref: DRN80381842They provide  valuations based  on the likely selling prices for the make,  model, age, 
condition and mileage  of a vehicle for the month  of loss. We find its fair to look at all of the 
available guides  rather than just one as they are average values and can vary. 
The motor  trade guides  are aimed at the mainstream motor trade and so the published and 
online guides focus on the volume market. For this reason, the trade  guides,  as a rule, dont  
value vehicles over 20 years old. However, for some  types  of vehicles this cut-off point  can 
be earlier. Mr Os motorbike was 20 years old. 
In this case, MCE looked at two of the available four main motor trade guides but could only 
find a valuation under  one of them. This came  to £1,125. 
Where there is only one valuation available, we think the fairer thing to do is to consider 
other sources of information. These might include testimony from dealers, specialist auction 
results or valuations, and/or specialist publications  or websites. And as MCEs policy  says,  it 
doesnt limit its valuation to the buyer  guides  alone. But MCE didnt consider any other 
sources. 
We were able to find another of the main motor trade guides which gave a valuation  of 
£2,270. But two out of the four available didnt.  MCE believes we should use the average 
valuation of the two available. It says this is the approach  weve taken in the past. 
However, where one of the guides  is out of kilter with others, we disregard it. And while there  
are only two guides to compare  against, the motor trade valuation we obtained  of £2,270  is 
much closer  to the examples of similar motorbikes for sale.  So I think  its fair and reasonable 
to disregard the valuation of £1,125 in this case. I therefore dont think its fair to use the 
average of both guides here. We look at each  case on its own merits to decide whats fair 
and reasonable.  
I understand MCE needs to ask Mr O for additional  documents in order  to validate  his claim. 
Subject to that  I think MCE should  increase the total loss settlement to £2,270.  It should  
pay interest at 8% simple  interest a year from the date of the original offer to the date it pays 
Mr O. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. 
Subject to its remaining requirements  to settle the claim, I require MCE Insurance Company 
Limited to increase the total loss settlement to £2,270. MCE should pay interest on the 
difference between  the original offer and the £2,270  from the date of the original offer and 
the date it pays  Mr O. 
The interest rate applied  should be 8% simple  interest a year.  
If MCE Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs 
to withhold income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN80381843Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8038184