K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained about Bank  of Ireland  (UK) Plc (BOI) as she believes it mis-sold her a 
home insurance policy when she visited in 2015 around the time her previous policy  was due 
to renew.
background
In March 2015 Mrs S discussed her home insurance  with an advisor whilst visiting  her bank 
branch. She showed the advisor her existing  policy and says the advisor took the paperwork 
away and came back with an alternate cheaper policy, which the advisor  said gave her the 
same cover (but for a lower price). Mrs S agreed  the policy, it was put in place and it 
renewed annually  and automatically from that point forwards.
In September  2018 Mrs S had cause  to make a claim on the policy. She was unhappy  with 
the insurers response to the claim.  Mrs S reviewed her cover and found the cover in place 
wasnt like that shed  had in 2014. She felt the differences in cover  had led to the loss shed 
suffered due to her insurers response  to the claim  if the policy  had been like shed had 
before, she wouldnt  have suffered such a loss. She complained to BOI.
Mrs S was unhappy with the response  she received when she complained in branch, so she 
wrote to BOI. It acknowledged her complaint in writing on 22 October 2018. In November it 
asked for some further information. In December  BOI wrote to Mrs S again  and said it 
couldnt provide  a final response within the eight-week timeframe which had begun in 
October. It said she could  complain to this service.  Mrs S did so.
BOI provided some information to our investigator. It said there  was no data available  from 
the time of the sale but, at that time, there was a process in place whereby advisors would 
discuss new policies with the prospective  policyholder and go through  a series of questions 
and answers. BOI also felt it was relevant that the policy had renewed on several  occasions  
since the sale in 2015.  
Our investigator said that he couldnt  be satisfied that BOI had done anything wrong during 
the sale. But initially he felt it should  pay £50 compensation for not having provided a final 
response within the set deadline. However,  upon  review, he explained that he wouldnt 
expect BOI to pay compensation as it had told Mrs S she could complain to us. 
Mrs S said she was upset and felt insulted.  She explained that, to her, it seemed as though 
wed accepted  BOIs  word  of what had happened, over her own. The complaint was passed 
to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, with regret for any upset 
this causes Mrs S, Im not minded to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that not getting  a sufficient settlement from the insurer  was upsetting for Mrs S. 
And I can see why she thinks BOI is responsible for that. I dont doubt her account of events, 
and that being the case, its clear  she felt she could trust BOIs word  that the policy was like 
the one she had before, only cheaper. 
Ref: DRN83939002But BOI says that the sale cant have happened in the way Mrs S recalls it happening.  And 
whilst I have no reason to doubt Mrs Ss word, I have no reason to doubt BOIs  either.  
Both scenarios cant be right. One party must  be wrong in some  way or another.  For 
example, the bank  advisor may have erred, and not followed protocol for some reason. Or 
Mrs S might have remembered things incorrectly. But I have no way to know what actually 
occurred, or what is most likely to have  happened. 
Being able to know what  most likely happened is important because I can only make  a 
finding against a financial business if Im satisfied it most likely failed a policyholder  or 
prospective policyholder  in some way. I cant make an award against it just because it may 
have erred, or because a policyholder tells me this is what happened.  Thats not to say that 
here I believe BOI more  than I believe Mrs S, but rather I cant place more weight on what 
Mrs S has said than what BOI has. Therefore, I cant reasonably  conclude  that BOI most 
likely failed  Mrs S.
I appreciate that BOIs complaints procedure was slow and that a final response wasnt  
provided. That is far from ideal, but it isnt something I award compensation for. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8393900