K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that he was badly  advised  by Admiral Wealth Management  Limited in 1991 
to transfer out of his former  employers  defined benefit (DB) pension  scheme  into a personal 
pension plan.
background
I issued my provisional decision on the merits of this complaint on 6 September 2019.  A 
copy of that decision  is attached and forms part of this final decision.
Admirals response made some comments on my earlier jurisdiction decision, in which I 
concluded Mr Ps complaint had been brought within the six- and three-year time limits  under 
DISP 2.8.2(2). 
Admiral said that it would not be commenting on the provisional decision on the merits of the 
complaint. But it wanted  sight of any comments or evidence from Mr P before any final 
decision is made. It felt that the ombudsman service had done the parties to the complaint a 
complete disservice  in the way this complaint  has been handled.
Mr P responded to the provisional decision on 28 September 2019. In summary his 
comments were:
Admiral  had been wrong to class him as an insistent client, especially as hed 
previously bought  life insurance on its expert  advice. He was entitled to receive  such 
advice on every transaction on which Admiral received commission.
My provisional  decision  had confirmed  the Optional Compliance Test (OCT)  was 
wrongly employed by Admiral during  the Pensions  Review. This meant Admiral had 
avoided answering critical questions about  the sale.
Admiral  failed to give him suitable  advice. It didnt discuss  in detail the significant 
advantages of a guaranteed pension with added benefits, which  he would have given  
serious consideration.
After  the significant  time and stress  of dealing  with the complaint he was hoping  for a 
true and fair decision, and that the Ombudsman  Service continues to help protect  the 
general public against the mis selling of pensions.
In view of Admirals request to see these comments in their entirety, Im attaching  a copy  to 
this final decision.  Im conscious that Mr P has not made the same  request but in the interest  
of fairness Im also extending the same  courtesy in respect of Admirals  comments.  However 
Im not satisfied that either partys  submissions include evidence  or arguments on which I 
need to obtain the others further comment first, in order to reach  a final decision. 
Both parties  have alluded  to the time it has taken to reach this final stage of the complaint, 
which Im acutely aware of and understand. Both parties have  had an equal opportunity to 
comment on the provisional decision itself, and had I been persuaded to reach  different  
findings I would be making a further  provisional  decision. However I dont think  anything  
either party has said will make a difference  to my provisional decision, and I will explain why 
below. For that reason  I do not consider it would serve any purpose to allow further time for 
each party to respond to the others comments.
This has been a long-running  dispute  as the ombudsman services jurisdiction has been 
contested throughout the complaint. Detailed arguments were advanced by Admiral  which  
required thorough  consideration.  Unfortunately on several occasions  the time involved to do 
Ref: DRN80333842this, combined with staff moves, necessitated  a change of ombudsman. I acknowledge the 
frustration that this has caused, but Im also satisfied  that Ive now been  able to carry out the 
thorough investigation into both the jurisdiction and merits  of the complaint, which both Mr P 
and Admiral were entitled to receive. 
my findings
My findings  on jurisdiction were issued  separately to the attached provisional decision on the 
merits of the complaint. 
Its clear from what Admiral says in response to the provisional merits decision  that it 
continues to disagree with my approach  on jurisdiction. It describes that approach as 
fundamentally flawed but, after also acknowledging that Im not minded to uphold the 
complaint on its merits, Admiral says So be it.
As an aside  Admiral has cited what it says is but one example of why it thinks the 
jurisdiction decision was flawed. Im not going to rehearse the previous jurisdiction 
arguments in detail in this decision  on the merits of the complaint. To be clear,  my 
conclusion that Mr Ps complaint was brought within the six- and three-year time limits hasnt 
changed. However in response to what Admiral has said I would simply say that I dont 
agree with the way it has characterised the comments I made  in my jurisdiction  decision.  I 
consider its clear from the explanation  I gave  in the jurisdiction decision why Mr Ps 
complaint was brought to this service in time.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments from the outset to decide whats  
fair and reasonable as to the merits of this complaint. In particular Ive taken into account  the 
further points  Mr P has made since the provisional decision. 
My provisional decision agreed  with Mr P that Admiral  had wrongly classed him as an 
insistent client (to use Admirals terminology,  but effectively that meant  an execution-only 
client as I explained). I also agreed that Admiral hadnt dealt  with his case  correctly in the 
Pensions Review. But whilst this meant that I wouldnt be dismissing Mr Ps complaint and 
would go on to look at the merits, that alone didnt give a reason for the complaint to be 
upheld.
I dont agree Admiral  has escaped scrutiny as a result of carrying out the Pensions Review  
wrongly, in the way Mr P suggests.  The advice  it gave  (or should have given)  to Mr P is 
under scrutiny as a result of my considering  the merits of that advice. And I didnt dispute in 
my provisional decision that Admiral  failed to give Mr P suitable advice, given that there  was 
an absence of advice  on the merits of transferring from the DB scheme  itself.  
However an absence  of advice again isnt sufficient grounds for me to uphold  the complaint. 
The issue  here is a matter of causation; in other words what  I consider Mr P would likely 
have done had he received suitable advice. I acknowledge Mr P has indicated he would 
have given serious consideration to the significant advantages of a guaranteed pension with 
added benefits,  had this been highlighted by the adviser. I agree those advantages should 
have been pointed out to him, but equally there  were potentially advantages of transferring if 
its fairly viewed in the economic climate  of 1991,  rather  than today.
My provisional decision explains why I considered Mr P could have been suitably advised to 
transfer from his DB scheme in 1991  bearing in mind,  amongst other  things:
-his medium attitude to risk; 
Ref: DRN80333843-his capacity to take some risk, given the probability of building  up additional  pension  
provision in future at his age;
-a correctly calculated  critical yield for the transfer which was at the low end of the 
range of likely  future investment returns (and I should point out that the calculation 
takes into account added benefits of a spouses pension  and annual  increases);
-the likelihood of exceeding  the critical yield over the significant term to Mr Ps 
retirement; 
-his chosen  fund (with-profits) being able to support those returns  but with the 
protection of a smoothing mechanism and underlying guarantees.
I understand Mr Ps concern that he might still have rejected  the suitable advice I consider 
he could have been given, if the guarantees of the DB scheme weighed  most on his mind. I 
agree its certainly  possible that he might have got cold feet about  transferring, but I dont 
think I can fairly conclude this would have been the most likely outcome on the balance  of 
probabilities. 
I have to take into account  that Mr P went to Admiral for the benefit  of its advice, having 
already expressed  an interest in transferring from his DB scheme.  In other  words,  the idea of 
transferring wasnt initially  instigated by Admiral. I think its most likely Mr P would have 
followed suitable advice  when Admiral gave it to him, as he in fact did in terms of the 
personal pension  provider it recommended. And that advice  would likely  have  been  to 
transfer. As I said in my provisional decision, I think that the with-profits fund (with  its own 
guarantees) mitigated  some of the risks of the loss of guarantees from the DB scheme. 
my final decision
I havent changed my overall conclusion that, on balance,  Mr P would have been willing to 
transfer from his DB scheme when both the potential to benefit  financially but also the risks 
had been explained to him. So I do not uphold  Mr Ps complaint and make  no award.
Inevitably, one of the parties will be disappointed by the outcome Ive reached.  Im sorry to 
write in terms that will be very disappointing for Mr P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80333844PROVISIONAL DECISION OF 6 SEPTEMBER  2019
background
Mr P was made  redundant by his former  employer  in September  1990. They  provided  him 
with a deferred benefits statement,  which quoted a preserved, unrevalued pension  from the 
DB scheme  of £2,986.78pa, payable at his normal retirement age of 60 in 2016. Parts of this 
pension would increase in deferment in line with inflation or the Retail  Prices Index, up to a 
maximum of 5% per year.
The employer had an arrangement in place  with an independent financial adviser (IFA) 
based in Manchester, who gave presentations and provided advice about  whether to transfer 
out of the scheme. This IFA recommended  Mr P transfer into a plan with Prudential.
Mr P preferred to speak  to a local IFA and was put in touch with Admiral by a relative. The 
advisers notes in April 1991 from Admirals  file give some indication of the service  he 
understood it was providing:
[Mr P] called to see me today to discuss Contracting-out and to transfer  his Frozen 
Pension from [DB scheme]
In passing, he mentioned  that their first son was born [last year]  and that he required 
Life Assurancewe researched the cost of providing Life Assurance at different 
levelshe will consider whether to do this type of Life Assurance or go for Flexible 
Whole of Life
[Mr Ps] wife does not work and I have suggested  that they transfer these monies  [in Mr 
Ps or joint names] into her sole name and register gross.
As regards  to the transfer of his [DB] Pension Fund, he showed  me a quotation from a 
previous I.F.A. in Manchester who had recommended Prudential Holborn. The transfer 
value amounted to approximately  £14,000 but this may well have fluctuated since then.  
However [Mr P] did not want  me to pursue any further enquiries and wanted  me really to 
choose a Company to accept the transfer  value of whatever the amount. Sun Life have 
been selected and the application form has been  sent off to the Trustees
The adviser carried out a fact find, according to Admiral because of the non-pension  
recommendations being made above. This recorded  the following about  Mr Ps 
circumstances and objectives:
He was married (his wife had been a teacher  until the birth of their child)
He was in good health and aged 35
Mr P was earning £12,600 per year in a new job. (I understand this was as an 
accounts assistant,  but a subsequent  note recorded  that hed also been made 
redundant from this role from May 1991)
They had an endowment mortgage on about  half of the value of their home,  but no 
other debts
They held about £18,000 in bank and building society accounts, £700 in 
demutualisation shares and £1,100  in government bonds
He expected to retire  at age 60
His joint first priorities were protecting his family, transferring his DB pension and 
contracting out of SERPS.
On the final page  there were three categories for his attitude  to risk. Speculate was 
crossed out and some  risks was ticked;  no risks  was left blank.
Below this (and just above where Mr P signed the form) the advisers noted Transfer  
but do not investigate deferred  pension benefit  with [employer] , C.O. of SERPS .
Ref: DRN80333845A personal  pension with Sun Life was chosen to receive the transfer from the DB scheme,  
amounting to £15,620 the following month. 100%  was allocated to the with-profits fund and 
the policy matched  Mr Ps former  employers  (and his intended) retirement age of 60.
Bearing in mind the notes above, Admiral  didnt obtain a fresh  illustration of projected 
benefits from Sun Life at the time of sale. An adviser copy  of the first annual  statement for 
Mr Ps non-protected rights fund alone  indicates  a lower projected  pension at retirement of 
£7,540 and a higher projected pension of £22,500. These would have been  based  on the 
regulators standard rates at the time,  of 8.5%  and 13% respectively. (The protected  rights 
element of the fund wasnt payable until state pension  age, and owing to discounting  for 
future inflation appeared as a very small amount.)
Mr Ps case  was considered during the industry-wide Pensions Review in 2000.  Admiral 
carried out a Financial Viability Test (FVT) on third-party software designed to the 
specification of the regulator. This revealed that taking into account  future  revaluation, 
increases in payment and spouses  benefits, the personal pension would have to 
consistently grow at a rate of 10.41% per year in future to match  the benefits payable  from 
the DB scheme. 
Against a maximum FVT rate of 12.80% (for June 1991 transfers  where there was a 25-year  
term to invest), the sale was considered to be a pass. This meant broadly that for a 
customer with the attitude  and capacity  to accept the risks involved,  it would have been  
viewed as reasonably possible in 1991  to achieve a sufficient investment  return  to make  the 
transfer pay off. Although  this test wasnt the only criterion on which  the outcome of the 
review depended, Admiral  also went  on to conclude that Mr P had been an insistent client.
There has been some discussion of this term previously,  as an insistent client  (whilst not a 
term in general usage in 1991) is commonly said to be one who has been advised  not to 
transact and who wishes  to continue against  that advice. Its now understood here that what 
Admiral most likely meant is that Mr P was an execution-only client.  This was defined in the 
rulebook of Admirals regulator in 1991, FIMBRA, as meaning:
in relation to the effecting of a transaction by a member a client with or for whom  that 
transaction is effected in circumstances in which the member can reasonably assume 
that he is not relying upon the member to advise him on or to exercise  any judgement  
on his behalf as to the merits of or the suitability for him of that transaction.
Admiral didnt explain this when it concluded  its Pension Review of Mr Ps case, stating 
simply that it had found the advice it gave complied  with the rules  at the time. 
When Mr P contacted Admiral again  in 2011 it explained that it had considered  he was an 
insistent (or rather execution-only) client. Since  that point Mr P has been  disputing Admirals 
account of the sale. He says that at no time did he receive any advice that the transfer would 
risk him getting a lower pension. He was told he would be foolish  not to transfer,  and he was 
expecting to receive advice, as Admiral received commission on the transfer. He says if 
Admiral felt that the transfer was wrong then it should have refused to proceed  with the 
transaction.
Admiral has maintained its position  on whether  it gave advice. It provided (in 2012)  the 
following report from the original adviser:
[Mr P] told me that this IFA [in Manchester] had investigated the [DB] Pension scheme 
and discussed  the merits or otherwise of transferring from it. He went on to explain that 
Ref: DRN80333846he wanted nothing  more to do with [past  employer] after being made redundant and 
made it clear  that he was disgruntled.

Iexplained that initially we would need  him to sign a letter of authority in order for us to 
obtain information so that I could investigate the merits or otherwise of him transferring  
his pension away from his company  scheme.  [Mr P] asked if it was possible  not to have 
to wait for this to take place and instead  asked if I would simply find him somewhere for 
the transfer sum to be invested...I explained  that we could  assist him on the basis  that 
he appreciated that he was taking responsibility for coming out of the scheme. [Mr P] 
went on to explain that he had been through the details with the IFA in Manchester  and 
wished to proceed in any event. He convinced me that he understood the merits or 
otherwise of transferring and I had no reason to dispute  this as he came across as an 
intelligent individual  with a definite aim in mind  to simply have assistance  in expediting 
the transaction he was certain that he wanted  to transfer and certain that he did not 
need me to investigate  whether he should stay in or leave the scheme.

At no point  did [Mr P] seek  my advice on the Company  Scheme. Furthermore, he 
actively prevented me from investigating the scheme by convincing me that he had 
already sought  the information  he needed.  He was adamant that he had already come 
to an informed decision to transfer and persuaded me that he did not need  to sign the 
letter of authority that allowed me to investigate  the scheme.
My understanding is that Admiral also maintains that this service cannot  investigate the 
complaint because its been reviewed  under the industry-wide Pensions  Review. I believe 
this is a reference to DISP  Rule 3.3.4R(5), which applied at the point this complaint  was 
referred to the Financial  Ombudsman Service. This says:
The Ombudsman may dismiss a complaint without considering its merits if he considers 
that:

(5) the respondent has reviewed the subject  matter of the complaint in accordance  with:
(a) the regulatory standards for the review  of such transactions prevailing at the time 
of the review; or
(b) the terms of a scheme order under  section  404 of the Act (Schemes for reviewing 
past business); or
(c) any formal regulatory requirement, standard or guidance published by the FSA or 
other regulator in respect of that type of complaint;
(including, if appropriate, making  an offer of redress to the complainant),  unless he 
considers that they did not address the particular circumstances of the case.
In respect of this a previous  adjudicator  has already taken the view, which is now known to 
both parties, that Admiral  didnt correctly carry out the Optional  Compliance Test (OCT), 
part of which was the FVT. As such  they didnt consider that the ombudsman  service could 
dismiss the complaint  as one which was reviewed in accordance with the regulatory 
standards for the review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
should the complaint be dismissed  by application  of a long stop?
Ref: DRN80333847I mentioned in my jurisdiction decision that when we look at the merits of this complaint we 
will need  to take into account the outcome the PIAOB might have reached, as were required 
to do by the Transitional Order1.
As Mr Ps complaint has been made after the Financial Ombudsman Service  commenced  
(1 December  2001)  about an act that occurred before that date (when  the former scheme  
the PIAOB  was in existence), it will be subject  to our compulsory jurisdiction where it 
satisfies the provisions of  the Transitional  Order. The Order  refers to such complaints as 
relevant new complaints.  
Under Article 4(1)(c) of the Transitional Order, it is clear that it is the ombudsman  scheme 
rules in DISP that determine whether a relevant new complaint is in time. The scheme rules 
make no reference to the Limitation Act 1980  or a 15 year long stop. Consequently, I have 
already determined under DISP2.8.2R that Mr Ps complaint  has been referred in time. But 
despite a relevant new complaint being  made  in time under DISP2.8.2R, the Transitional 
Order does require  me to have regard to the former  PIAOB scheme in the following respect.  
Article 7 (2) of the Order  provides that, when determining the merits of the complaint by 
reference to what  is fair and reasonable, as well as what amount constitutes fair 
compensation, I must take into account  what determination the former ombudsman (the 
PIAOB) might have been expected to reach and what compensation (if any) he might have 
been expected to award. This requirement  is also set out in 3.6.5G and DISP 3.7.3G.  
Im aware that the PIAOB terms of reference said that the ombudsman  could  not consider or 
comment on a complaint about  the carrying on of investment business (as defined)  where  it 
would be time-barred in court as a claim for negligence. This meant that the Limitation Act 
1980 was relevant to whether complaints  were referred to the PIAOB in time. 
I am also aware that the time barring rule in the PIAOB terms of reference  was amended so 
that it did not apply in a complaint which concerned  a contract or policy which  is or may be 
the subject of a review  under the terms of the Pension Review where in the opinion  of the 
ombudsman it would  be inequitable for such a time bar to apply (for instance where delays  
had been brought about by the review process itself). 
The Limitation Act 1980 sets out the time limits for bringing different claims in courts. There  
are different  time limits  for different types  of claim.  The Act includes a long stop so that no 
claim for negligence may be brought  more than 15 years after the last negligent act 
complained of. 
Although Im not required to follow the position under the former scheme, Im required to 
take it into account in reaching my determination  on the merits of this complaint. I also note 
that the position under the Limitation Act is required to be taken into account by s.228 (2) of 
FSMA2 and DISP3.6.4R, which provide that when determining a complaint by reference to 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case, I must take into account the 
relevant law (which would include the Limitation Act). Further,  Im aware  that Admiral has in 
the past made representations about  the delays  that have taken place since the advice 
which is the subject  of this complaint.
1 the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001
2 The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
Ref: DRN80333848As Mr Ps complaint was referred in 2011 in connection with the advice given by Admiral  in 
1991, it is clear that the 15 year period in the long stop provision has been exceeded. In turn, 
there is a reasonable prospect that Mr Ps complaint, were it made to either a court or to the 
PIAOB, would fail.
Nonetheless, and as Ive said, in determining  the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint, I am merely required to take that possibility into account and am not bound by it. 
In my view there are a number of compelling considerations that would tell against the 
application of a long stop provision in this case.   
Firstly, it is clear that personal pensions are long term investment products. It is not 
surprising that the likelihood that damage has been  suffered as a result  of advice to transfer 
pension benefits  might not be known to a consumer until he or she is close  to retirement, or 
actually retires. For all the reasons outlined in my jurisdiction decision, I do not consider that 
he was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware, that he had cause for complaint 
more than three years before the point at which he actually referred his complaint. I also 
dont consider there to be evidence on which I can say Mr P unreasonably failed to refer his 
complaint soon after the stage at which he acquired the requisite awareness.  
More generally, I am mindful also of the fact that in drafting FSMA, Parliament did not 
require the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service to include a long stop akin to the 
Limitation Act. It is clear that those  rules were not intended to replicate the complex  
provisions of the Limitation Act 1980,  and this is in keeping  with the statutory objectives of 
the scheme as set out in section 225 of FSMA which provides for a scheme  under which 
certain disputes may be resolved quickly and with minimum  formality by an independent  
person.  
Ultimately I consider it to be a matter of fairness. The position at law under the Limitation Act 
is a factor  to be weighed  when balancing prejudice to the parties in arriving  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Admiral was able to provide a written client file from the time of the 
transfer, including contemporaneous notes  of its position that it did not provide advice. It was 
able to provide  very clear  and thorough recollections  from the adviser of what was discussed  
with Mr P at that time. It follows that although  I do fully appreciate the additional  distress  that 
the delay in this matter  has caused  Admiral, to my mind the prejudice that would be caused  
to Mr P were I to apply  a long stop akin to that in the Limitation  Act outweighs any prejudice 
that might  be caused to Admiral by not applying it.  
In turn, it is currently my decision  not to apply a longstop in this case.  
was Mr P an execution-only  client?
The FIMBRA definition Ive quoted in the background above essentially means that if Mr P 
was relying on Admiral to exercise judgement as to the suitability of a transaction,  whether it 
is described as advice or not, he couldnt be classed  as an execution-only client. 
In my view, Mr P relied on Admirals judgement of what  pension  provider he should  transfer  
to. I dont think its possible to split transferring from the DB scheme  and transferring to a 
personal pension  as separate transactions. Money  cant be held outside a pension,  so these 
are two ends of the same transaction. That means  Mr P couldnt  have been classed as an 
execution-only client under the FIMBRA rules.  
However Ive also considered the regulators guidance more generally concerning execution-
only sales under  the Pensions Review, as it gives some useful context to how we consider 
Ref: DRN80333849complaints about  execution-only  sales generally. In the Securities and Investment Boards 
(SIB) publication in October 1994 entitled  Pension  Transfer and Opt Outs  Review  of Past 
Business, the regulator indicated that:
Where records  indicate  that a transfer was arranged on an execution-only basis  or 
effected upon the investors insistence despite  advice to the contrary, the firm should 
seek fresh  corroboration  of that point  unless there is clear  and creditable  evidence on 
file such as a letter  in the investors own hand.
In other  words, if a business was passing  an execution-only sale as compliant in the 
Pensions Review itself,  the regulator would have expected to see fresh corroboration  of that 
point or a contemporaneous letter where  the consumer has instructed the transfer to take 
place. This would be a starting point when the ombudsman service  is investigating a 
complaint about  such a transfer, and I dont  consider  this type of evidence  exists in Mr Ps 
case. 
According to the advisers own account, which Ive considered  carefully, Mr P was impatient 
to proceed with the transfer  and his account  suggests there  was discussion about Mr P 
accepting responsibility  for the transfers suitability in order to expedite  it. However  there 
seems to have been no attempt  to formalise any such understanding in writing, so that a 
contemporaneous record was kept which would put the matter  beyond dispute. The closest  
we come to this is the Transfer  but do not investigate note on the fact find above Mr Ps 
signature. But this doesnt  include the intended destination for the transfer, precisely  
because I think Mr P was waiting for Mr P to advise  him where he should transfer to. 
I dont consider that this amounts to an execution-only instruction  or that, when considering 
its overarching duty to act in a clients best interest  Admiral can have a separate duty only to 
advise on the destination of the funds without considering  where theyve come from. As 
such, the FIMBRA rules  on best advice  applied.
should the complaint be dismissed  as it was dealt with by Admiral under the Pensions 
Review?
The next issue for me to determine is whether this is a complaint we should dismiss under 
DISP 3.3.4R(5). This rule mirrors the provision under the PIAOBs  terms of reference 
themselves that if the Ombudsman was satisfied that the firm had reviewed the transaction 
in accordance with the PIAs standards for the review then he shall make no award, unless 
he was of the opinion that the particular circumstances of the case were  not addressed by 
the standards.
I noted in my provisional jurisdiction decision that the OCT didnt cater  for execution-only 
transactions: a flowchart in the specific guidance for this test illustrates that the alternative 
standard compliance assessment dealt with such transactions. So if Admiral  was right to 
regard this as an execution-only sale  and I dont think  it was for the reasons Ive given 
above  it shouldnt have been using the OCT  to send Mr P a further questionnaire probing 
his recollections of the advice he received, and making a decision on whether the 
transaction complied  with the rules based on his answers to that questionnaire.
But that aside,  I also agree with the original  adjudicators opinion  that if this case  was being 
considered in the Pensions Review as an advised  sale  as I think  it should  have been  the 
actions Admiral took when it reviewed  Mr Ps answers to the OCT questionnaire werent in 
accordance with the regulators standards:
Ref: DRN803338410-Mr P had ticked no to the question  When  you decided to transfer had you been told 
that the amount of pension from your employers scheme was mainly guaranteed? . 
Although hed written  possible above his tick he explained that he was not sure how 
clearly this was explained if at all (my emphasis). Admiral  considered that it had 
contradictory evidence  on its file from the DB scheme, but on my review  of the file I 
cant find anything from that scheme explicitly saying anything  other  than the 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  was guaranteed.
-Mr P had also ticked no to the question When you decided to transfer  had you been 
told that the amount of pension from your personal pension was not guaranteed, and 
that it could be less (or more) than the pension  that you would have received from 
your employers  scheme? . Admiral  again considered that it had contradictory 
evidence, but this was on the basis that As we did not advise the investor on the 
merits of the transfer, he must  be referring  to the previous IFA.
-Finally, Mr P ticked no to the question  Were  you told about any changes to the 
pension that would be provided for your dependents?. Here Admirals  contradictory 
evidence was simply the words insistent  client.  So not surprisingly,  it was unable to 
refute the claims Mr P made  on a form intended  to cater  for an advised sales 
process, because it didnt consider it had provided him with advice to transfer out of 
the DB scheme  itself.
The OCT gave instructions to businesses that a case would automatically fail the OCT if the 
consumer had answered no to any question and it couldnt find evidence  to the contrary. As 
such I believe this case should  have failed the OCT because Admiral  wasnt  able to 
demonstrate the quality  of advice it should have  given  on whether Mr P should transfer out 
of the DB scheme, if it didnt actually give that advice. So I cant  agree this complaint should  
be dismissed under DISP  3.3.4R(5) on the basis that Admiral reviewed it in accordance  with 
the regulatory standards for the review.
However that doesnt mean I am constrained to considering in the rest of this decision how 
Admiral should have carried out its review.  Im mindful that Admiral  could try to argue that it 
could have carried out a full compliance assessment which would have  successfully 
concluded that Mr P was an execution-only client. I think thats unlikely, for similar reasons to 
those I explain below.  But the overriding point to make here is that as Im not dismissing the 
complaint (because  it wasnt appropriately  reviewed under the Pensions  Review), Im 
required to consider Mr Ps referral  to this service  as a complaint  about the original  advice he 
received; not about how it should have been dealt with under the Pensions Review.  That 
review process concluded many  years ago and is long since closed.
was the transfer  from the DB scheme  suitable  advice?
The FIMBRA rules said that unless a transaction was an execution-only transaction (which  
Ive said this transaction was not), the following rules applied on providing best advice:
4.2     Know your Client
4.2.1  A member shall, prior to performing any services for a client,  take reasonable 
steps to obtain  from the client such information  concerning the personal and financial 
circumstances of that client as may be expected to be relevant for the proper 
performance of investment services for that client; but for this purpose a member  need 
not pursue enquiries made  of a person for whom any services are to be provided if that 
person has refused to answer  them.
Ref: DRN803338411I consider Admiral would  have been  able to comply with rule 4.2.1 to a large extent as a 
result of the fact find it completed.
4.3     Understanding of Risk
4.3.1    a member shall not recommend to a client a transaction  in an investment or 
arrange or effect such a transaction with or for a client (other than an execution-only 
client) unless, before the recommendation is made or the transaction is effected, the 
member has taken  all reasonable steps  to satisfy itself that the client understands the 
extent to which he will be exposed to risk or further liability by entering into the 
transaction.
Here, there isnt any evidence that Admiral discussed the relative risks of a largely  
guaranteed pension in the DB scheme versus  being  subject to investment performance and 
annuity rates  outside the scheme, in order to comply  with rule 4.3.1.
4.4     Best Advice
4.4.1  A member shall not:
(a) give advice to any client concerning investments; or
(b) recommend any investments to a client; or
(c) arrange or effect any transaction in investments with or for a client (other than 
an execution-only client)  unless:
(1) the member has fulfilled the requirements  of Rule 4.2 in relation  to that 
client; and
(2) in the light of the knowledge of the client so gained and having regard to 
any other  relevant information which ought reasonably  to be known to the 
member, the member has determined, using  reasonable care in so doing:
(i) which  class or classes of investments; and
(ii) which  particular investment or investments within that class or those 
classes; and 
(iii) where appropriate,  which  transaction or transactions;
          are the most suitable for the client.

4.4.4  Subject to the following provisions of this Rule 4.4, in the case of a transaction 
relating to a life policy or a pension  contract  a member shall not recommend 
such a transaction nor arrange or effect such a transaction on behalf of a client  
(other than an execution-only client)  unless the member believes, having  
exercised reasonable care in forming its belief,  that no transaction  in any other  
such investment  of which  the member is or ought reasonably to be aware, and 
which would be available  from the same or a different source, would be likely to 
secure the objectives of the client more  advantageously than the transaction 
recommended, arranged or effected  by the member
Here, its evident that Admiral didnt consider that remaining  in the DB scheme  was an option  
for Mr P at all, whether  this was suitable for him or not  because  it believed that he had 
already ruled  out that option. As I explained  earlier in this decision, I dont consider Admiral 
could have a separate  duty only to advise on the destination of the funds without considering 
where they had come  from.  And if Admiral  believed that remaining in the DB scheme would 
have secured Mr Ps objectives more advantageously, it could (and should) have 
recommended that he do so.
As a result of considering  the above, I dont  think Admiral  is able to demonstrate  that it gave 
best advice to Mr P. But a failure  to comply  with regulatory rules in itself doesnt mean that 
failure caused any loss Mr P has suffered. I also need to consider what a suitable  
Ref: DRN803338412recommendation would have been for someone  with Mr Ps circumstances and objectives,  
and then whether  Mr P would have followed that advice. Ive already  set out in the rules 
above how an adviser in 1991  would have gone  about giving suitable advice.
Admiral assessed Mr P as having what is a broadly medium attitude to risk. Despite the 
limitations of the three-point scale  it used, I dont think this is an unlikely assessment. Mr Ps 
existing experience of taking  risks with investments seems to be confined  to an endowment 
mortgage and privatisation shares, neither of which were particularly uncommon  for the time.  
But as a member of a DB pension from an early age, and having previously had the priorities 
of saving for a home and a family, he hadnt  had much opportunity to take risk. That didnt 
necessarily preclude him from taking   within reason  a moderate amount of risk when the 
opportunity of transferring out of the DB scheme presented  itself,  if this was likely  to better 
his financial position.
I note that this is also supported by a later assessment Admiral  carried  out of his attitude to 
risk in 2008  here a 10-point scale was used based on the results  of a psychometric test 
which, again, placed Mr P at the middle  of the scale. And further, whilst Mr P and Admiral 
dispute the extent to which it was expected  to advise him, I cant  dismiss the advisers 
recollection entirely that Mr P was interested in transferring. In my view it would have been 
unusual for Mr P to seek out a different adviser more  local to him if he hadnt been  attracted 
to the prospects of improving on his DB pension.
Its difficult for me to comment  on the advisers  recollection that Mr P wanted  to break all ties 
with his former employer,  except to say that an adviser giving best advice should have 
cautioned a client  from making any decision that was purely emotive  and not soundly based  
on their financial circumstances and objectives. It doesnt seem  from the advisers account 
that he did this, if Mr P had expressed such an opinion about  his former employer. However 
that is not to say that Mr P didnt potentially have other sound reasons of a financial basis  for 
transferring.
In addition to his attitude to risk I consider that, at a still relatively young age, Mr P had some 
capacity to take risk by making a pension transfer  at this time. The 16 years  service in the 
DB pension,  which hed obviously joined shortly after leaving full-time education, was his 
only retirement provision at the time of the transfer (other  than the state pension). However 
he had a significant amount of time (around 25 years) before his selected  retirement  age of 
60 in which  to build up additional provision. 
Bearing in mind that at both his previous employers Mr P had worked in accounting, I 
consider he would have had a positive view of his career prospects. And I think  its likely that 
the future  roles he secured would have  included access to occupational  pensions. Whilst no-
one could be certain, there was a reasonable prospect  in 1991 of some  future pension 
scheme(s) being as generous as the DB scheme  from his first employer. And the length of 
time until he would retire was a significant  term over which  to position for substantial  returns 
from investing in the stock  market  compared with, say, someone  who was very close to 
retirement and couldnt afford to expose their pension to the risk of a downturn.
Given that Mr P didnt have such a low attitude to or capacity  for risk that would rule out 
contemplating a pension  transfer entirely, Ive next looked at how viable the transfer was 
financially. At the time of advice this would  generally be done  by comparing the personal 
pension projections  with the revalued DB pension at retirement. Whilst there  isnt a 
projection from the time of sale, this task has subsequently  been  made  easier by the FVT 
carried out during  the Pensions  Review.
Ref: DRN803338413Mr Ps case  was already  a substantial pass, but Ive also noticed that the data was input 
into the calculation  during  the Pensions  Review  in such a way that all Mr Ps non-GMP  
pension (£2,311pa)  revalued in line with inflation  when only about a third of it (£805pa) 
would actually have  revalued, according to the deferred  benefits statement. The effect of this 
was that the FVT arrived at a total figure  for the revalued pension  at age 60 of £10,006pa, 
when if the correct portion of the excess pension was revalued  it would look to produce  a 
total of only £6,412pa.
I should note there  would be a difference between a figure of £6,412pa and what Admiral  
asserted was the revalued DB pension for the purposes of my jurisdiction decision 
(£7,071pa). The reason appears  to be in the way the software  designed to the regulators 
specification models  the early payment  of Mr Ps GMP.  This part of his pension doesnt  have  
to be met until state pension age of 65, even though the Hydro Fertilizers scheme retirement 
age was 60. The revalued GMP figure quoted on the deferred  benefits statement included 
revaluation all the way up to age 65.
Admirals FVT gives a total cost that would be required  (by age 60) to provide a future  DB 
pension of £10,006pa, based on what were considered to be reasonable economic 
assumptions specified by the regulator for the investment climate in 1991. This cost was 
£134,234  whereas if the actual  figure  for the DB pension would have been  £6,412pa  
(made up of the same GMP but a lower amount of pension in excess of the GMP), this 
would change that value to £95,850. 
The FVT then gives a critical yield, being the future  investment  return required in 1991  to 
achieve the value of £134,234 by age 60. This was 10.41%  per year  but it would actually 
have been about 1.5%  lower, or around 8.9% per year,  if Mr P only needed to achieve a 
value of £95,850 at age 60. (This continues to use the existing assumptions made in the 
FVT for spouses benefits and pension increases whilst in payment.)
The upper limit of growth which the regulator considered was achievable at the time of 
Mr Ps transfer in 1991 was 12.8% per year. So what I believe would have  been  a more 
accurate FVT result  is nearly 4% below this upper limit. 
An investor might have needed  to invest substantially  in shares to achieve a return 
consistently at 12.8%  per year, but not in my view when only looking for a return  a little 
higher than 8.9% per year. This was marginally more than the lowest  growth rate the 
regulator required to be used on projections in 1991  (8.5%). Mr P invested in a with-profits 
fund and at that time, with-profits funds were paying annual bonuses  nearing (if not 
achieving) 10% per year  with the expectation also of a final bonus at the end of the term. 
In my view it would have been  viewed as a reasonable proposition in 1991 for someone  
willing to take some risk, with a greater length  of time over which  both to invest and also 
build up further  pension provision, to transfer when  the critical yield was this low. Its also 
reflected in the fact that even the lowest projection  for just the non-protected rights part of 
Mr Ps pension  one year after the transfer  took place, was £7,540 per year. Whilst this didnt 
take into account increases in payment or a spouses pension, there was also a smaller 
protected rights pension  payable in addition.
Given that Mr P didnt have a particularly high attitude or capacity for risk, I consider the 
with-profits fund provided a reasonable compromise.  It was capable of exceeding this critical 
yield, but also incorporated the protection of a smoothing mechanism which  meant that the 
value of the fund with existing bonuses couldnt fall if it was held until retirement date. 
Unfortunately with-profits funds collectively suffered as a result of the stock market  crashes 
Ref: DRN803338414at the turn of the millennium, and many  reduced their exposure to shares  with a consequent 
impact on their ability to pay bonuses as high as they did in the 1990s. But I cant  expect 
Admiral to have anticipated  the extent of this downturn at the time it advised Mr P in 1991.
Ive said above  that Admiral  didnt discuss the relative risks of a largely  guaranteed  pension 
in the DB scheme versus  being subject to investment performance and annuity rates outside 
the scheme. In order to comply with its regulators rules, Admiral would have needed to do 
this, to ensure  that Mr P not only received suitable advice but also understood the risks 
inherent in that advice.  Some  of those risks were  however mitigated by the selection  of a 
with-profits fund. So on balance, I consider Mr P would  have been willing  to transfer  when 
the both potential to benefit  financially but also the risks had been  explained  to him.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, its my provisional decision that Admiral didnt give 
unsuitable advice  to Mr P in 1991   and as a result I dont intend to uphold  this complaint. I 
appreciate that this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr P after the time it has 
taken to address  the jurisdiction objections raised on this complaint, however this is in my 
view a fair and reasonable decision when it comes to the merits of the complaint.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8033384