K821x#15complaint
The late Mr Gs representative has complained that Mr G was incorrectly advised to transfer 
his existing pension  benefits into a SIPP by Pacific IFA Limited. The SIPP funds were then 
invested into an overseas Harlequin Property  investment  that, it is said, presented  too much 
risk for him and was unsuitable. The beneficiaries of the SIPP have also complained on that 
basis and joined the complaint on 11 September 2016.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 16 April 2020. A copy  is attached  and forms part of this 
final decision. In the provisional decision I set out that the complaint was brought by the 
representative of the late Mr G and the beneficiaries of the SIPP  Ms A and Mr B. I also set 
out  why I believed the late Mr Gs and Ms A and Ms Bs complaint would fall within my 
jurisdiction. I discussed  why I intended  to uphold the late Mr Gs and Ms A and Mr Bs 
complaint, but that I could not make an award  to the late Mr Gs estate. I did intend  to make 
an award to Ms A and Mr B.
The late Mr G, Ms A and Mr Bs representative confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Pacific did not accept the provisional decision.  I have  read its response  in full but, in 
summary, it said:
It agreed with the finding in the provisional decision that I could not make  an award in 
favour of the late Mr G.
The provisional decision did not address the key question as to whether  Ms A and Mr 
B have  brought a complaint that satisfies the definition in DISP.
This service was wrong  to consolidate the complaints of the late Mr G and Ms A and 
Mr B because  there has been  no consolidation.  Ms A and Mr B joined the complaint 
of the late Mr G rather than making  a separate complaint:
A complaint was made  on behalf of the late Mr G to Pacific by letter dated 13 April 
2015. That made no mention of Ms A and Mr B. After Pacific  issued a response to 
that complaint,  the complaint was referred  to this service. No mention was made  of 
Ms A and Mr B. This service sent the complaint  form to Pacific and this services 
adjudicator issued an opinion letter setting out the complaint  had been  made  by the 
executor of Mr Gs estate. The adjudicator later requested that Ms A and Mr B be 
added to the complaint form because she believed that redress  would be awarded to 
them. But no reference is made to the complaint  having been made by Ms A and Mr 
B. 
Ms A and Mr B signed the complaint  form on 11 September 2016  but no other  
amendments were  made and it remained a complaint on behalf  of the late Mr Gs 
estate, alleging  loss suffered  by his estate.
The adjudicator then issued her opinion  letter as to the late Mr Gs complaint, which  
upheld the complaint and directed  an award  be made to Ms A and Mr B on the basis  
that the transfers had not been made.
Ref: DRN87628862So, the evidence  proves that there  was no consolidation of complaints or 
complainants because Ms A and Mr B never  made a complaint  to Pacific or this 
service before the adjudicator added  them to the FOS system. And they were  only 
added by the adjudicator so she could award  them redress   she did not uphold any 
separate complaint by Ms A and Mr B. 
Ms and Mr B signed the complaint form as beneficiaries of Mr Gs estate,  not as 
beneficiaries of the SIPP.  The adjudicator clearly thought  that they had been added 
as beneficiaries of the estate as she thought that, as they were  the nominated 
beneficiaries of the SIPP,  this made  them the nominated beneficiaries of the estate.
The provisional decision therefore makes an error of fact. There  were  no complaints 
or complainants to consolidate. There was no exercise of DISP  3.5.1R by the 
adjudicator  adding Ms A and Mr B to award them redress  is not a means of 
attempting to resolve the complaint  at the earliest stage. Ms A and Mr B thought  they 
were signing  the complaint form as beneficiaries of M Gs estate  this was confirmed 
in Ms A and Mr Bs representative in their covering  letter.  
In any event neither  Ms A or Mr B have  made  a complaint that satisfies the definition 
of complaint in DISP.  All that they did was add their names to the complaint form so 
that the adjudicator could award  them redress  on the basis  they were  beneficiaries  of 
the estate. The complaint  did not change and still referred to the original  complaint  
letter from the complainants representatives.  
The definition of complaint in DISP  requires Ms A and Mr B to have alleged in the 
complaint to Pacific  that they have suffered loss but no such allegations were made 
in the original complaint letter or in the complaint form. The only loss referred to in 
the complaint  was the loss suffered by the estate of the late Mr G.
This service has no power  to determine Ms A and Mr Bs complaint in any event  as 
DISP 2.8.1 states the ombudsman can only consider a complaint if Pacific has 
already sent the complaint its final response  or eight weeks has elapsed  since Pacific  
received the complaint. No complaint was made  by Ms A or Mr B and the provisional  
decision recognises this. So this service cannot consider a complaint by Ms A and Mr 
B because they have  not made a complaint about Pacific. 
In the first provisional decision I did not refer to there being a complaint  by Ms A and 
Mr B. If I did not think they had made  a complaint  then then it is irrational to now 
suggest otherwise.  
If the ombudsman  does not agree then it requests it is provided with evidence  of Ms 
A and Mr B having satisfied the requirements in DISP.
In terms of eligibility, Ms A and Mr B have not brought a complaint that satisfies  DISP 
so cannot be eligible  complainants for DISP 2.7.6R. In any event DISP 2.7.6R sets 
out that Ms A and Mr B had to be in receipt of death benefits  under the SIPPs  
discretionary trust as at the date this service says it brought their complaint. It follows  
that the relationship has to be in the present tense  as well. 
Ref: DRN87628863As at the date Ms A and Mr B were  added to the complaint form neither had a 
relationship with Pacific. The provisional  decision makes a distinction between  a 
beneficiary of a SIPP and someone  who has a beneficial interest in a SIPP  in 
justifying an indirect relationship with Pacific. However a beneficiary of a trust is 
someone who is in actual receipt  of benefits  from the trust. Mr G would not have 
been a beneficiary  until such time as he was in receipt of benefits, he only had a 
beneficial interest until retirement  and was an intended beneficiary until his death. He 
had a direct relationship with Pacific because he was its customer. The first question   
when interpreting DISP  is what  was intended  by the FSA when it introduced  the DISP 
rules in 2008. 
It does not agree  that the FSAs  intention  was to allow beneficiaries of personal 
pension schemes  to bring complaints  against  advisers of members of pension  
schemes when the new rules  were created in 2008  as is set out in the provisional 
decision.
In respect of DISP  2.4.12R(5) the FSA did not intend to allow  beneficiaries to 
complain about advice given to customers who were thinking of setting up a SIPP 
and the FSA consultation paper CP06/05 does not say that. It is clear the intention 
was to allow beneficiaries to complain about  the new regulated  activity  of 
establishing, operating and winding up a personal  pension  scheme. An adviser giving 
advice to an individual about  whether to establish a SIPP would not be performing 
that new regulated  activity. 
In any event the advice is not about  advice provided to a member  of a SIPP but 
advice provided  to an individual as to whether  to acquire rights in a SIPP.
The large time lag between the Gorham and White v Jones cases  and the 
introduction of DISP  2.4.12R(5) in 2007 and the lack of reference to them in CP06/05  
is strong evidence that the rule amendments of 2007 were not intended to give effect  
to the principles set out in those cases. 
It disagrees with this services analysis  of White v Jones and Gorham.  It says 
eligibility is determined by DISP. The position  of Pacific is not analogous to the 
solicitor in White v Jones. The employment of Pacific was not to confer benefits for 
the children  it was to advise  on a suitable SIPP  to allow M G to achieve  his 
objectives. In the Fact Find Mr G only identified Mr B as a dependant, Ms A wasnt 
identified. identifying needs for dependents/children was crossed  through and 
marked not applicable. The sole priority  was maintaining Mr Gs standard  of living  in 
retirement.   
Mr Gs nomination of Ms A and Mr B as beneficiaries was after Pacific had provided  
its advice to Mr G. So the evidence is that the nomination of Ms A and Mr B was not 
in the contemplation of Pacific when  it gave its advice and nor was that the purpose  
of the meeting between Mr G and Pacific.  
Ref: DRN87628864Pacific had no duty to take into account  the intended beneficiaries  when it gave its 
advice and no such duty arose  under  COBS  or PRINS or White  v Jones. Mr G told 
Pacific that family security was of no priority and the nomination  of the children for 
death benefits came after the advice process  had been  completed.  There was no 
obligation created for Pacific by the beneficiaries being nominated after the SIPP 
application. 
The position here is very different  than the position in Gorham. In Gorham  a priority 
was family protection. There was no such priority here. 
As to the merits of the complaint itself, Pacific  did not advise Mr G to invest  in 
Harlequin and no such allegation has been  made against it. 
Mr G had direct experience of investing in an unregulated Cypriot property and so did 
have experience of such  investments   which is what the Harlequin investment was. 
And he was an accountant and so financially sophisticated and astute. This is also 
relevant to the matter of whether he would have continued to invest  if advised not to 
do so.
It doesnt agree that the beneficiaries of the SIPP have been caused any loss by 
Pacific. Because the provisional decision states the transfer would have never taken 
place the loss has been caused to the beneficiaries of the death benefits of the 
Scottish Equitable  plan. On the basis that it is decided that Mr A and Mr B are eligible  
to complain  this does not give rise to make them  an award because no loss has 
been caused in the capacity in which they are eligible complainants.  
The ombudsman can only make an award  to Ms A and Mr B if they are beneficiaries  
of the Scottish  Equitable scheme and are eligible complainants on that basis.  They  
were not. They have not suffered  a loss as beneficiaries of the SIPP as by the 
provisional decisions finding - that would never have been created. 
It does not believe  that Ms A and Mr B can have suffered any inconvenience or upset  
so an award should not be made  in that respect.
 
my findings
The late Mr Gs complaint
Ref: DRN87628865My view remains, as set out in the provisional  decision, that the late Mr G is an eligible 
complainant and this complaint has been  brought by the representative of his estate (Mrs D) 
who is a person authorised by law to do so (DISP 2.7.2R). The late Mr Gs complaint would 
fall within  my jurisdiction. 
In terms of the suitability  of the pension transfer  to the SIPP  so that the Harlequin investment 
could be made, Harlequin was an off plan unregulated speculative overseas property 
investment. It was high risk and the investor  faced the real possibility of losing all their 
money. I would reiterate what I said in the provisional decision  that Mr Gs risk tolerance  
does not indicate he was suitable to that level of risk. None of the answers or gradings in the 
fact find indicate  that he was prepared  to lose all his money or that he was suitable to the 
high level of risk this investment presented.
Mr Gs investment experience was limited and does not suggest that he was an experienced 
investor who could  appreciate all the risks of what he was doing.  He  was not a sophisticated 
or experienced investor.  
The value of Mr Gs pension was also modest  - at about £50,000. The vast majority of that 
money was designated for investing  in Harlequin.  It would not be appropriate to recommend 
that the entire value of a pension should  be invested  in one particular  asset  because of the 
lack of any diversification. Here all the money  was invested in one overseas unregulated  
high risk asset. That was not suitable  advice and it was not suitable  to recommend the 
transfer and setting up of this SIPP  on this basis.   
So I remain  of the view that the late Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. However I do not 
believe I can make  an award to the late Mr Gs estate.
This is because the loss is the difference in death  benefits between that provided on death 
by the SIPP  and that by the previous scheme. And those death benefits would not have 
been paid to the estate.
The death  benefits would not have been payable to Mr Gs estate. The pension benefits 
under either the SIPP or the previous scheme are held under discretionary trust. The 
trustees are the pension  administrators  and whilst  Mr G can indicate  to whom he would like 
any death benefits paid, the trustees  are not bound by this and can pay the death benefits  to 
whosoever they wish.  The death benefits  are also paid outside Mr Gs estate (the reason  
they are not liable to inheritance tax), so would not have fallen within  that estate. So the late 
Mr Gs estate cannot have suffered a loss because the death benefits payable  under the 
previous scheme  would not have fallen  to his estate. 
So, I do not believe I can make an award to the late Mr Gs estate.
In summary,  my decision  is that Mr Gs complaint  falls within my jurisdiction.  I also uphold 
that complaint.  But, factually Mr Gs estate  did not suffer a loss as a result of Pacifics 
advice. My final decision is that financial loss has not been caused to Mr Gs estate so I do 
not make  an award  to it. 
Ms A and Mr Bs complaint
I confirmed in my provisional  decision of 16 April 2020 that Ms A and Mr B had given their 
consent to join the complaint by signing the complaint form on 11 September 2016. That is 
not limited to the mere ability to receive redress or an award. It is indicating their consent to 
Ref: DRN87628866become a party to the complaint itself. Whether the original adjudicator  thought that as part 
of that consent  Ms A and Mr B were enabling the payment of redress  is not relevant, what  is 
material is that they did join the complaint. Ms A and Mr B did join the complaint by signing 
that complaint  form and their representative did make submissions on their behalf   for 
example in response to my provisional decision of 2 May 2019 it made further submissions 
about their eligibility  in their own right in a letter dated 30 July 2019  
In any event the adjudicators letter of 25 July 2018 clarified that Ms A and Mr B were  added 
to the complaint as the nominated beneficiaries of the SIPP.  
The ombudsman service  has broad case management powers that are conferred by DISP 
3.5.1R:
The Ombudsman  will attempt to resolve  complaints at the earliest  possible stage and by 
whatever means  appear to him to be most appropriate, including  mediation or investigation. 
Given those powers it is, and was, appropriate to consolidate the complaints of both the late 
Mr G and Ms A and Mr B - they relate  to the same factual circumstances. 
This service has an informal process and inquisitorial remit and because Ms As and Mr Bs 
complaint relates  to the same  circumstances and the complaint about the actions of Pacific 
is the same  (the unsuitability of the advice it provided), I wouldnt necessarily have expected 
Ms A and Mr B to have provided further submissions at the point they joined  the complaint 
and signed the complaint form. Although the information up to the point they joined the 
complaint was that the late Mr Gs estate has suffered a loss, Ms A and Mr B were paid the 
SIPP death benefits  so they had suffered a loss. 
I would also note that the dismissal rules in DISP  3.3.4R also envisage there can be more 
than one eligible  complainant  the ombudsman can refuse to consider the merits if all 
eligible complainants  have not given  their consent to the complaint given the complaint 
would impact their rights. This is a reason  why the beneficiaries  were  added to the 
complaint.  
The absence of consideration  of Ms A and Mr Bs position as complainants in their own right 
in the first provisional  decision I issued does not mean they cannot be considered as such. I 
did make  an award to them in the first provisional decision I issued  recognising they had 
been caused financial loss. Since the issue of that provisional decision and bearing in mind 
the submissions I received I reviewed the complaint and my original findings and issued 
further provisional decisions which considered the standing of Ms A and Mr B as eligible 
complainants, the merits of that complaint and whether  they can be awarded redress.   
Pacifics representative  has asked to see Ms As and Mr Bs representatives complaint letter 
alleging loss or distress  and inconvenience   to satisfy the definition  of complaint in DISP. It 
also asked for the date when Ms A and Mr Bs complaint was received by Pacific which 
commenced the eight week period for DISP 2.8.1. And the date on which  this service started 
considering Ms As and Mr Bs alleged  complaint.  Finally, it asks on what basis  the 
ombudsman says Ms A and Mr B signed  the complaint form as beneficiaries of the late Mr 
Gs SIPP  it says they signed  it as beneficiaries of Mr Gs estate. 
In joining  the complaint  Ms A and Mr B joined the same complaint as the late Mr G and, as I 
have set out, it is in respect of the same factual circumstances  and the same concerns with 
Ref: DRN87628867the acts of Pacific. The late Mr Gs complaint  (originally  raised with Pacific in 2015) alleged  
that loss had been caused because of acts by Pacific.  Pacific had the applicable  eight week 
period in which to respond to that complaint  in 2015   and indeed did respond to it. Ms A 
and Mr B later joined that complaint. 
I therefore do believe that Ms A and Mr B have made a complaint which would satisfy the 
DISP Rules. In any event,  as discussed  in the attached provisional decision,  Pacific have 
had a significant amount of time to respond  to the complaint joined by Ms A and Mr B, has 
done so and has not been in any way prejudiced by Ms A and Mr B joining the complaint. 
This service has been considering the complaint made by Ms A and Mr B since  they joined 
the complaint  by signing the complaint form. 
I have considered on what basis Ms A and Mr B signed the complaint form above. 
Ms As and Mr Bs eligibility
In the attached provisional decision I set out why I believed Ms A and Mr B did have a 
beneficial interest  in the SIPP for the purposes of DISP 2.7.6R and why they had, at least,  
an indirect relationship  with Pacific.  I also set out that they had been paid the death benefits 
of the SIPP  by the time they made  their complaint  and were therefore beneficiaries of the 
SIPP which is a personal pension scheme - and so met the requirements of DISP  2.6.7R (4). 
They had a relationship with Pacific  as parties with a beneficial interest in the SIPP and 
beneficiaries of the SIPP when their complaint was made. I would confirm that before the 
rule updates the ombudsman service did consider complaints from beneficiaries either  as 
direct customers or as those with an indirect relationship.
It may well be that Mr G was primarily concerned with increasing the value of his pension  
when he met with Pacific. But it was foreseeable that in the unfortunate event of Mr G 
passing away before taking  benefits that death benefits would necessarily be paid and they 
would be paid to a class of nominated beneficiaries. The terms of the SIPP  that Pacific 
recommended clearly set out that the death benefits will be paid to beneficiaries   that was a 
material term of the SIPP  itself and one which Pacific was or should have been aware. 
Therefore there was a causal link and relationship between the advice given to Mr G and the 
beneficiaries  here Ms A and Mr B. Their  loss naturally flows  from the advice given to Mr G. 
With respect to Pacifics submissions about  the simplification of the DISP  eligibility  rules  in 
2008, I did not say that the DISP  Rules were written in contemplation of White v Jones and 
Gorham v BT. What  I said was that these cases discussed that when giving advice or acting 
for a client  there was a general  duty of care to beneficiaries who it was reasonably 
foreseeable would be affected  by that advice. There was a relationship  between  that party  
acting for the client and the beneficiaries. 
That approach and those cases are analogous to the situation being  considered  in this 
complaint. Whilst it is argued  that the beneficiaries in White v Jones and Gorham  BT were  of 
closer proximity to the advice being provided (in that their position  was more actively  
considered than in Mr Gs case), my view is that the general approach  and concept remains 
relevant and applicable  here. That is that the position of the potential beneficiaries of a trust 
or asset  should  be considered and that beneficiaries have  a cause of action against an 
adviser for losses suffered as a result of unsuitable  advice  to the party  setting up that trust or 
creating that asset.
Ref: DRN87628868Furthermore I disagree with Pacifics  submissions that the FSA did not intend  for 
beneficiaries such  as Ms A and Mr B to be able to complain about advice given to a member 
of a personal pension scheme. I do not agree that the FSAs intention was to limit complaints 
to those made by beneficiaries about the regulated activity of establishing, operating and 
winding up a personal pension scheme.  The eligibility criteria was not in my view restricted 
to that. 
I remain of the view that paragraphs  8.20 to 8.22 inclusive of CP06/05 indicate that such  
beneficiaries should  be able to complain against those who have provided advice to 
members of pension schemes (when  they are not members themselves). Furthermore,  as I 
discussed in the provisional  decision, CP07/14 set out that DISP  2.7.6R  was not intended  as 
a substantive change to the categories  of eligible complainants   which,  as also discussed, 
previously included a beneficiary or someone  who has a beneficial interest in a personal 
pension scheme  (DISP 2.4.10R (2b) and DISP  2.4.12R(5)). 
Merits of the complaint
Ive considered and reviewed all the available evidence and arguments,  including Pacifics 
further submissions,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I discussed in the provisional decision that the fact find for Mr G recorded him as a 
balanced risk investor and his preference was for investments which  fell in the middle  of the 
risk spectrum. Although  I note that Pacific has suggested otherwise, the evidence  is that Mr 
G was not a sophisticated or experienced investor. He had very modest  recorded  assets  
with most of his money held in bank  and building society accounts. 
Pacific has said that Mr G held another unregulated overseas property investment and this 
indicates that he was consequently experienced in such investments and wished to invest in 
this way. I recognise that Mr G most likely approached Pacific with the Harlequin investment  
in mind. But as I set out in the provisional decision,  Pacific knew  what the purpose  of the 
transfer to the SIPP  was (investment in Harlequin) and should have therefore assessed  the 
suitability of that investment as well as the SIPP (the two are inextricably linked). Pacific did 
not provide any such suitability  assessment of the associated transaction  or advise on the 
suitability of the Harlequin investment  - but should have done as I discussed in the 
provisional decision. 
Essentially Mr Gs SIPP was to be invested in a single asset  the Harlequin investment.  The 
risk of the investment itself is high  being an off-plan  unregulated  property.  That risk is 
magnified by the fact that that Mr Gs pension  fund was almost  entirely  invested  in this one 
asset  making  him entirely  dependent  on the fortunes of that one unregulated high risk 
asset. In effect  all his eggs were in one basket.  I believe  it is clear that it would not be 
suitable advice  for Mr G to do this or recommend he do so. 
I do not believe it can be necessarily inferred that because Mr G was the owner of a 
personal property  in Cyprus that he was aware of all the risks of investing in the Harlequin 
investment or that such an investment would be suitable for him in respect  of his pension. 
His background in investments does not suggest  that, and his documented attitude  to 
investment risk does  not suggest that. 
I recognise that Mr G was an accountant but he was not a financial adviser  he approached 
Pacific for financial advice and was entitled to rely on the suitability and appropriateness of 
Ref: DRN87628869its advice. For the reasons I have set out in this decision  and in the provisional  decision, 
Pacific should have advised again the transfer  and investment  and I set out in detail why. 
And, being advised by a professional financial adviser, if it had done so I believe it more 
likely that Mr G would have heeded its advice and not transferred or invested. I do not 
believe it is likely that he would have  proceeded in any event and that can be inferred by Mr 
G having a personal  overseas property. I have  not seen persuasive  evidence that Mr G 
would have proceeded against the advice  of Pacific if it had given suitable advice and 
advised against the transfer and investment. 
So I remain  of the view that the complaint should be upheld. 
fair compensation
In the provisional  decision  I set out how fair compensation should be calculated in the 
circumstances and why it should be paid to Ms A and Mr B. My view remains the same and 
as I discussed  the matter  in some detail in the provisional decision I would refer the parties  
to it. 
However, I would  add that I disagree  with Pacific  that Ms A and Mr B cannot be awarded  
redress. As I said in the provisional decision, my award is not to wind back time  to the point 
in time that the transfer was made.  The compensation is to be calculated  by comparing the 
death benefits from the SIPP that were paid to Ms A and Mr B with the death benefits that 
would have been paid to them from Scottish  Equitable pension  had it not been transferred  to 
the SIPP (had the Scottish Equitable plan been in existence at the point death benefits were  
paid) at the same  point in time. 
As explained in the provisional  decision the fact that they were not the beneficiaries  of the 
Scottish Equitable  plan at the point  of transfer  to the SIPP is not the material or relevant 
factor. What is relevant is who the beneficiaries  would have been when the death benefits 
became payable. As discussed in the provisional  decision, that would most likely  have  been  
Ms A and Mr B, who were also the nominated beneficiaries of the SIPP death benefits and 
who were actually paid the death  benefits. 
I do not agree with the submission that Ms A and Mr B cannot be awarded  redress  because  
the nominated  beneficiary before the transfer was another party  (described  as Mrs G by 
Pacific). I have clearly set out why they have  suffered a loss and how that should be 
calculated. That Mrs G could make a separate complaint does not mean that Ms A and Mr 
B should not receive the redress to which they are entitled. As I have  discussed,  on the 
balance of probabilities Ms A and Mr B would have been the beneficiaries  of the Scottish  
Equitable scheme  on the late Mr Gs death. So Mrs G would not have been beneficiary of 
the death benefits and she would not have  been  caused a loss by the acts of Pacific.     
I dont agree with Pacifics  approach  that Ms A and Mr B cannot be awarded  redress on the 
basis they were not beneficiaries of the Scottish  Equitable scheme. They are eligible 
complainants with respect to the SIPP and I have upheld their complaint. I have then 
decided what is fair compensation to award as I am permitted  to do by DISP 3.7.2R. The 
redress is being calculated by reference to the death benefits that would have been supplied  
by the Scottish  Equitable plan. I think it is more  likely  than not that they would have been the 
beneficiaries of the Scottish Equitable plan had it continued when  the death benefits  were 
paid, and at the point  they made their complaint. It is therefore entirely fair that they are 
compensated for the loss in value of death benefits  directly caused by Pacifics  acts. 
Ref: DRN876288610Pacific has also queried my suggested award for inconvenience and upset caused to Ms A 
and Mr B. Ms A and Mr B were supplied with far less in the way of death benefits than they 
would have been but for the acts of Pacific. They have been  deprived of this money  for 
several years  since the death benefits were paid. I believe it likely  follows  and is entirely 
reasonable that they have  been  caused some  upset and inconvenience by that and an 
award should be made. The fact that they have been represented in bringing their complaint  
does not mean that they have not suffered such upset and inconvenience  especially  on 
discovering that Pacifics  acts have caused them significant loss. My suggested award  is fair 
in the circumstances.   
I set out how the redress should be calculated in the provisional decision  but to reiterate: 
Pacific should calculate  and pay Ms A and Mr B the sum of (C + D), where:
A.The death benefit that would  have been paid from Mr Gs previous Scottish Equitable 
pension plan, as at the date of his death,  if it had not been  transferred to the SIPP.  
B.The death benefit paid from Mr Gs SIPP. 
C.(A  B)
D.Interest on the amount  calculated in C at 8% simple per annum gross  from the date 
the SIPP death benefit was paid until the date of my final decision.  
In addition, Pacific should  pay Ms A and Mr B £300 for the significant inconvenience and 
upset caused.
In respect of A Pacific should ask Mr G's former pension provider to calculate  the death  
benefit that would have  been paid had he not transferred his pension but instead remained 
invested. If there are any difficulties in obtaining that value  then the increase or decrease  in 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market Income Total Return Index should be applied to the sum 
transferred from the Scottish Equitable pension from the date it was transferred  to the date 
of death. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return  that could have been achieved  if 
suitable funds  had been chosen.
The interest applied  in D is to compensate Ms A and Mr B for being kept out of the loss sum 
money from the date they received the SIPP death  benefits to the date of my final decision. 
my final decision
The late Mr G is an eligible complainant.  However,  his estate has not suffered a financial  
loss and so I cannot  make  an award  to it. 
Ms A and Mr B are eligible complainants. Their complaint would fall within my jurisdiction 
and I uphold their complaint for the reasons set out in the attached provisional decision and 
this final decision.  
I order Pacific  IFA Limited to calculate and pay redress as set out above. If that award is not 
paid within  28 days of the acceptance  of my final decision then 8% simple  interest  per 
annum gross  will be payable on the loss calculated  from the date of my final decision  until 
the date the award is paid. 
Ref: DRN876288611Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pacific deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Ms A and Mr B how much has been taken off. Pacific should give Ms A 
and Mr B a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A, Mr B and 
the late Mr Gs representative to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN876288612copy provisional decision 
complaint
The late Mr Gs representative has complained that Mr G was incorrectly advised  to transfer his 
existing pension benefits into a SIPP  by Pacific IFA Limited.  The SIPP funds were then invested  into 
an overseas Harlequin Property investment that, it is said, presented too much risk for him and was 
unsuitable. The beneficiaries  have also complained on that basis and joined the complaint on 11 
September 2016.  
background
I previously issued a provisional decision dated 24 May 2017  in which I upheld the complaint made  by 
the estate of the late Mr G. That was because I did not believe the advice Mr G had received was 
suitable for him. Pacific made submissions in response to that provisional  decision. 
In summary it said:
It had sent a letter  of 10 October 2016 in which it submitted that Mr Gs estate had not 
suffered any loss. This was because the death benefits from the pension do not form part of 
his estate. And the beneficiaries under his Will do not benefit from the death  benefits  because 
they are not determined  by, or paid pursuant to, the Will. 
The correct position is that the complainant is the late Mr G and the complaint is brought  on 
his behalf by Mrs D, as executor. Mr G is the complainant for the purposes of DISP  2.7.2R. 
The complainant  is not Mr Gs estate.
The ombudsman  service had no power  to add Ms A or Mr B (the late Mr Gs children) to the 
complaint but in any event  they were not eligible complainants.
The SIPP  death benefits do not pass under  the late Mr Gs Will to his beneficiaries. SIPP 
death benefits are paid out under a separate discretionary trust created by the SIPP contract  
of which the SIPP administrator is trustee to beneficiaries of the SIPP  administrators 
choosing. The death benefits do not form part of the late Mr Gs estate. The same would 
apply to death  benefits  payable under the late Mr Gs previous pension scheme.
S229 (2)(a) of FSMA 2000 sets out that the ombudsman can only make an award suffered by 
the complainant.  The complainant in this case is the late Mr G. As the late Mr G has passed 
away he has not suffered any loss as the death benefits  under the SIPP or the previous 
pension were not payable to him and did not form part of his estate.  So the ombudsman  
cannot make  an award to him.
The beneficiaries of the late Mr Gs estate  are not eligible complainants  as they do not fulfil 
the criteria under  DISP  2.7.6(13). They have also not suffered any loss because  the death 
benefits do not form part of his estate.
The beneficiaries are not complainants because they have not raised a complaint which  
satisfies the definition in DISP. They are also not eligible  complainants because  they do not 
satisfy the criteria  in DISP 2.7.6(4). This is because whilst they may be beneficiaries of death  
benefits paid out by a personal  pension  scheme they have no relationship with Pacific  
Pacific is not the scheme provider, trustee of the SIPP, manager of the SIPP nor a trustee of 
the separate discretionary trust under which death  benefits are paid. They not meet the 
criteria under DISP  2.7.6(13) as the respondent is not a trustee  or personal representative  of 
the discretionary trust.
Ref: DRN876288613The potential beneficiaries of the previous  pension scheme are not known but even if they 
were identified  and raised a complaint against Pacific they would not be eligible complainants 
as the tests  in DISP  2.7.6(4) and DISP 2.7.6(13) would not be satisfied.  In addition,  for 
2.7.6(4) the beneficiary would need to be a present beneficiary  which they would not be. 
On 25 July 2018  we sent a letter to Pacifics  representative. In that letter we suggested: 
that the correct  parties to bring the complaint would be Ms A and Mr B as they were the 
nominated beneficiaries  of the late Mr Gs SIPP.  
that they were eligible  complainants.
 
that the late Mr G wished to provide for Ms A and Mr B via the SIPP and they were the 
nominated beneficiaries  on his death, as well as under his Will. Although the paperwork  was 
(then) unavailable from Scottish Equitable,  there was no reason  to believe they were  not 
beneficiaries under  that pension scheme. 
that Ms A and Mr B had a claim for the loss in value between  the death  benefits  available 
from the two pension schemes. 
Pacifics representative responded by letter of 8 August 2018.  In addition to highlighting the points it 
had already made, in summary it said:
The complaint had been made by Mrs D on behalf  of the late Mr G. It wasnt made  by the 
beneficiaries and it was not correct for them to be joined  to the complaint.  They could bring  a 
new complaint but they would not then be eligible  complainants in any event. 
Ms A and Mr B are not eligible complainants.
Ms A and Mr B would not have suffered any loss in any event as the ombudsmans findings  
were that the SIPP would not have been created.
The previous Scottish Equitable pension plan was not a contract  of insurance and the death  
benefits did not amount  to a contract of insurance. And it was in any event  not taken out 
through Pacific (a qualification under DISP 2.7.6 (5)) as it was already in existence when 
Pacific was instructed. 
It has since been discovered  that the nominated beneficiary of the death  benefits  under the previous 
Scottish Equitable  personal pension was Mr Gs wife at that time, not Ms A and Mr B. 
I then issued  a provisional decision of 2 May 2019 in which I set out why I did not believe the late Mr 
Gs children, Ms A and Mr B, were eligible complainants. And I also set out why I did not believe I 
could make an award to Mr Gs estate. 
Mr Gs estate representative  did not agree  with the provisional decision. I have considered  its 
response in full, but in summary it said:
Mr Gs children (Ms A and Mr B)
They  were consumers for the purposes of DISP 2.7.3R(1). Bearing  that in mind, they could 
only be eligible complainants if they satisfied DISP 2.7.6R  which details the kind of 
relationships with the respondent  which  the complainants must  have to be eligible.  Reference 
was then made to DISP  2.7.6R(4)  that the complainant  is the beneficiary of, or has a 
beneficial interest in, a personal pension  scheme or stakeholder pension scheme.   
Being the beneficiaries of Mr Gs SIPP,  Mr Gs children therefore, on the face of it, satisfied 
DISP 2.7.6R(4). 
Ref: DRN876288614It disagreed that Mr Gs children did not have any relationship with Pacific (as required by 
DISP 2.7.6R). It said that the individual criteria set out under DISP  2.7.6R were  relationships 
in their own right, e.g. being the beneficiary  of a personal pension scheme  is a relationship. It 
was not, as I had found, that the beneficiary  also had to have a relationship with the 
respondent in addition to being  a beneficiary.
Pacifics advice to Mr G had a direct effect on the beneficiaries and so there was a sufficiently 
close connection  between the beneficiaries  and Pacific for the purposes of DISP 2.7.6R(4). 
Mr Gs estate:
It agreed that Mr Gs complaint would  fall within my jurisdiction and should be upheld. 
If an award could not be made  to Mr Gs children,  then the only fair and reasonable outcome  
is that it should be made to Mr Gs estate. I should make a decision that is fair and 
reasonable, and it submitted that I could make a decision that departed  from the position 
under the law. Whilst the beneficiaries  have no rights under the discretionary trust, in practice, 
because the trustees need to take account of Mr Gs wishes,  they would  be the beneficiaries 
of the trust. It made reference to s229 FSMA which allows me to make directions which  I, 
consider just and appropriate (whether  or not a court could  order those steps to be taken). It 
cannot be right that no award  can be made in this situation.
Pacific made a further submission in response. In summary it said:
The ombudsman  can only make a money award to the complainant.  
The complaint is that Pacifics recommendation was unsuitable and that if suitable advice  had 
been given then Mr G would not have transferred and invested in Harlequin.  Therefore, the 
SIPP wouldnt have  existed. But the estates  representatives submission  is that Ms A and Mr 
B should be compensated as they are the beneficiaries of the SIPP on the basis that the 
transfer to the SIPP would have gone ahead in any event. If that were right then there would  
be no loss as the transfer  would  have gone ahead in any event. 
As to making an award in favour of Mr Gs estate, the estate has not suffered  a loss and the 
ombudsman does not have the power to make  an award in its favour. 
The estates representative refers to making a direction under s229(2)(b) but a direction is not 
an award of compensation or money.
It does  not agree  with the estates submission about Ms A and Mr B being  eligible  
complainants. There has to be a relationship between the beneficiary and the respondent firm 
for the complainant  to be eligible and there was no such relationship  in this case.
 
my provisional  findings
my jurisdiction
I have reviewed this matter  bearing in mind  the submissions I have received. 
the late Mr Gs complaint 
My view is (and I do not believe this has been disputed) that the late Mr G is an eligible complainant 
and this complaint has been brought by the representative of his estate  (Mrs D) who is a person 
authorised by law to do so (DISP 2.7.2R). Simply put, Mr G received regulated advice from Pacific in 
respect of his existing Scottish Equitable  pension, SIPP  and subsequent  investment. The late Mr Gs 
complaint would fall within my jurisdiction. 
Ref: DRN876288615Ms A and Mr Bs complaint
It has been  submitted by Pacific that this is not Ms A and Mr Bs complaint,  it is the late Mr Gs 
complaint. It has said that it was incorrect that Ms A and Mr B have been  joined to the complaint after 
it was originally made by the representative of the late Mr G. 
DISP 3.5.1R:
The Ombudsman will attempt  to resolve  complaints at the earliest possible  stage and by whatever 
means appear to him to be most appropriate, including mediation or investigation . 
Bearing in mind  the wide case  management  powers  conferred by DISP 3.5.1R, I am of the view that it 
is, and was, appropriate in the circumstances  to consolidate the complainants of both the late Mr G 
and Ms A and Mr B as they relate  to the same  factual  circumstances. 
 
Ms A and Mr B have already indicated  their consent to bringing this complaint  (as evidenced by their 
adding their details and signing the complaint form). They are valid complainants on that basis and 
Pacific have had the opportunity of making  submissions about their complaint.  I will be proceeding on 
this basis.
It is important to note that there  has been  an extended period, far in excess  of the eight  week 
response period  set out at DISP 1.6.2 R  that Pacific would have to respond to a complaint,  to make 
representations about the complaint being  made by all the parties. And, indeed,  it has made extensive 
representations about the complaint being  made by the late Mr G, Ms A and Mr B. Pacific has not 
been prejudiced by Ms A and Mr B joining this complaint later in the process rather  than making  a 
separate complaint  of their own. 
are Ms A and Mr B eligible complainants?
I agree that Mr Gs children  were the nominated  beneficiaries of the death benefits  payable  from Mr 
Gs SIPP. 
The issue, however, is whether they were eligible complainants so that they could bring a complaint in 
their own right against  Pacific for its actions  regarding Mr Gs pension.  I provisionally  decided  they 
were not, in a provisional  decision of 2 May 2019.  
However, having reconsidered this issue, I intend to change my decision and will set out why.
DISP 2.7.6R states:
To be an eligible complainant  a person  must also have a complaint  which  arises from matters 
relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
One of the relationships I considered  by which Ms A and Mr B could qualify as eligible complainants  is 
DISP 2.7.6R(4):
the complainant is a beneficiary of, or has a beneficial  interest in, a personal pension 
scheme  or stakeholder pension scheme;
My interpretation of DISP 2.7.6R(4) is that, written as it is in the present tense, at the time the 
complainant made  the complaint they would need to fall within the class described within  DISP 
2.7.6R(4). When Ms A and Mr B made their complaint they were  in receipt  of the funds from the late 
Mr Gs SIPP  discretionary trust (they  had been  paid the death benefits  from the pension). Ms A and 
Mr B were  at the time they made the complaint beneficiaries of a personal pension scheme  (the 
SIPP).   
Ref: DRN876288616But Pacific  submitted that Ms A and Mr B did not have  a relationship in that respect with it (the 
respondent) for the purposes of DISP 2.7.6R.  However, having considered  this matter  again, my view 
is that DISP 2.7.6R(4) does not require that the relationship between the Ms A and Mr B and Pacific  
be direct. 
DISP 2.7.6R(4) identifies  two categories  of possible complainant  -   a complainant  who is (i) a 
beneficiary of  a personal pension scheme and, (ii)or [a complainant who]  has a beneficial interest 
in a personal  pension scheme. The second category  of complainant would duplicate the first if was 
confined to the consumer who dealt directly with the firm (i.e. the late Mr G). The existence of an 
additional second category - identified merely by having a beneficial interest - is such that the DISP 
Rules contemplate that an indirect relationship  with the firm is sufficient. The reference to beneficial 
interests implies  that DISP 2.7.6R(4) contemplated complaints arising from the use of trusts.  
The use of discretionary  trusts  to hold personal  pension funds is a familiar tax mitigation device. Were 
the settlor  of the trust to have received  negligent or erroneous advice, subject to the terms of the trust 
deed, ordinarily the loss would be suffered by the beneficiaries of that trust upon  the death  of the 
settlor. Mr G established a discretionary trust, pursuant to which his SIPP investments were  held and, 
on his death, could be, but were not required  to be, transferred to the beneficiaries of the discretionary 
trust. 
The Montpellier SIPP Supplemental Deed states  the following: 
i. At Clause 7.1(8)(e)  that, for the avoidance of doubt beneficiaries include Members relatives,  
dependants and legal personal  representatives. 
ii. By Clause 7.2, upon the death of Mr G, the trustees shall stand  possessed  of the trust fund and 
the income thereof  upon such  trusts for the benefit of the beneficiaries or any one or more  of them 
exclusive of the others in such shares  and proportions and subject to such  terms and limitations and 
with and subject to provisions for maintenance, education, advancement or benefit  or for 
accumulation of income during minority as the trustees shall from time to time during the specified 
period [defined in Clause 7.1(4) as no longer than two years from the death of death  of Mr G] and 
without infringing  the rule against perpetuities appoint. 
iv. Clause 7.5 provided: In default  of and subject to any such appointment as aforesaid the trustees  
shall on the vesting day stand possessed of the whole  of the trust fund for such  of the beneficiaries 
being individuals then living or any one or more  of them in such  shares  as the trustees  shall prior to or 
on the vesting day determine and in default of such determination for such  of the beneficiaries being 
individuals as shall then be living in equal shares absolutely. 
The Curtis Banks (the company that took over the Montpelier SIPP in 2011) Benefits Guide for the 
SIPP included a section  entitled Benefits on death:
 
 The lump sum can be paid out to a wide range of beneficiaries, including  spouses and partners, 
family members, the beneficiaries under your Will or anyone nominated by you. Pensions can only be 
paid to dependants, or Nominees or their Successors. A dependant is your spouse or civil partner,  a 
child under 23 or someone who is financially, mentally, or physically dependent on you. A Nominee  is 
someone who has been  nominated by you as being eligible to receive income payments  on your 
death. 
The beneficiaries will be decided by ourselves,  taking  account of any nomination you make and all 
other information available (our Expression of Wishes Form allows  you to nominate beneficiaries). We 
are not bound  to follow your nomination but would normally  do so unless there are good reasons not 
to. The lump  sum must be paid out within 2 years of your death, if you die under  75.
As discussed earlier, Ms A and Mr B were allocated  the death benefits  by the trustees of the SIPP 
and received the death  benefits  before  they made their complaint. Therefore they meet  the 
requirements of DISP 2.7.6R(4)  they were beneficiaries of a personal  pension scheme. 
Ref: DRN876288617In terms of the relationship of Ms A and Mr B to Pacific,  DISP 2.7.6R refers to, a complaint which  
arises from matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent  (DISP 
2.6.7R (4) being one of those relationships). 
The term,  matters relevant  to is very broad and is capable of including  both matters arising from the 
acts or omissions of the firm which established, operated or wound  up a personal pension  scheme, 
and matters arising from the acts or omissions  of a firm which gave advice as to a personal pension 
scheme: in both cases, the complaint arises  from matters  relevant to the complainants interest in the 
personal pension scheme. 
Applying the ordinary meaning of relationship also supports this interpretation.  The Oxford  English 
Dictionary defines  relationship as the fact or state of being related and defines related as 
connected. Here, Ms A and Mr B are related to/have a relationship with Pacific because  they are the 
beneficiaries of the SIPP.  
The activities  of firms to which the compulsory jurisdiction relates  are identified in DISP 2.3.1R. DISP 
2.3.1R does  not specify  that the complaint  must  relate to an act or omission  by a firm in carrying on 
activities for a specific complainant: there is no reference to complainants in DISP 2.3.1R. 
So, applying the facts of this case  to DISP 2.7.6R, I believe all of the specific requirements in this 
Rule are satisfied: Ms A and Mr B have  a complaint which arises from matters that are relevant to 
the relationship  set out in DISP 2.7.6(4).
Furthermore, my view is that when Pacific gave Mr G the advice  to transfer for the purposes of 
investing in Harlequin, it had a duty to take into account, when giving that advice, the position  of the 
beneficiaries of the pension. Mr G had nominated as beneficiaries Ms A and Mr B. So Pacific should  
have had in mind the beneficiaries,  and had a duty to take into account the ramifications  of its advice, 
when giving its advice.  
Since White v Jones [1993] 3 WLR 730, common law has recognised  that it is reasonably foreseeable  
that the failure of a solicitor  to prepare a Will as instructed by a client would cause the intended  
beneficiaries financial loss which could not be recompensed by the payment of damages to the 
client's estate.  The acceptance of instructions  to prepare a Will created a special relationship  between  
the solicitor and the intended beneficiaries in respect  of which it was fair, just and reasonable that the 
solicitor should be under a duty of care to the intended beneficiaries. Otherwise there would  be no 
sanction for the solicitor's breach of a duty,  imposed  on him by law, to exercise due professional  skill 
and care in carrying out those instructions. The position of Pacific is directly analogous  to that of the 
solicitor in White v Jones : loss to the beneficiaries of the discretionary trust arising from the firms 
unsuitable financial advice was reasonably foreseeable and it is fair, just and reasonable to permit the 
beneficiaries to claim against the firm upon Mr Gs death. 
I believe Gorham  v British Telecommunications  Plc [2000] 1 WLR  2129 CA is also illustrative  of the 
position. The position at law is that beneficiaries have a cause of action in negligence against an 
adviser for losses suffered as a result of unsuitable advice given to a deceased pension scheme  
member. 
In Gorham the Court of Appeal found that an adviser  owed a duty of care to the beneficiaries because 
it was clear that Mr Gorham  was concerned for his dependants should  he predecease  them and it 
was expected that any advice given  would cover the interests of the dependants. It was normal for the 
issue of the interests of the dependants to arise where  a pension policy was being negotiated. The 
principles set out in White  v Jones  [1995]  2 AC 207 applied to the situation in the Gorham  case. Just 
as a solicitor drafting a Will owed a duty of care to the potential beneficiaries under  the Will, a pension  
adviser owed a duty of care to the potential beneficiaries  under  the pension scheme. 
I think  it is also illustrative to consider provisions that applied before the eligible complainant rules  
were simplified  in 2008. 
Ref: DRN876288618Prior to 6 April 2008, the eligibility  rules allowing beneficiaries of personal  pension schemes  to 
complain to the ombudsman service were included under DISP 2.4. The eligible complainant 
categories were split as follows: (1) customers (DISP 2.4.7R),  (2) potential  customers  (DISP 2.4.8R) 
and (3) indirect  complainants (DISP 2.4.10R). The relevant rule which covers beneficiaries of 
personal pension schemes was included  under the third class of indirect complainant and in particular 
DISP 2.4.10R(2)(b) as a complaint which is derived  from another  person  and which arises  from any 
of the circumstances described in DISP 2.4.12R.
Eligible complainants:  indirect complaints
DISP 2.4.10R  
A person  is an eligible complainant if:
(1) he is not, and has not been, a customer  or potential  customer  of the firm or VJ participant in 
relation to the subject matter  of the complaint;  and
(2) he has a complaint against the firm or VJ participant which either:
(a) arises out of a relationship which  he has with the firm or VJ participant as described in DISP 
2.4.11 R or DISP 2.4.12  R (4); or
(b) is derived from another person and which arises from any of the circumstances  described  in DISP 
2.4.12 R; and
(3) he falls into one of the classes of persons in DISP 2.4.3 R(1).
DISP 2.4.12R      
The circumstances relevant for DISP  2.4.10 R(2)(b)  are:
(1) that the complainant is a beneficiary under a trust or estate of which  the firm or VJ participant is 
trustee or personal  representative;  or
(2) that the complainant is a person for whose  benefit  a contract of insurance was taken out or was 
intended to be taken out; or
(3) that the complainant is a person on whom the legal  right to benefit  from a claim under a contract of 
insurance has been  devolved by contract,  statute  or subrogation  or;
(4) that the complainant is the beneficial  owner of units in a collective investment scheme, and the 
firm or the VJ participant is the operator or depositary of the scheme 
(5) that the complainant is a beneficiary of, or has a beneficial interest in, a personal pension scheme 
or stakeholder  pension scheme.
Members and beneficiaries of personal pensions  could bring complaints to the ombudsman  service  as 
customers  members as direct consumers, and beneficiaries as customers who did not directly  
receive advice but who nonetheless fell within the duty of care owed  by the adviser.   
The eligibility rules were  updated and moved from DISP 2.4 to DISP 2.7 on 6 April 2008.  The drafting 
of DISP 2.7.6R grouped  all the eligible complainant relationships under  one rule in DISP  2.7.6R rather  
than the previous three separate categories of customer, potential  customer  or indirect customer. 
The FSA published a consultation paper (CP06/05) on the regulation of personal  pension  schemes 
and SIPPs  in April 2006  when  the new regulated activity  of establishing, operating and winding-up  a 
Ref: DRN876288619personal pension was created. The consultation  paper is informative  of the regulators  intention  when 
the eligible  complainant category of beneficiaries  of personal pensions or stakeholder pensions was 
first introduced in DISP  2.4.12R(5).
The consultation paper included  section 8 which  discussed complaints and compensation 
arrangements. 
Paragraphs 8.20 and 8.21 of CP06/05 specifically  contemplate complaints being  made against 
advisers as well as the operators of pension  schemes:
8.20 An individual may receive  advice from a firm, for example about whether  he
should join a particular personal pension  scheme. The individual  will be a
customer within DISP  2.4.7R and so will be an eligible  complainant.
8.21 Where an individual takes advice  on the purchase of assets to invest  in a
particular SIPP, the trustees or other operator of the scheme  will buy the
investment. But, as explained earlier,  the member will be acquiring rights  under
the scheme and will be able to complain to the FOS in respect of the advice.
Paragraphs 8.22 and 8.23 go on to explain that a beneficiary who may not be a member of the 
scheme should be eligible to complain to the ombudsman  service:
8.22 Members of a personal pension scheme, or other  beneficiaries under the scheme,
need to be able to complain  to the FOS about the activities of persons carrying
on the new regulated activity, and in particular  those operating or winding up
the scheme. An example  of a beneficiary  who may not be a member of the
scheme would  be the widow or widower of a deceased member who might be
eligible for benefits  under the scheme on the death of their spouse.
8.23 These members and beneficiaries will be able to complain to the FOS as eligible
complainants if they are customers within  DISP 2.4.7R or have an indirect
customer relationship  under  DISP 2.4.10R-2.4.12R. We propose  to amend  DISP
to make it clear that these members and beneficiaries  can be eligible
complainants. We propose a similar change for stakeholder pension schemes.
The consultation paper therefore demonstrates the regulators intention  that members  and 
beneficiaries of personal pension schemes should  be entitled  to bring  complaints against those  who 
have provided advice in respect of those schemes.
The FSA consultation paper  from 2008 (CP07/14) confirms that simplification of the eligibility rules in 
DISP 2.4 as re-drafted in DISP 2.7.6R was not intended as a substantive change  to the categories of 
eligible complainants.  Beneficiaries of personal pension  schemes  were  always intended to be eligible 
to complain about advice given  to the pension  scheme  member  either  as customers or as indirect 
complainants notwithstanding the removal  of the separate category of indirect complainant  in the new 
drafting of the rules. 
GEN 2.2.1R of the FCA Handbook sets out that the Rules must be interpreted in light of their purpose. 
In this case  I believe  that the likely purpose of DISP 2.6.7R  was to permit beneficiaries or those who 
have a beneficial interest  in a personal pension  scheme to complain about the advice  given to set up 
that scheme  here to Mr G to set up the SIPP  and transfer to it.
Consequently I believe Ms A and Mr B are eligible complainants. 
my findings as to the merits of the complaint 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN876288620the late Mr Gs complaint
I considered the late Mr Gs complaint previously in a provisional decision and thought it should  be 
upheld. However, it was subsequently submitted that, even  if his complaint were upheld,  he (and 
therefore his estate) has not suffered a financial loss. This is because the loss is the difference  in 
death benefits  between  that provided on death by the SIPP and that by the previous scheme. And 
those death benefits would not have  been paid to the estate.
I remain minded to agree. The death benefits would  not have been payable to Mr Gs estate. The 
pension benefits  under either the SIPP  or the previous  scheme  are held under discretionary trust.  The 
trustees are the pension administrators and whilst Mr G can indicate  to whom he would like any death 
benefits paid, the trustees are not bound by this and can pay the death  benefits  to whosoever  they 
wish. The death benefits  are also paid outside  Mr Gs estate (the reason they are not liable to 
inheritance tax), so would have not have fallen within that estate.  So the late Mr Gs estate cannot 
have suffered a loss because  the death benefits payable under the previous scheme would not have 
fallen to his estate.  
So, I do not believe I could make an award to the late Mr Gs estate.
In summary, Mr Gs complaint would  fall within  my jurisdiction.  However, factually Mr Gs estate did 
not suffer  a loss as a result  of Pacifics advice. My view is that loss has not been caused to Mr Gs 
estate so I should not make an award  to it. 
the merits of Ms A and Mr Bs complaint
As my view is that Ms A and Mr B are eligible complainants, I have gone on to consider the merits of 
their complaint. To confirm, they have previously joined the complaint  as set out at the beginning of 
this decision  that is, that the advice  provided  by Pacific to transfer the existing pension, create the 
SIPP and then subsequently invest in Harlequin  was unsuitable  for the late Mr G. And, being  
beneficiaries of the SIPP,  they have been caused loss as a result. 
I considered the suitability of the transfer and subsequent investment in a provisional  decision of 24 
May 2017. The same  matters discussed in that decision are relevant to Ms As and Mr Bs complaint  
and I will set them out in this decision.
Mr G was advised  by Pacific  to set up a SIPP in 2009. A transfer of an existing  personal pension was 
made into that SIPP and Mr G subsequently invested into a Harlequin overseas property scheme  an 
offshore unregulated property investment.  
It was submitted that there was no suitability assessment or risk assessment of the Harlequin 
investment carried out by Pacific.  It  was submitted that the advice Mr G received was not suitable  
and, in any event, over-exposed Mr G to this type of investment. It was submitted that the benefits  of 
the scheme Mr G transferred  from were  not replaced by the advised scheme. Alerts issued by the 
industry regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) were highlighted. 
Pacific did not uphold the complaint. In the main it said that it only gave advice on a suitable  SIPP 
wrapper with which Mr G could invest  in Harlequin. It said it did not give advice as to whether he 
should transfer to such a scheme and did not give advice on the Harlequin investment. Mr G did not 
seek that advice. It confirmed  it was not providing advice  in its Suitability Report.  
It could limit its advice to recommendation of a suitable SIPP alone  because the COBS rules  allowed 
the scope of advice to be restricted. It was made clear to Mr G that Pacific was not advising on 
Harlequin and it was his own decision to invest. It set out some of the risks of what  he was doing. 
Ref: DRN876288621It said it did not introduce Mr G to Harlequin  and he had already made a decision to invest in 
Harlequin before approaching  Pacific. Even if it had advised him not to transfer he would have  done 
so anyway. 
the scope of the advice
Pacific has said that it limited the scope  of its advice  to recommending a SIPP which would enable Mr 
G to make the investment he wished  to. It made it clear to him that it was not advising on the 
Harlequin investment or the pension transfer itself. I agree there are warnings  in the Suitability Report  
to that effect.  
I have also taken  into account the submissions by Pacific about the COBS rules allowing it to restrict 
its advice and its comments,  including  its reference to case law, about its retainer with Mr G  the 
scope of which was only to advise on the SIPP  wrapper.  
Pacific had a duty under the relevant rules,  in particular  COBS 2 and COBS 9, set out by the FCA, to 
act in Mr Gs best interests, know  its client and give suitable advice. In my view it could not so without 
taking account of the investment which the SIPP  was put into place  to facilitate.  The only reason for 
creation of the SIPP and the transfer  was to enable the Harlequin investment to take place   Pacific 
knew this and that is recorded in the documents completed at the time.  
In order  to give suitable advice under COBS 9 Pacific would therefore  have to take into account the 
investment itself, for which the SIPP  was created  and was the reason for the whole arrangement 
going ahead. The SIPP  advice cannot be artificially separated from the investment to follow as 
suggested by Pacific. 
I note Pacifics submissions  about  limiting the scope of its advice, informing Mr G of that and its 
retainer with him. I agree there might be circumstances  where it is appropriate to limit the scope of 
advice and where  that would not necessarily conflict with a businesss  obligations to act in the best 
interests of its client  and provide suitable advice. But those  circumstances do not exist here. It was 
not possible to provide suitable advice and act in Mr Gs best interests in a situation where Pacific 
knew the destination of the funds and the investment and the SIPP were  clearly linked. If Pacific felt 
that it could not give advice on the investment then it should  have declined  to give any advice at all.   
My view is not dependent on comments made by the industry regulator, the FCA,  as to the type of 
process Pacific carried  out to facilitate  the investment. I take an independent  view based on the 
circumstances of the complaint and take into account  the rules, law and good  practice in place at the 
time to arrive at decision  that is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. But my view is consistent  
with general  comments from the FCA about this type of process  that consideration should  be given 
when advice is given  to transfer a SIPP,  to the suitability  of the overall proposition  both the SIPP 
and the investment to be taken out. 
I do not agree with the interpretation Pacific has put on the FCAs comments  that this only applies 
where the adviser has given formal advice about the investment itself. It refers directly  to the situation 
here  where advice is being given about a SIPP to invest in overseas property.  It said that where an 
adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will sell current investments to fund overseas 
property then the suitability of that investment  must  be taken into account.   
I do not agree that simply because  the FCAs alerts were given after Pacific gave its advice that they 
are irrelevant  all the alerts did was highlight  the existing  obligations (which applied  at the time this 
advice was given) when giving advice such as this. It was not setting  out new standards  for 
businesses to follow.     
I also do not agree that Pacific did not give any advice  on the pension transfer itself. It said in its 
Suitability Report that: 
Ref: DRN876288622Your existing Personal  pension policies with Scottish Equitable will be cancelled  as a result of 
transferring to the SIPP plan.  I have  detailed the pros and cons  of transferring your existing 
arrangements and the reasons why the transfer was recommended in line with your objectives and 
preferences for Self Investment.
It later discusses in some  detail the benefits of the SIPP,  recommending the SIPP to Mr G. However I 
have not seen  any contrasting of the benefits of Mr Gs existing pension  with the SIPP.  
the suitability of the advice  
Having decided that Pacific  needed to take into account the suitability of the investment the SIPP was 
set up to facilitate,  I have  then considered the advice  Mr G was given. 
The details recorded  on the fact find were that Mr G was an accountant,  earning  £55,000 (although 
this was recorded as £50,000 on the Suitability  Report) a year. He already  held another  overseas  
property. His savings or other  investments are not recorded. He is recorded as having a pension 
scheme with a value of £43.000. It is noted that, client understands property  investment and would 
like to invest in this manner with pension  fund. 
In terms of attitude to investment risk, Mr G is recorded  as 3 on a scale of 1 to 4 on Pacifics fact find. 
This is designated Balanced with the description: You are prepared to invest in equity based assets, 
where the risk is spread across a variety of investments and the fund is managed  on your behalf,  with 
the aim of potentially  higher returns.
The risk profiler in the same document confirms this grading. I will not go through each of the 
answers Mr G gave for Pacific to classify  him as such but the answers do not indicate  high risk 
investing would be acceptable and in particular  Mr G indicated  a preference  for an investment which  
fell in the middle or the risk spectrum  i.e. appreciable  but limited volatility. 
In the Suitability Report Mr Gs attitude to risk is stated to be:
You prefer to invest in volatile  investments for the potential  for very significant growth
of your investments.  In doing so, you understand that you risk losing  your capital.
This does not reflect the risk tolerance or assessment in the fact find which suggests  Mr Gs risk 
tolerance is significantly  lower than this. It seems  his risk attitude has been increased in the Suitability  
Report. 
It does not seem to be disputed that Mr G approached Pacific with a Harlequin  investment already in 
mind. The Suitability Report sets out that Mr G wished  to use his pension fund for that purpose. It is 
however clear that the adviser  knew the destination of the funds was for Harlequin purposes and the 
whole reason  for the transfer of pension  benefits to the SIPP was for that purpose. 
The Harlequin  investment was an off plan  unregulated speculative overseas  property investment. It 
was high risk and the investor faced  the real possibility of losing all their money. I believe it is clear  
that Mr Gs risk tolerance does not indicate he was suitable to that level of risk. None of the answers 
or gradings in the fact find indicate that he was prepared to lose all his money or that he was suitable 
to the high level of risk this investment presented.
Mr Gs investment experience was also limited and does not suggest that he was an experienced 
investor who could appreciate all the risks of what he was doing or that he would not be reliant on 
Pacific to give him suitable  advice or consider his best interests. Although accurate detail of his 
investments at the time the SIPP was taken out is not available, at the time of his death  the 
representatives of Mr G said he had bank and building  society accounts of £18,000,  UK Government 
and municipal  securities of £2,500 and an apartment in Cyprus valued  at £62,500. This does not 
indicate a sophisticated or experienced investor. 
Ref: DRN876288623Although Mr G did have an overseas property, I am not persuaded that this indicates the Harlequin 
investment was suitable  or he was given suitable advice, especially when  the fact that Mr G was 
investing all his pension  in it is taken  into account. 
The value of Mr Gs pension was relatively modest at about £50,000. It is indicated that he would face 
approaching a 10% reduction in that value on transferring  his pension  so he was also incurring a 
penalty. There  would also be charges for setting up the SIPP and administering it. The material  issue 
is that all of that money was designated  for investing in Harlequin. It would be questionable  in any 
event whether the entire value of a pension should  be invested in one particular asset  because  of 
the lack of any diversification.  But here all the money was invested in one overseas unregulated high 
risk asset.  That was not suitable advice and it was not suitable to recommend the transfer and setting  
up of this SIPP on this basis.   
Although this would not affect my overall decision, it is also worthy of note, as discussed  previously, 
that Mr G was not given a balanced assessment  of the benefits and disadvantages of the transfer 
itself. This did not allow Mr G to proceed on a fully informed basis.  
did Pacific cause  Ms As and Mr Bs loss?
Mr G was an accountant. He was not a financial  adviser. He had one overseas  property. Whilst I am 
sure he was a professional  in his field that does not mean he was aware of all the risks of the 
Harlequin investment.  
If Pacific had advised  Mr G that he should  not transfer or invest in Harlequin  I think it more  likely that 
he would have taken  account of that advice  and it would have been  persuasive, coming  from a 
professional regulated financial adviser. I think it is more  likely  that he would not have invested and 
this advice  would have changed his motivation to invest in Harlequin. 
I do not agree that Harlequin issuing  a purchase contract meant that Mr G was committed to invest at 
the point he met with Pacific.  I understand he only signed that contract  to invest  after meeting  with 
Pacific (it is dated 11 November 2009). If Pacific had advised against Mr G proceeding  with the 
transfer and investment I think it is likely  he would not have gone ahead.  
It follows that he would not have transferred, nor needed to have transferred, his pension to the SIPP.  
So neither the SIPP nor the investment would have taken place  but for Pacifics recommendation.  
Consequently any reduction in the death benefits payable to Ms A and Mr B through  transferring  to 
the SIPP  and investing  in Harlequin has been caused by Pacifics advice.    
Im aware that a party involved with Harlequin  Property had been charged with fraud offences. A court  
might therefore conclude that the beneficiaries loss doesnt flow directly from Pacifics unsuitable 
advice. And on this basis, a court might not require Pacific to compensate the beneficiaries  
notwithstanding the clearly unsuitable advice. 
But in assessing fair compensation, Im not limited to the position  a court  might take.
It may be there has been a break  in the chain of causation. That might mean it wouldnt be fair to 
say that all of the losses suffered flowed  from the unsuitable  advice. That will depend on the particular 
circumstances of the case. No liability  will arise for an adviser who has given suitable advice even if 
fraud later takes  place. But the position is different where  the consumer wouldnt have been in the 
investment in the first place without the unsuitable advice. In that situation, it may be fair to assess 
compensation on our usual  basis  aiming to put the consumers in the position they would have been 
in if theyd  been given  suitable advice.
Ref: DRN876288624In this particular case, I conclude  that it would be fair and reasonable to make an award, given  the 
specific circumstances. This is notwithstanding  arguments about  a break  in the chain of causation  
and the remoteness  of the loss from the (poor)  advice given. I am satisfied that Mr G would  not have 
made the Harlequin Property investment had it not been for the failings of Pacific. If the adviser had 
given Mr G suitable  advice, the Harlequin  Property investment would not have been made. And I 
consider that the advice  given  by the adviser completely disregarded Mr Gs interests.  As a direct 
result of the advisers failure to give suitable advice, Mr G invested his pension into a specialised,  
unregulated investment  with a limited  track record.  
So I think that its fair and reasonable to hold Pacific responsible for the whole of the loss suffered  by 
Mr Gs beneficiaries. I am not asking  Pacific to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences 
of its failings. I am satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That 
other parties might also be responsible  for that same loss is a distinct matter,  which I am not able to 
determine. However,  that fact should not impact on the beneficiaries right to compensation from 
Pacific for the full amount  of the loss.
I remain of the view that the transfer of the pension  and the subsequent  investment in Harlequin was 
unsuitable for Mr G. Pacific arranged the SIPP in the knowledge  the intention was to invest in 
Harlequin but, contrary to its duty to act in Mr Gs best interests, undertook that without providing 
advice as to the suitability of that investment.  If it had done  so then Mr G should have been advised it 
was not suitable for him. If, as is submitted, Pacific had declined to give any advice at all as to the 
SIPP or Harlequin because it could not give advice  on Harlequin (it having recognised correctly  that it 
could not provide  advice on the SIPP without taking  into account the investment it knew was to be 
made), then the transfer would simply not have proceeded. 
Mr G proceeding with the Harlequin investment enabled by Pacific is not evidence  he would have 
invested in Harlequin in any event. He did so in the clear absence of Pacific acting in his best 
interests by advising as to the Harlequin investment.  Either Pacific should not have enabled the 
transfer or, for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision of 24 May 2017, it should  have advised 
Mr G that the investment was not suitable  for him. Either way, the transfer and investment would not 
have taken place. 
fair compensation
In my provisional decision of 24 May 2017 I set out that it was more  likely in my view that Mr G would 
not have transferred his pension from Scottish Equitable to the SIPP and invested in Harlequin  if 
correctly advised. So, it would be fair to calculate redress on the basis of that transfer not occurring 
and the death benefits that would have otherwise been paid to Ms A and Mr B. 
Pacific has said that Ms A and Mr B would not have been the beneficiaries of that scheme  and I 
believe it has put this forward  on the basis that they were  not the nominated beneficiaries of the 
existing Scottish Equitable  pension. I believe  it is correct that they were  not the nominated 
beneficiaries at the point of pension transfer.  But the material  issue is not who the nominated 
beneficiaries were when the pension  was transferred but who more likely would be the nominated 
beneficiaries at the date of Mr Gs death. The redress (and fair redress)  does not seek  to make an 
award based  on the situation applying at the date of transfer, it seeks  to make an award  on the basis 
of what  would  be the financial situation at the date of Mr Gs death on the basis he had not transferred 
and made  the investment. It is not a case of re-creating  the Scottish  Equitable pension but 
calculating what loss has been caused to the pension  benefits now as compared  with what  would 
have been the situation has the pension  not been transferred. 
Before Scottish Equitable pension  was transferred the nominated beneficiary was Mr Gs (then)  wife. 
When the SIPP  was created  Mr G chose  to nominate Ms A and Mr B as the beneficiaries of his SIPP. 
So his wishes regarding who should benefit on his death had changed. It is notable that in 2009 Mr G 
chose to formally exclude his (then) ex-wife  from being a beneficiary  of his Will. 
Ref: DRN876288625Given the evidence I therefore believe  it is more  likely on the balance  of probabilities that if Mr Gs 
pension had not been transferred then he would have similarly changed nominated beneficiaries re 
his Scottish Equitable pension. It follows that on his death  the death benefits would have been paid to 
Ms A and Mr B as the nominated beneficiaries. I recognise that the trustees  of the Scottish  Equitable 
pension have  discretion as to how to pay the death benefits  they do not have to pay them to the 
nominated beneficiaries. 
But I think it is highly unlikely that they would not have paid the death benefits to Ms A and Mr B 
bearing in mind they are the late Mr Gs children  I have not seen any persuasive  reason or evidence  
that they would not have done so. It is worthy of note that the trustees  of the SIPP paid the death  
benefits to Ms A and Mr B.
My understanding is that the death benefits from the SIPP have now been paid and the SIPP no 
longer exists. If this is not the case then the parties should let me know.  
I believe the following redress is fair in the circumstances: 
Pacific should  pay the sum of (C + D), where:
E.The death  benefit that would have been paid from Mr Gs previous Scottish Equitable pension 
plan, as at the date of his death,  if it had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
F.The death  benefit paid from Mr Gs SIPP. 
G.(A  B)
H.Interest on the amount calculated  in C at 8% simple per annum gross from the date the SIPP 
death benefit was paid until the date of my final decision.  
In addition, Pacific should pay Ms A and Mr B £300 for the significant inconvenience and upset  the 
events this complaint relates to have  caused.
In respect of A Pacific should ask Mr G's former pension  provider to calculate the death benefit that 
would have been paid had he not transferred his pension  but instead remained invested. If there are 
any difficulties in obtaining that value  then the increase or decrease in the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total  Return Index should be applied to the sum transferred from the Scottish Equitable 
pension from the date it was transferred to the date of death. That is a reasonable proxy  for the type 
of return  that could have been achieved if suitable funds had been  chosen.
The interest  applied in D is to compensate Ms A and Mr B for being  kept out of the loss sum money 
from the date they received the SIPP death benefits to the date of my final decision.  
my provisional  decision
The late Mr G is an eligible complainant.  However,  his estate has not suffered a financial loss and so 
I could not make  an award. 
Mr Gs children are eligible  complainants. I believe  their complaint would fall within my jurisdiction.  I 
also believe  the complaint should be upheld. 
I currently intend to uphold the complaint  and order Pacific IFA Limited to calculate  and pay redress 
as set out above. If that award is not paid within  28 days of my final decision then 8% simple interest 
per annum gross  will be payable  on the loss calculated  from the date of my final decision until the 
date the award is paid.  
Ref: DRN876288626Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pacific  deducts  income tax from the interest  it 
should tell Ms A and Mr B how much  has been taken off. Pacific should  give Ms A and Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
I would like to make  it clear that I now intend  to issue a final decision, after taking into account any 
further submissions  in response to this provisional decision. Therefore  the parties should  now make 
any final submissions they wish to be considered in response to this provisional  decision.  
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8762886