K820x#14Complaint
Mrs I says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI/).
Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Background
In May 1991  Mrs I took out a store card. In August  1995 PPI was added to her account 
following a telephone call. 
The policy cost no more  than £1.00  per £100 Mrs I owed  on her store card and it protected  
Mrs Is store  card monthly repayments  if she couldnt work because  of an accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mrs I disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Is complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
But that is understandable as it was such a long time ago. So I dont know  what  it may have 
said to Mrs I when the policy was sold. But based  on what  this service knows about the 
sales process, and given that PPI was added some  time after shed made her store  card 
application and had the account, I think there  was most likely a conversation  about  PPI and 
Mrs I wouldve been aware  that the policy was optional. 
It was up to FICL to provide Mrs I with clear  information about  the policy so she could decide 
if she wanted to take it out. Mrs I was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look as if she was 
affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Mrs I says she received good sick pay from her employer  if she was unable  to work because  
of an accident  or sickness and didnt need the PPI. 
The PPI policy would  have paid out a benefit  if Mrs I couldnt work  as a result  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would have covered 15% of what Mrs I owed  on the card at 
the point of claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount  each  month until      
Mrs I returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared. It would have also paid 
out on top of Mrs Is sick pay, and for longer than she would have received full sick pay. This 
could have been a useful  benefit at whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mrs I needed 
to claim.
Ref: DRN89410912I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs I to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Mrs I had properly understood the 
cost and benefit provided she still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mrs I  and Im satisfied that its 
likely she took it out when she didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mrs I off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mrs I all the information it should have done when it 
sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs I has lost out as a result  of anything that FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8941091