K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Yorkshire Bank) treated them 
unfairly when it declined their application to port their mortgage  and take out additional 
borrowing. They borrowed  from another provider and paid an early  repayment charge 
(ERC), which  theyd  like refunded.
 
background
Mrs F took out an interest  only mortgage with Yorkshire in 2011.  She took out a five year 
fixed rate product in 2016. 
Mr and Mrs F got married and they decided to move home.  In April 2018 Mrs F contacted  
Yorkshire Bank. She asked if shed have to pay the ERC if she moved home.  Yorkshire 
Bank said porting  was an option and she could apply  online for an agreement  in principle. 
After receiving an agreement in principle for a mortgage of £292,000, Mr and Mrs F went  
ahead with their plans: they put Mrs Fs property on the market and looked  for a property to 
buy. Mrs F accepted an offer for her property  in early June and Mr and Mrs F made  an offer 
for a property on 13 June  2018.
Mr and Mrs F spoke  to Yorkshire Banks  mortgage adviser on 15 June  2018.  The adviser 
recommended a repayment mortgage  in joint names of £290,000.  A key facts  illustration  and 
suitability letter were  issued on 21 June 2018. Mr and Mrs Fs application was declined the 
following day, due to concerns about  their unsecured debts. 
Mr and Mrs F say by this point theyd incurred  costs related to their house move and didnt 
want to lose their sale and purchase. So they took out a mortgage with another  provider. 
They say it was unfair for Yorkshire to apply the ERC.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Yorkshire 
Bank had to assess whether the mortgage  was affordable. The agreement in principle isnt 
binding and Mr and Mrs F were told it was subject to further  checks. When  Yorkshire  Bank 
looked into Mr and Mrs Fs application  it found a number of unsecured debts and wasnt  able 
to offer them the mortgage they wanted.  
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree. Mrs F said they were honest from the start about their income  
and outgoings.  She said it was unfair  for Yorkshire to change  its mind after issuing the AIP, 
when theyd incurred  costs. She feels  the AIP is misleading. And she also questioned how 
the amount Yorkshire Bank said it would lend could change so much  between the AIP and 
its later offer.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before offering a mortgage, Yorkshire  Bank has to make a detailed assessment as to 
whether the loan is affordable and will continue to be affordable. Here, Mrs F wanted to port 
her mortgage to a new property. She also wanted Mr F to be added  to the mortgage and to 
take out additional borrowing  increasing the loan from £137,000 to £290,000. 
Ref: DRN84847012Mr and Mrs F received an AIP in April 2018  which said, based on the information  provided, 
Yorkshire may be able to lend up to a maximum of £295,000. Mrs F says they were honest 
about their income  and outgoings and I understand they were hopeful that Yorkshire would 
offer them the mortgage they wanted. But I dont think its reasonable to say that Yorkshire 
Bank misled them about this.
The AIP says that Yorkshire  isnt obliged to lend; its lending decision depends on 
affordability and Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances and credit score, as well as the suitability of 
the property. The AIP says the next step is to book a mortgage appointment. 
Mr and Mrs F say they were misled  by the AIP. They thought  the mortgage appointment and 
application would be a formality. On this basis, they instructed solicitors and incurred estate 
agents fees. Mrs F says if theyd  known Yorkshire  wouldnt have offered the amount they 
needed they would have  stayed where they were. I know Mr and Mrs F will be disappointed, 
but I dont agree. I think the AIP was clear that it wasnt an offer or promise  to lend. 
Yorkshire Bank declined  Mr and Mrs Fs application  because of concerns about  their 
unsecured debts. It was about a week after their mortgage appointment when they were told 
their application  was declined. I dont think that Yorkshire Bank  caused  any unreasonable 
delays in assessing Mr and Mrs Fs application.
Mr and Mrs F say that Yorkshire Bank  was acting  in its own interests  as it would benefit from 
the borrowing  being on a capital repayment basis or from the ERC. I think Yorkshire Bank 
was right to consider whether  the borrowing Mr and Mrs F applied for  which  was 
significantly more than Mrs Fs existing mortgage  was affordable  on an ongoing basis. It 
wasnt prepared to lend the amount they wanted to borrow due to concerns about their 
unsecured debts. 
The fact find includes an explanation from Mr and Mrs F about why their unsecured debts 
had increased  over recent years. They  expected  their financial circumstances to improve.  
But when they made their porting application, Mr and Mrs F had unsecured debts  of about 
£100,000. They intended to repay some of this, but nearly £90,000 would have been 
outstanding after they took out the mortgage. So while monthly repayments might have 
appeared affordable when they entered information for the AIP, Yorkshire Bank was also 
concerned about  the amount of their unsecured debts and the way it increased over the 
previous two years.
Mr and Mrs F had incurred costs related to their sale and purchase before  Yorkshire  made 
its lending decision.  I appreciate they didnt want to lose the money theyd spent. But it was 
their decision  to incur these costs before they had a mortgage offer.  And it was their decision 
to continue with the sale and purchase  after they knew they wouldnt be able to port Mrs Fs 
mortgage.
From what  Mrs F has said, they didnt need  to move home urgently. So, if theyd wanted to 
avoid paying the ERC,  they could  have chosen to stay where  they were or look to port the 
mortgage once  their debts  had reduced  and their financial situation had improved.
The mortgage product which Mrs F took out in 2016 included an ERC. This is clearly  set out 
in the mortgage offer and Mrs F agreed  to it when  she took out the product. As she repaid 
the mortgage during the term of the product, I think Yorkshire was entitled to ask her to pay 
the ERC.
Ref: DRN84847013Yorkshire Bank said it would consider moving  the existing loan (of £137,000) into joint 
names and converting  it to a capital and interest repayment basis.  Mrs F questioned why 
Yorkshire would  offer this amount. I think it referred to this amount because this is what  she 
already owed. Yorkshire was simply confirming it would consider an application to add Mr F 
to the account  and change the repayment  basis.
Mrs F also says Yorkshire hasnt said whether they were  discriminated against due to Mr Fs 
age. However, Yorkshire has said that its concerns related to the unsecured debts.
Mrs F says Yorkshire took too long to respond  when she made a complaint about its 
decision. When Yorkshire Bank did respond it confirmed its decision not to lend. Mrs F says 
they applied to another lender on 22 June 2018 and it seems this application proceeded 
smoothly. So, while Mrs F would have preferred Yorkshire Bank  to respond more quickly, I 
dont think this made any difference to the outcome here.
I dont think, in the circumstances,  its fair and reasonable  to require Yorkshire Bank  to 
refund the ERC. I dont  think  Yorkshire Bank  is responsible  for Mr and Mrs F deciding to 
incur costs before they had a mortgage offer, so I wont  require it to pay compensation for 
this.
Mr and Mrs F say the industry practice  of issuing  decisions  in principle should be reviewed. 
We offer an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator  and dont have  the 
powers of a regulator. As our investigator  has explained, this is a matter  better referred  to 
the regulator (the Financial Conduct  Authority).  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020. 
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8484701