K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1993 
alongside a mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say Santander  UK PLC,  National & Provincial Building 
Society at the time, mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say that they werent  told the policy was optional and they were led to believe 
it was part of the package. But based  on the evidence Ive seen I think  Santander made  it 
clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  
although I can understand why they cant remember this. I say this having  seen a copy  of Mr 
and Mrs Cs mortgage application form. In this there is a section for PPI where  an N has 
been entered in all the options for the cover. But the N has been crossed  out in two places 
and replaced with a handwritten Y  to agree to accident, sickness  and redundancy cover  
for both Mr and Mrs C. So while  it looks like cover was initially declined,  I think  its likely that 
Mr and Mrs C changed their minds and decided that they did want  the cover before  the 
mortgage was agreed.  
So I think Mr and Mrs C wouldve  known they had a choice about the PPI. Even though Mr 
and Mrs C say that the application form was completed for them,  I think  its likely they would 
have read its contents before signing to agree to it. Mr and Mrs C also saw and signed a 
separate PPI application form - so I think they made a choice to take out this type of cover   
knowing they didnt  have to. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Mr and Mrs C say they were both entitled  to sick pay and redundancy pay from their 
employers  so the policy wasnt suitable  for them. But upon a successful  claim the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 24 months, on top of their sick pay and redundancy pay. So they 
couldve used these  funds  for other expenses if they found themselves in the unfortunate 
situation where one, or both, of them were  unable to work. The mortgage is also likely  to 
have been their most significant financial commitment, secured against their home, and 
having the PPI in place  provided them with some  additional financial security.  So I still think 
the PPI was suitable for them.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN82631982Mr and Mrs C say they are not happy  that none  of the commission  they paid on their 
premiums will be refunded.  So Ive thought  about the amount of commission Mr and Mrs C 
paid on their PPI  and whether Santander treated  them unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. And this includes the premiums which were paid before it took 
over National  & Provincial Building  Society.  Weve looked at how Santander has been 
working this out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs 
commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont  think  it needed 
to tell them about the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them  unfairly. This 
means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs C back  any of the commission  they paid for the 
PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs C have said including  what theyve said about  their 
endowment mortgage  claim being upheld - so they say they were incorrectly  advised  at the 
time and their PPI complaint should also be upheld. However, as Ive outlined above,  I dont 
think Santander did anything wrong by advising them to take out the PPI and I dont think the 
PPI was mis-sold. So this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8263198