K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the termination  of an agreement with Secure Trust Bank plc (trading 
as Moneyway). 
background
In July 2014 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
Moneyway. The agreement was for £19,033.30 payable  over 60 months with monthly 
payments of £310.30  and a final payment of £415.30.
In December 2018 Mr M received a letter from Moneyway advising him that his account  had 
been terminated and that the car would be repossessed.
Mr M contacted Moneyway and asked to set up a payment arrangement. Moneyway 
refused. It said that Mr M had broken payment  arrangements in the past and it wasnt willing  
to set up a new one.
Mr M complained to Moneyway. In response, Moneyway  said that although  a number of 
informal payment arrangements had been  put in place for Mr M in the past, these hadnt 
been maintained and it wouldnt enter into any further arrangements. It advised Mr M of its 
intention to issue court proceedings for the return  of the car. As an alternative it offered Mr M 
the option to settle the account with a 10% reduction to the current  balance.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response  so he complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said the history of Mr Ms account  showed 
that he had been unable  to maintain  regular  payments and that Moneyway hadnt acted 
unfairly in the circumstances.
Mr M didnt  agree. He accepted that hed missed payments  but said hed always brought  his 
account up to date. He felt hed been treated unfairly  because hed only got 6 months  left to 
run on the agreement and hed made an offer to pay which he thought was reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the history of Mr Ms account including details  of when payments were due 
and when they were  paid.  Ive also looked at the letters and notices  which were sent to Mr 
M by Moneyway relating  to the account.
Mr M has explained that he missed his monthly  payments  in October 2017 and November 
2018 because  he had to pay for repairs to his car. He accepts that hes missed payments in 
the past as well but says hes always brought his account back  up to date.
Moneyway has said that Mr Ms account  has been  in arrears for considerable portions of the 
agreement. It says it agreed a number of payments arrangements with Mr M in the past but 
in most cases these werent  kept to.
Ref: DRN82001852I understand why Mr M is unhappy about Moneyways decision to repossess the car. Hes 
explained that he made an offer to clear the arrears and pay two months upfront but says 
that Moneyway  refused.
Although Mr M made an offer which he feels is reasonable, theres no obligation  on 
Moneyway to agree a payment arrangement just because it has done this in the past.  
Looking at the history  of the account, I can see that Mr M has missed a number  of payments 
over the term of the agreement. I can also see that Moneyway issued a default  notice in 
January 2017  and a notice of overdue account  in March 2017. There were arrears  on the 
account at the time. I can see that a payment arrangement was set up but this was 
subsequently broken.  This happened  again in September 2017. I can see a similar pattern of 
events in 2018.
Because of the way in which the account has been  conducted, I dont think  Moneyway has 
acted unfairly in refusing to enter into another payment arrangement with Mr M. Against a 
background of late and missed payments over a significant portion of the agreement  I cant  
say that Moneyways decision to terminate the agreement was unreasonable.  As Ive said, 
Moneyway isnt under any obligation to agree  a payment arrangement.
I understand that Mr M is frustrated because his agreement didnt have many more  months  
to run. But taking  all of the circumstances into account, I dont think  Moneyway acted 
unfairly. It offered Mr M the option to settle  the account at a 10% discount which  I think  was 
fair.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8200185