K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy with the level of service they received from Union 
Reiseversicherung AG when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision. Ive attached  a copy  
and it forms part of this my final decision. 
In summary,  I said that I was intending to uphold  this complaint and award £2000 
compensation to Mr and Mrs O for the poor service they received during their claim for 
emergency assistance. 
Mr O fell whilst abroad.  I explained  that I thought there were  delays in arranging private 
nursing care and repatriating Mr O. I also thought there were failings in the customer service 
provided. I asked URV and Mr and Mrs O to let me know  if they had anything  further  to add. 
URV didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision, despite an extension being granted  at their 
request. 
Mr and Mrs O added further  comments. In summary  they said: 
The delay in arranging  the private  nurse  saved URV  a lot of money  and more  than 
the £2000  I was awarding 
They werent told that cover was verified
They were considering instructing lawyers
An expenses form was never submitted because URV never  provided  one
Mr Os need for further treatment  and surgery was as a result  of URVs inaction 
URV changed the fit to fly certificate 
For two weeks Mr O was washed, fed and toileted by his family 24 hours per day, 7 
days per week
Mrs O and Mr Os son had to deal with this on top of their own health issues
 
Mr O was forcibly  catheterised by the hospital  
The compensation of £2000 is inadequate  given the loss of dignity and the overall 
impact on Mr O. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80177532I have taken into account the further points raised  by Mr and Mrs O but they havent 
changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this case.  I say that because:  
Ive seen an email dated  the 25 July which confirms that cover was verified
In awarding a total of £2000 compensation Ive taken into account the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr and Mrs O, as they are named on the policy. I cant take into 
account their sons distress and inconvenience  as he isnt party  to the contract  of 
insurance
As our investigator explained if Mr and Mrs O accept  my final decision then they 
wont be able to pursue this matter in court
I havent seen  medical  evidence which confirms  that Mr Os long-term  health  was 
impacted by URVs actions 
The conduct of the hospital isnt URVs responsibility  so I cant  say that they are 
responsible for the decision to forcibly catheterise Mr O, although I entirely 
understand how distressing that must have been  for him
Ive not seen evidence URV changed  the fit to fly note from the treating hospital. 
However, I can see that the treating  doctor said in the original  document  that a 
stretcher was needed.  This caused  confusion with the airline who refused to accept  
Mr O as a seated  passenger. However, as I noted in my provisional decision, it 
seems most likely that URV only sent one part of the form described  as Part A of 
medif.  So, I have  already taken  this into account when reaching my decision    
The award of £2000  which is in the substantial category for our service  takes  into 
account everything Mr and Mrs O have told us about the lack of nursing care 
available and the overall circumstances  of this complaint
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O have asked  for information about how to claim for 
their other expenses,  which  havent  yet been reimbursed. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I think they should have  been given more guidance. I think  URV  needs to 
send Mr and Mrs O a claim form for them to complete. And, as I outlined in my 
provisional decision, Id expect them to review this as a priority given the passage of 
time. Im not making a finding in this decision about the settlement of the claim as it 
hasnt been assessed  yet
I think its fair and reasonable for URV  to put things right by paying Mr and Mrs O 
£2000 compensation for the trouble and upset  caused. They should also send Mr 
and Mrs O a claim  form and, once the completed  form is submitted, review the claim 
as a priority.
Ref: DRN80177533my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Os complaint against Union Reiseversicherung AG and direct 
them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 April 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80177534COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs O are unhappy  with the level of service  they received from Union Reiseversicherung  AG 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
background 
Mr and Mrs O were on holiday with their extended family when Mr O had a call. He was taken  to a 
public hospital. The family contacted URV to make a claim. Mr O was 77 at the time and had injuries 
to his shoulder and hip, which required surgery. Mr and Mrs O are represented by their daughter, but 
Ill refer to all submissions as being  made by Mr and Mrs O. They are unhappy with the overall level of 
service, including  the level of communication from URV,  delays in repatriation and the standard  of 
care Mr O received.  
In their final response letter URV  said their emergency medical assistance team werent aware  of the 
medical situation  in the country where Mr O was and they made amends for this by appointing a 
private nurse, once  cover was verified. They said that thy wouldnt repatriate Mr O for at least  10 days  
after surgery  and the information theyd received from the treating  doctor was limited.  URV also said 
theyd instructed an agent  to make sure Mr O received the correct  medication  and that they werent 
responsible for delays in Mr Os repatriation. 
Our investigator looked into what happened. Initially she didnt uphold the complaint because she 
agreed that the reports from the hospital didnt provide the detail that URV needed. And she said that 
URV acted on concerns  about the standard of care when they were  made aware  of this. She thought  
URV had acted reasonably.  
Mr Os provided a lot more  information, including lots of transcripts of calls shed had with URV and 
emails. The investigator  looked at the evidence  again and issued  a further opinion. On the basis of 
the new evidence  she thought that there had been a delay in verifying  cover and arranging private 
nursing. And she thought  that there were failings in how URV  communicated with Mr O and his family.  
However, she thought that the delays in repatriation  were the hospitals responsibility. She awarded 
Mr and Mrs O £600 compensation.  
Mr O disagreed for a number of reasons.  In summary he said: 
The family had to give up their holiday  to provide care  this could  have been avoided if URV 
had arranged  the nursing  care more quickly
The operation failed and hes needed two further operation since 
He flew home with a serious infection which wasnt spotted by the nurse  escort  
He wasnt given essential drugs
The family spent a lot of money  travelling to and from the hospital  but havent been given a 
claim form 
They  spent money on equipment such as wipes and commodes 
URV were  well aware of the financial pressure  all of this was placing on the family as they 
were running out of money  
£600  feels  a bit of an insult, and feels  unjust.  
Ref: DRN80177535my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, 
which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly 
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its 
customers and between a customer and another client.  
The relevant industry guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate information 
on its progress
(3) not unreasonably reject  a claim  (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
delays in arranging private nursing care
URV isnt responsible for the standard of care in a foreign hospital. But I would  have expected them  to 
take proportionate steps to assist Mr O when they became aware of any issues which were  having  an 
impact on him.  
Shortly after Mr Os admission, on the 16 July, URV  were told in a phone call: 
There was a cleanliness issue and the hospital was dirty 
Mrs O was having to help Mr O pass urine  
There were  no nurses to help Mr O get to the toilet   the family was concerned about what 
would happen  if he needed a bowel movement
Mr O was in his 70s, Mrs O was elderly and they had young grandchildren on holiday with 
them.  
None of this information was noted on URVs file. 
Cover was verified on the 17 July following receipt of Mr Os medical records. URV  was entitled to ask 
for Mr Os records in order to ensure  his medical history  had been accurately declared. 
On the 20 July URV were informed that Mr O had surgery, there were no nurses  and Mr Os family 
had to wash him in preparation for surgery.  His daughter in law said: 
The hospital  is so far back, its frightening. You know we need to get him out of there and also 
for cleanliness  as well.   
On the 23 July URV were told again that the hospital was dirty and that when the nurse  had been 
changing Mr Os drip shed poured the residue, including  blood  and fluid, on the floor behind  Mr Os 
Ref: DRN80177536bed. And they were again told that Mr Os family had needed to prepare him for surgery.  There  is no 
note of this call on URVs file. 
In more recent correspondence  with our service the family clarified that Mr Os son was given a bottle  
of surgical spirits and told to clean Mr O before the operation as there were no nurses  available to do 
it. So I can understand  why they were shocked and worried in the circumstances, given that Mr O was 
going to have  quite major surgery at the hospital. 
On the 25 July URV were told that Mr O had been  left sitting in his own faeces. Mr Os daughter  was 
told theyd consider arranging  a nurse once cover was fully verified.  This was even  though cover  had 
been verified  around  two weeks  before, according  to URVs notes, and theyd been aware of these 
issues since Mr Os admission to the hospital.
I think  there was a delay in arranging for a private nurse to assist  Mr O and that this should have been 
arranged once cover  had been  verified on the 17 July, particularly bearing in mind  that Mr Os family 
quickly made URV aware of this. As a result, until the nurse arrived, Mr Os family had to attend to his 
personal care needs, including wiping  him down  before surgery and attending to his toileting needs.   
Clearly this had a significant impact on the rest of the family, who were travelling back and forth to the 
hospital to support Mr O. As Mrs O is a policyholder I can consider the impact on her. But, 
unfortunately, I cant award compensation for the impact on other family members because  they 
werent party  to the contract of insurance.  
In any event, I think URV ought reasonably  to have been aware,  given Mr Os location, that this was 
likely to be an issue and the family  would be expected to give Mr O personal care,  for example 
attending to his toileting  needs and feeding him. URV  has operated in this market long enough to 
have adequate insight  about  this issue and Id expect them  to apply that insight to the benefit  of 
customers like Mr O.
Mr and Mrs O say that their family has received nothing from URV in relation to the expenses they 
incurred. Ordinarily, the costs of travelling to and from the hospital  arent  covered  under the policy. 
But, as I think URV ought to have  arranged  a private nurse  for Mr O once cover was verified,  I think  
they ought  to cover the costs of Mrs O and her son (who remained as Mr Os companion under the 
policy) travelling to and from the hospital from the 17 July to the date that the private nurse  arrived. Mr 
and Mrs O should provide  URV with a breakdown of these costs if they havent done so already. 
medication and surgery
It was the treating doctors responsibility  to oversee  the medical treatment  of Mr O. But the family 
were understandably  concerned that Mr O wasnt receiving his usual medication. I note he had quite a 
complex medical history and was taking a number  of medications. 
On the 1 August  URVs  file says that Mr O was running  out of medication. This issue became  an 
increasingly important  point as time passed. On 4 August  Mr Os daughter again raised this concern. 
She said that the agent had been bringing  the medication but they were missing.  
URVs document and event  history says that an email  was sent to the agent on that day regarding 
medication. I asked to see a copy  of that email  but there  is no mention of Mr Os medication. The 
email is chasing the agent up about a fax that hadnt been received.  
On 5 August Mr Os daughter again raised concerns that Mr O wasnt getting all the medication he 
needed. URV  responded the same day to say theyd  raise this with their agent  to ensure Mr O was 
getting the right treatment.  Ive seen no evidence  on URVs file to suggest  that this was further 
discussed or followed  up with the agent. 
I understand that Mr O has since needed surgery on two occasions due to further issues with his hip. 
URV isnt responsible for the quality of the surgery performed in a foreign hospital and concerns about 
Ref: DRN80177537the conduct of the doctor who completed the surgery would need to be raised with the hospital 
directly. 
delays in repatriating Mr O
Mr O had surgery on 19 July. URV told Mr Os family that hed be repatriated on the 
2 August 2018. I can see that a note on the file says that usually hed be fit to fly 10 days after the 
operation. But Mr O wasnt repatriated until 10 August  2018. 
Ive been provided with a medical report dated 24 July saying  Mr O was fit to fly and that stretcher 
repatriation was recommended.  The treating  doctor  had recommended stretcher repatriation from Mr 
Os admission and this email  said that he couldnt provide  any other recommendation to the insurer. 
On the 26 July the treating  doctor again  recommended this and explained  his reasons for this in more 
detail. A further report dated the 30 July said that 11 days after the operation 
Mr O was stable and had been ready for discharge since the 22 July. 
Despite the treating  doctor having given his reasons  and making clear that he did not have a different 
recommendation URV asked for his reasons again. On the 4 August the note from URVs agent  says:  
regarding your questions  the doctor was annoyed and said that he tries to do his best for the 
patient, the recommendation  will not change and they are written in the fit to fly certificate that 
has already  been provided to the patient. The doctor says that from now on the repatriation 
plan is responsibility of insurance company . 
I note that the agent expressed concern that the treating  doctor was prejudiced  against insurers and 
suggested moving  Mr O to a private clinic  for further assessment. On the 
6 August the case was reviewed by URVs  medical  team who decided  it was clear that Mr O could  be 
repatriated by a skilled transfer nurse. 
There was then an issue with the medical  certificate as the treating doctor didnt provide details  about 
Mr Os heart condition  and then because the treating doctor had again said on the form that a 
stretcher was needed. URVs notes on the 8 August  say:
Stretcher is needed  but pax will fly seated and take responsibility. TAI advise this will raise  
more alarm bells with airline and so will only send Part A of medif and hope for the best.TAI 
advise they do know the name of nurse escort, which is more than I do .
Mr O was repatriated by commercial flight, with a nurse escort on the 10 August, 8 days after hed 
been told he would be repatriated. 
I appreciate that URV wanted more  information from the treating doctor and that a longer report  would  
have been preferable. It is positive to see that they instructed an agent to assist them  in obtaining 
more information. But they didnt  gather any new or significant information between the 30 July and 
the point that repatriation took place on 10 August. 
By the 30 July Mr O was 11 days post-surgery. So more  than 10 days had passed,  which was the 
time quoted by URV as the point at which theyd look to repatriate.  But no arrangements had been put 
in place to repatriate  on that date, despite URV  being fully aware of Mr Os condition. For example, no 
attempt had been made to hold a stretcher flight or a commercial flight. Instead URV spent  a 
considerable amount of time going back to the doctor  challenging his recommendation  for a stretcher 
despite being  told that would  not change. 
Ref: DRN80177538I think  it ought  to have been clear on 30 July a decision needed to be made  on the available  medical 
evidence. URV had been  specifically told the doctor would not be changing his recommendation.  Mr 
O was stable, had been so since the surgery and he was fit to fly. They also had regularly updated 
information about Mr Os vital signs. So Im satisfied the decision about  the method  to repatriate  could 
have been made on or around this date.  
Had the decision been made to repatriate Mr O by commercial flight at that point it seems likely that 
Mr O could have been repatriated  on the 2 August, as once the decision was made by the medical 
team it only took a few days to arrange a flight. In reaching this conclusion  Ive taken into account  
there was no new material evidence  provided  between the 30 July and the 8 August when the 
repatriation was arranged.  The doctor simply  repeated his recommendations  to URV. 
URV told us that very few airlines offer an option of stretcher travel and few airports are equipped to 
deal with them. They said that when a stretcher is fitted  to an aircraft  the technicians  have to travel on 
the outbound leg in order to fit the stretcher for the return trip. They  said that the stretcher is fitted  at 
the height  of the seat back with a modesty curtain drawn across  so the patient is in enclosed  in a very 
small area close to the bottom of the luggage compartments. They explained this isnt a pleasant  
experience and catheterisation and/or  incontinence pads are needed  because it isnt possible for the 
patient to use the toilets on the plane. 
URV acknowledge this wasnt explained to Mr O and his family at the time.  And Ive seen no specific 
evidence in this case that availability of a stretcher flight was an issue.  URVs event  log doesnt 
suggest that any enquiry was made about timescales or availability of stretcher flights. I also cant see 
that any enquiry was made about the airports capacity to deal with a stretcher flight.  Instead URV 
spent over a week challenging the treating  doctors opinion rather  than making a decision  on the 
evidence available. And, as Mr O wasnt told about the likely conditions  on a stretcher flight, he didnt 
understand why URV were so resistant to the idea.  
In any event, as Ive explained, I think the decision to repatriate by commercial flight  ought  to have 
been made on the 30 July. So the conditions  on a stretcher flight arent central  to my decision in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Mr O says that the nurses on the flight didnt look after Mr O on the plane and left him with the private  
ambulance crew  despite him having temperature spikes,  low blood pressure, nausea and pain. He 
says that a few hours later he was admitted  to hospital in a critical  condition and diagnosed with 
double pneumonia. Ive seen  a copy of medical evidence  which confirms  he had severe  pneumonia 
when he was admitted. So, its disappointing to hear that Mr O was taken straight home, based on the 
medical evidence thats been provided.   
the claim
URV says they havent  reimbursed any other costs  because a claim  form hasnt been submitted. 
I note that in October 2018 Mr and Mrs O stated in their complaint points sent to URV that they hadnt 
received forms  for the reimbursement  of costs.  But I cant see that they were  given any further 
guidance about submitting  a claim. 
Mr and Mrs O will need to submit a claim form for any additional costs they want  to claim and URV 
should review this as a priority. Id expect any such claim to include consideration of the effective 
curtailment of the holiday and hospital benefit.  Im not making any finding about the settlement of the 
claim itself as it hasnt yet been assessed. 
Ref: DRN80177539customer service  issues 
Mr O has provided a number of transcripts of phone  calls the family had with URV which werent  
provided as part of URVs  submissions to our service. Ive also taken  into account the document and 
event history which URV has provided. I can see that contact was predominantly  driven by Mr Os 
family. 
They called regularly for updates and I note that they were incorrectly told after the 17 July that cover 
hadnt been verified. This was due to a system error but understandably  it caused a lot of stress  and 
confusion because Mr O and his family  keep  getting  mixed messages.  
Mr Os daughter was also told shed  receive  a call back from two managers, but this didnt happen  
despite her chasing this up. 
The call notes  also didnt always  accurately  reflect the discussions URV were having  with the family. 
For example, on the 1 August URV were told: 
My dad cant stay that length of time. Hes already  going crazy, cooped  up in a hospital that it 
filthy and its not like our hospitals here youre leaving  him there and this is detrimental to 
his health and I want you to note on the file yet again that we have said that the hospital  is 
dirty, its not in a good condition, this is detrimental to my dads health as is the stress  that 
youre causing  to him and my brother. 
The advisor  said in response that it would be noted down  on the case. But none of this detail was 
noted on the file. 
Once the wider family went home, Mr O and his son were abroad,  as the rest of the family had to 
travel home  as planned. And, as Ive also explained  above, no one at URV took the time to explain in 
detail why they didnt want to repatriate Mr O on a stretcher flight. 
I can also understand the familys perception that nothing  was really happening because the treating 
doctor simply repeated his recommendation. So I think the communication could have been much 
better throughout the life of the claim.  
In an email to URV, dated  5 August, Mr Os daughter said that she alone  had made 41 calls to URV 
and only receiving 3 calls from them. She also complained about  the lack of updates.  Based on the 
evidence Ive seen the communication  was predominantly driven by Mr Os family and I think URV 
could have been more  proactive about updating Mr O and his family. 
trouble and upset
I can only award compensation  to the policy  holders, Mr and Mrs O as they are parties  to the 
insurance contract. But its clear to me that Mr Os daughter, son and daughter in law had a highly 
unsatisfactory service from URV  and were  distressed by their experiences of dealing  with URV. I think  
their experiences and unnecessary distress is also likely to have  taken a toll on Mr and Mrs O and 
exacerbated their distress.  
Of course, requiring medical treatment abroad following an accident is, in itself, stressful and 
upsetting. But Ive taken  into account whether  URV added to Mr and Mrs Os distress and 
inconvenience.  
Mr O is described as crying  when he was told he could finally return  home  after the lengthy process  of 
arranging the repatriation. I think  the main issue in this case was the lack of practical  support offered  
once cover was verified. This meant that Mr O had to rely on his family for intimate personal  care in a 
highly stressful situation  and whilst he was experiencing pain. 
Ref: DRN801775310In the call transcripts Mr O is described  as agitated, stressed and desperate to get home. The family 
had expressed repeated  concerns about the cleanliness of Mr Os environment  and his access  to 
medication. URV were  aware that Mr O and his son had run out of money  and that his son had also 
run out of medication. So, I think delaying the repatriation by around 8 days  added to the stress  Mr 
and Mrs O were experiencing at an already difficult time. 
Meanwhile, Mrs O had supported her husband whilst she was abroad and then had to return  to the 
UK. She says that she was continually stressed and on edge, particularly  knowing that the hospital 
wasnt clean and Mr O didnt have nursing care. Mrs O also was worried she might have to sell her 
house to get Mr O home because URV kept telling  the family, in error, that cover hadnt been verified.  
Mr and Mrs O describe feeling robbed of ever going on holiday outside the UK again. I find their 
description to be compelling and plausible given  the circumstances of this case. I think Mr O 
experienced severe  level of distress and inconvenience as a result of poor service  and delays. So I 
think URV should pay £2000 compensation to Mr and Mrs O, who were both impacted by the way in 
which this claim was handled. 
putting things  right
URV needs to put things  right by paying: 
The cost of Mrs O and her son travelling to and from the hospital up until the point that a 
private nurse arrived  this is subject to a breakdown  of approximate costs being provided  
before I make my final decision
£2000 to Mr and Mrs O for the trouble and upset caused by poor service and delays. 
URV should also assess the claim  as a matter  of priority,  including  effective curtailment  and hospital  
benefit. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and direct  Union Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in the 
way Ive outlined above. URV and Mr and Mrs O should let me know  by 
21 February 2020 if they have any further information to add. 
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8017753