K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains on behalf of himself  and the other two partners in a partnership.  They  are 
unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC wont pay their claim under their commercial  property 
insurance for storm damage  to a wall.
background
Mr Ps property  consists of a row of shops, flats,  garages and a car park. In February 2017 a 
wall collapsed at the side of the property.  This was a wall on the boundary  of the property 
which had previously been part of some garages which had been  demolished.  Mr P advised 
his broker of the damage. He was advised  that he could  go ahead  with emergency work but 
should take photos and get estimates.  Mr P went ahead and had the wall replaced at a cost 
of over £22,000. He made the claim  to Zurich in September 2017.
Zurich reviewed the claim but said it wouldnt pay it. It said that its position had been 
prejudiced by Mr P not reporting the claim until over 7 months  after the damage happened. It 
pointed out that the wall wasnt  a boundary  wall but part of a block  of garages  where  the 
other three walls had been  demolished.  As such it was likely  to have been a dangerous 
structure. It pointed out that despite Mr P saying otherwise the owner of the neighbouring  
property had been concerned about the structural integrity of the wall before it collapsed.  
And with the invoices  Mr P had sent there  was an estimate for demolishing  the wall, which 
Zurich said showed  that that had been the intention. It further said that though it agreed 
there were storm conditions at the time of the collapse it didnt think they were the main 
cause of the damage. Zurich pointed  out that the new wall was a considerable improvement 
on the old wall.
Mr P disputed this  he said hed had an opinion  from engineers  on the structural integrity of 
the wall. He further said that there  was a named  storm at the time of the walls collapse,  and 
there had been  winds  of in excess of 94mph. Mr P asserted that the new wall was built like 
for like in replacement  of the old one. 
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Zurich had acted reasonably.  Its position  
had been prejudiced by Mr P not reporting the claim to Zurich until after the repairs  had been 
carried out. He further said that whilst  there may have  been a storm at the time the wall 
collapsed it was not the main cause of the damage.
Mr P disputed this and the matter has been  passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr P has been advised in the case of claims for damage by storm, we ask three 
questions, and it is only if the answer  to each  question is yes that it would be likely that I 
would say the claim should  be payable:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around  the date of the claim?
2. Is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause  of the damage?
Ref: DRN83421802I think the first two questions can be answered yes. There  was a named storm at the time 
of the walls collapse. The weather records show winds of up to 50mph though they may well 
have been higher. Also very high winds could cause a wall to collapse so Ill accept that the 
damage is consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
It is the third question that has caused difficulty in this case. First of all Mr P didnt report the 
claim until seven months  after the damage  happened when all the repairs  had been carried  
out. He says he advised his broker at the time although the evidence is that the broker  only 
advised him that he could proceed with emergency  work. It was Mr Ps responsibility to 
make the claim. As the damage couldnt  be inspected  at the time it hasnt been possible to 
definitively say what state the old wall was in. If Mr P feels his broker  should have made the 
claim thats a matter he should take up with them.
So as the damage, and the old wall couldnt  be inspected  at the time Zurich obtained 
evidence about  it from the neighbour, photos  of the collapsed wall and some  photos of the 
garages before they were demolished. I think its reasonable to consider that evidence. I also 
think it reasonable to say that leaving one wall standing after the three  walls  attached  to it. 
without some evidence  of new supports being installed, is likely to be less stable  than the 
wall when  it was part of the garage. I understand the neighbour was a surveyor and had 
produced his own report on the structural integrity  of the wall which  he was concerned about. 
While normally  such evidence wouldnt be definitive,  I think  in the circumstances of this case 
its reasonable to take it into account.
Zurich spoke to the neighbours  wife who saw the wall collapse and who said this didnt 
happen during the storm. Again while that isnt a definitive conclusion it was reasonable to 
consider it in the absence of being able to inspect it in the immediate aftermath.
Zurich pointed out that Mr P had sent an estimate in mentioning the possible demolition of 
the wall. As Mr P says there was no intention  to demolish it, and as the other walls had been 
demolished this was always a possibility,  I wont take account  of it.
My overall view is that it seems  to me to be most  likely  that the wall was unstable. Its not 
possible to say for sure but I think it likely that the wall wouldnt have collapsed  at the time of 
the storm had it been  stable.  Had Zurich  been able to inspect the damage at the time it might  
have been able to come to a firmer view about  the likely state  of the wall before its collapse. 
I dont think that its been  shown that the storm conditions were the main  cause  of the 
damage, so I cant say that Zurich should pay the claim  for storm damage.
I have noted that there was a dispute  about whether the new wall was an upgrade and 
improvement on the old wall. As I havent  found  that Zurich should pay the claim,  I wont 
make any further comment on that.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8342180