K822xComplaint
Mr K complains as a director of I, a limited company, that DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  
Company Limited  refused a claim on a legal expenses insurance  policy  and took too long to 
make the decision.
Background 
In March 2017 I made a claim on its legal expenses policy  relating to a negligence claim 
against an accountant. I had bought  another  business and said the accountants advice on 
the purchase was negligent.
DAS referred the claim to their panel  solicitors for review. The solicitors said the claim didnt 
have prospects of success. Mr K brought a complaint to this service  on behalf  of I, following 
which DAS said it would  review the claim in light of a legal opinion I had obtained about 
prospects of success.  DAS passed the claim a different panel solicitor  to review.
DAS then explained that it didnt  feel Is legal advice was sufficient, and said the date of 
occurrence (the event  that led to the dispute) pre-dated  the start of the policy, so it wasnt  
covered in any event  as cover is only available for incidents that happen  after the policy  has 
stated. But DAS agreed to get advice from a barrister on both the date of occurrence and the 
prospects of success.  
Mr K made a further complaint following  this decision. In reply to that complaint, DAS said it 
was necessary to get another opinion from their barrister. But it acknowledged there had 
been some  delays dealing with the claim and offered £100 compensation in respect  of this. It 
also explained why it felt the date of occurrence  was before the start of the policy. 
DAS said the solicitors would show the draft of the instructions to the barrister before they 
were sent.  The solicitors decided to instruct  the barrister to advise solely  on the date of the 
incident first. I wasnt shown these instructions. The barristers opinion  was provided to our 
service in January  2019.
The barristers opinion  was that the date of occurrence could only be before the policy had 
started. So DAS said the claim wouldnt be covered. 
When our investigator considered the complaint, she thought the date of occurrence was 
after the policy started,  because I wasnt aware  of the problem at the time it bought  the 
policy. DAS disagreed, and said even if that was correct, the claim still wouldnt be covered 
because I was aware of the dispute within 90 days of the policy starting, and there  is no 
cover if the date of occurrence is within the first 90 days. 
Our investigator agreed this would apply, meaning the claim was not covered. But she said 
DAS should have considered the policy terms properly and explained to I sooner that the 
claim would not be covered. She recommended that DAS pay £200 compensation in respect  
of this.
DAS accepted the recommendation  and said it would pay the compensation on receipt  of 
Mr Ks acceptance on behalf  of I. Mr K doesnt agree and, on behalf  of I, has requested an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN85005552My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The claim I made on its policy  was to cover legal  proceedings relating to a contract dispute. 
The policy provides cover for this type of claim,  provided the claim has a reasonable chance 
of success. However,  there is an exclusion in the policy terms for any dispute  arising  from an 
agreement entered  into before the start of the policy, where the date of occurrence is within  
the first 90 days of the policy. In other words, if I entered into the contract before taking out 
the policy, and was aware of the dispute  within the first 90 days  after the policy  starts,  any 
claim relating to this would not be covered.
Thats what  happened in this case. The policy started in September 2016.  The proposed 
legal action was a negligence claim against  an accountant. I entered  into the contract with 
the accountant before taking out the policy  he had already been  instructed in August and 
DAS obtained  advice from a barrister who said the breach of contract most likely happened 
in August.
Mr K says at that point  there was nothing to suggest the accountant had been negligent; it 
was only later that it became clear the accountant hadnt done what  they should have done. I 
agree that I wouldnt have  known in August 2016  that there was a problem. But I think  it did 
know in September,  and certainly by October.  The information I has provided to us confirms  
that on 4 October  201 it suspected the accountant  hadnt carried out their work properly. 
That was within the first 90 days of the policy. So, on the basis  of the policy terms, the claim 
would not be covered,  as the date of occurrence was within 90 days of the policy  starting.
Mr K says it wasnt  clear in October what harm had been caused, and has provided details 
of some advice it obtained showing it was only over the following months that it became 
clear. However, I was clearly aware  in October  2016 that there  was a dispute. 
Mr K also says DAS agreed  to over the claim and it would be unfair to change that decision 
some two years later, especially as nothing had changed  there was no new information 
that caused DAS to reach a different view.  I appreciate that would  be very frustrating. And I 
agree DAS could  have  sorted this out earlier. But that fact that DAS didnt realise the claim 
wasnt covered under  the policy terms doesnt in itself mean cover should be provided.
I made  its claim  in 2017. Although DAS accepted  the claim, it was reviewing issues relating 
to the date of the dispute and whether  the claim had a reasonable chance  of success. I was 
told in 2018 that a barrister opinion was to be obtained on both the date of occurrence  and 
the chances of success. In fact, the barrister was only asked to advise on the date of 
occurrence. I can see why that happened   if the claim isnt covered at all, then there would  
be no need to consider  whether it was likely  to succeed. But this wasnt explained to I. 
And looking at the sequence of events overall,  I think DAS could have made its decision on 
this point and explained it sooner. M K was shocked  to find out so long after making the 
claim that it wouldnt be covered.
Its important to note that in this case the policyholder  is I  a limited  company  not Mr K 
himself. A limited  company is a separate legal entity  from the people  who run it. I cant  award 
any compensation to Mr K for any distress  hes been caused.  What I can award  
compensation for is the inconvenience caused  to I.
Ref: DRN85005553Ive considered the circumstances  of the case and the inconvenience caused to I, which  
spent more time dealing  with this matter than should have been the case. Having done so I 
agree that the sum of £200  is a reasonable sum to acknowledge the inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct DAS Legal  Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation of £200  to I for the inconvenience caused  
to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8500555