K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Northern Bank  Limited,  trading as Danske Bank, allowed his wife to 
withdraw money from their bank account when it had said that all withdrawal instructions had 
to be signed by all parties to the account.  
background 
Mr R and his wife had a joint bank account with Danske Bank. They are divorcing and, 
because of a dispute between them, Danske Bank  wrote to Mr R in September  2017 and 
said that all withdrawal instructions must be signed  by all parties to the accounts. But later 
that month  it allowed his wife to make two withdrawals of more than £11,000 each  from the 
account without  his signed instructions. He complained to Danske Bank but wasnt  satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld  in part. He said that the 
money transferred  out was from a pension in Mr Rs wifes name only so he wouldnt be 
asking Danske Bank to refund that amount to Mr R as he didn't believe that he wouldve 
been entitled to that money.  But he believed that Danske Bank should apologise to Mr R for 
allowing the withdrawal  without his consent and for not informing him that the withdrawal  had 
taken place, but as he hadnt  lost out financially as a result of that, he wouldnt  be asking it to 
compensate him.
Mr R has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has provided  a 
letter from his solicitors  which says,  in summary,  that the actions by Danske Bank have 
prejudiced Mr Rs ability to obtain  a fair settlement of his financial remedy  claim with his wife 
following the release of money from their bank  account which shouldve been  effectively 
frozen with neither party being able to undertake  withdrawals without the authority of the 
other or a court order. So his solicitors say that its incorrect to suggest that Mr R hasnt 
suffered significant  financial  loss.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Danske  Bank  on 28 November 2018. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Danske Bank wrote to Mr R in September 2017 and its letter  said: 
The Bank  is on notice that a dispute exists  between parties  to [specified] joint 
accounts This dispute means that the Bank's mandate to operate your 
accounts is now cancelled. All future instructions to us (including withdrawals) 
must therefore be signed by all parties  to the accounts together. 
But later that month Danske Bank  allowed Mr Rs wife to make  two withdrawals, each 
for more than £11,000, without Mr Rs knowledge  or approval. It says that Mr Rs wife 
had provided confirmation  that money that had been  deposited  into the account the 
previous month from a pensions provider was deposited to the joint account  in error 
as it came from a matured pension in her sole name  so was her money. And Danske 
Bank says that its legal team  granted special dispensation for the transactions.
But Danske Bank was on notice that a dispute  existed between  Mr R and his wife 
and it had said that withdrawals from the account must be signed by both Mr R and 
Ref: DRN83692612his wife. So I consider that Mr R had a reasonable expectation that the money in the 
joint account  including  the payment from his wifes pension provider - couldnt be 
withdrawn without his consent. And I dont consider that it was fair or reasonable for 
Danske Bank to then allow Mr Rs wife to withdraw  any money from the account  
without his consent.
Mr Rs solicitors say that Danske Banks  actions have prejudiced Mr Rs ability  to 
obtain a fair settlement of his financial remedy claim with his wife. It isnt for this 
service to make any findings on what is a fair settlement.  It would be for a court to 
decide on that  and (if it sees fit) to take account of the pensions  payment that had 
been received  by Mr Rs wife. And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Danske Bank to refund to the joint account  (or to Mr R) 
any of the money  that was withdrawn by Mr Rs wife. 
But I do consider  that Danske  Bank acted incorrectly in allowing Mr Rs wife to 
withdraw the money from their joint account  without  Mr Rs consent. That has clearly 
caused Mr R considerable distress  and inconvenience. And I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances for Danske Bank to pay £500 to compensate 
him for that distress and inconvenience.
Subject to any further representations by Mr R or Danske Bank, my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part.
Danske Bank has accepted my provisional decision. But Mr R has responded to my 
provisional decision in detail and says, in summary,  that:
Danske Bank hasnt complied with the terms and conditions  of the account because  
it failed to stop the payments, it refused to fulfil its own obligation to refund any 
payment made without  his consent  and delayed him from finding out what  was 
happening to the joint account until it was too late for him to take any action;
he understands that the money  has been  spent so cant be included in the 
matrimonial assets which, if true, means that hell lose over £11,000 as a result of 
Danske Bank's failure to observe fair practice and its own rules;  and
Danske Bank should be required to restore the account to the state it wouldve been 
in had that payment not been made  so that the sum of nearly £23,000 would then still 
be available for consideration by a court; 
and he asks whether  hell I be able to approach this service again  in the future for redress  
against Danske  Bank  if his understanding is correct and he suffers  an actual  financial loss.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
Its clear that Danske Bank didnt comply with the letter that it sent to Mr R in September 
2017 when it allowed  his wife to withdraw money from the account.  That will have caused 
distress and inconvenience for Mr R and I consider  that £500 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for that distress  and inconvenience.  Danske Bank has accepted  my 
provisional decision and agreed to pay £500  to Mr R. 
I can understand Mr Rs frustration that the withdrawals were  made  without his consent. But 
Mr Rs wife received that money and Mr R understands that shes  spent it. It would be for a 
Ref: DRN83692613court to decide  whats a fair settlement between  Mr R and his wife  and (if it sees fit) to take 
account of the pensions  payment that has been  received  by Mr Rs wife. So Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Danske Bank to credit those 
withdrawals to the joint account.
If Mr R suffers  an actual financial loss as a result of the withdrawals made by his wife he 
may be able to make a further complaint to this service.  But any such  complaint would be 
subject to the rules  that apply to all complaints and would be considered  on the basis  of the 
evidence available  at that time.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint in part. And I 
order Northern Bank  Limited, trading as Danske  Bank, to pay £500 to Mr R to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8369261