K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs I says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  added  to a store  card account in 2003.  PPI was 
added to Mrs Is store card account  at the same time as she took out the store card.  She 
signed the application form to say she wanted  PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Is complaint.  Mrs I disagreed. She said,  in summary, 
PPI was not explained to her and she didnt know  she had it until she was told by a 
company assisting her with her finances  that it had been added. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Is case.
Im not going  to uphold Mrs Is complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs I aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding PPI to her account.  Based  on the limited information now available,  I cant  know  
what was said at the time the policy was sold.
The paperwork made it clear that PPI was an optional and separate  product and Mrs I 
signed the form to say she wanted  it. This section of the form was quite short,  so I think  
Mrs I wouldve had the chance to read this over in the store before she signed to say she 
wanted it. Mrs I said as English wasnt her first language, there  was a language barrier.  I 
havent seen enough to persuade me of that, and I think it was open to Mrs I to ask FICL 
to explain things more  clearly to her before  she signed the form if she didnt understand 
what she was signing. So, I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold  Mrs Is complaint  based on 
what Ive seen and heard.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs I, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs I got clear  information  so she could make and informed choice 
and decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs I about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, so I have to go on and consider whether Mrs I wouldve likely made  a different 
decision if she had been given clearer information.  I cant see that she wouldve. Ill say 
why.
Ref: DRN81366882Mrs I appeared eligible  to take out the policy  and I cant see that it was unaffordable at the 
time she took it out in 2003. Mrs I couldve cancelled the monthly  paid policy at any time.
Mrs I said she wouldve  got six months worth of sick pay through work and then 28 weeks  
of statutory sick pay after that. She said she had some savings, but couldnt remember  
how much.  The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any benefits she received through work, 
allowing Mrs I to use her work benefits  and any savings  to meet her other living  expenses  
at what might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt working or was made  
redundant. So, I cant see that her other  resources  made the policy  clearly inappropriate 
for her.
Mrs I said she had an operation in 2002.  This appears to have been a one off operation.  So, 
like our adjudicator, I dont think Mrs I wouldve been  put off taking out PPI because  of this 
operation. I understand Mrs I became very unwell many years after taking  out the PPI. I 
cant see that this wouldve affected  her decision  not to take PPI in 2002  either,  indeed  PPI 
is intended to cover unforeseen changes in circumstances like this.  So, I dont think  having 
better information about the things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected  her decision 
take out PPI. 
I cant see that Mrs I has lost out because of anything that FICL did wrong,  so I do not to 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8136688