K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that The Mansfield Building Society  told him he owed £486.83 more than 
he expected shortly before he remortgaged to a new lender. 
background
I issued my provisional decision earlier this month;  a copy of which  is attached to, and forms 
part of, this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I wasnt  minded to 
uphold this complaint.  I invited  both parties  to let me have any further submissions  before  
I reached a final decision.
Mansfield had nothing further to add. Mr G disagreed with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reviewed all the submissions carefully,  and considered the case  afresh, but my opinion 
hasnt changed.  Although  Ive read and considered  everything Mr G has said in response to 
my provisional decision, I wont be responding to every point individually. If I dont comment 
on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think  I need to 
comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses so its 
not a matter of thinking about  this from Mr Gs point  of view as he has said I should. Im sorry 
that Mr G was upset by my provisional decision,  feeling it lacked  empathy  and was 
judgemental, adding insult to injury.  
Mr G has said there  was no acknowledgement of how it felt to him to be asked without any 
warning to make a payment of almost  £500 within a week,  or the remortgage  couldnt  
happen. But as I explained in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded Mr G should  only 
have become aware of the amount hed need to pay to redeem his mortgage that close to 
completion. As I said, the higher  amount  showed on his two annual  mortgage statements, 
and on the two redemption statements his solicitor  received approximately  four months  and 
two months (respectively)  before completion. 
Im sorry  that Mr G thought I was being  snide when  I said I couldnt deal with the 
tax-efficiency point and then gave an explanation.  To be clear, I cant deal with that point, but 
I thought it may help Mr G if I passed  on an explanation that Mansfield  had provided.  It was 
simply factual  information  as put forward  by Mansfield, not a finding  from me, as a way to try 
to help Mr Gs understanding.
Mr G has asked why he had to pay back more than £259,000 to redeem the mortgage given 
hed only borrowed £259,000 and asked to see what he actually paid from our file. I can only 
suggest Mr G contacts  Mansfield (or his solicitor)  directly if hed like a reminder of the exact 
redemption figure  he paid, and how that was broken down. Theres  little I can add to what I 
put in my provisional  findings; there was the original loan, the first payment and the £150 
Redemption Administration Fee, plus whatever interest was due up to the point  of 
redemption.
Mr G has also asked what happened  to the £50 compensation  Mansfield said was more  
proportionate than that put forward by our investigator. As Im not upholding this complaint I 
make no order  or award. Mr G is free to contact  Mansfield directly to see if its willing  to pay 
Ref: DRN84487532that sum,  but we wouldnt get involved  nor would we order Mansfield to pay it  as its not 
an award Ive made.
To answer  a question  from Mr G, I would expect a consumer to know exactly  how much  
theyd borrowed on a mortgage as that information  is contained in their original mortgage 
offer. I wouldnt necessarily expect them to know  mid-month what  the balance should be 
because, as Mr G says, that amount  fluctuates due to interest and whether or not the 
contractual payment had been  made.  But the annual mortgage statements werent produced 
mid-month; they werent even produced mid-year so that point is moot. The annual 
statements contained the balance as at close of business of 31 December each year,  so 
thats the final year-end balance, so there shouldnt be any confusion  about whether a 
payment for that month had been made yet or not.
Mr G has said It also feels like were reading different letters here as the one Mansfield sent 
me makes clear  they made  a mistake in not taking the payment in the first month.  They say: 
"...your first monthly repayment  of £486.83  was not collected in the month following 
completion." This is a clear admission of liability - that statement can only be read as they 
should have taken it and didnt.
I think theres been a misunderstanding here on Mr Gs part, which  hasnt been helped  by 
the wording of the letters from Mansfield.  Mansfield collected Mr Gs payments in line with its 
schedule. At the time this mortgage was taken out thats how Mansfield collected  its 
mortgage payments.  It wasnt that it was due to collect the payment  and didnt; it was never  
due to collect it. This is shown by the letter Mansfield sent Mr G when his mortgage 
completed which said:
The initial  interest charged to your account from the day the funds were released to your 
solicitor on the 28 April 2017, to the end of the month of April 2017 is £48.11. This will be 
collected by Direct Debit on the 25th of May 2017.
Your regular monthly  payment of £486.83  will be collected by Direct Debit  on the 25th of 
each month  from June 2017.
That is what  Mansfield  collected, so it kept to the intended schedule.  What happened is that 
in 2018 Mansfield noticed there was an issue with mortgages that had completed  in the 
period between the 26th and the end of the month (as Mr Gs had). Mansfield said that whilst 
those mortgage  payment  collections  followed the correct process at the time, it came  to its 
attention that as a result  of collecting payments that way, mortgage accounts  were incurring 
more interest than they would have been had the full mortgage payment (rather than just the 
initial interest) been collected in the month  following completion. So, in effect,  it decided  to 
change its policy on when  to collect the first payment due. 
As a result it implemented a remediation exercise which  involved calculating  the extra  
interest affected customers had paid,  which  is what it did here.  Its unfortunate that Mansfield 
didnt make that explanation clear to Mr G in its letters  to him, but I hope my explanation now 
is helpful and shows why Mansfield didnt make a mistake, and that its remediation exercise 
wasnt an admission of liability in the way Mr G believes.
I understand how strongly Mr G feels about  this, and Im sorry that Mr G thought my 
provisional decision was unkind and unfair. But having reviewed everything, I dont uphold 
this complaint for all the reasons given above and in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN84487533my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my decision before 16 April 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84487534COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G is unhappy that The Mansfield Building  Society told him he owed £486.83 more  than he 
expected shortly before  he remortgaged to a new lender.  
background
Mr Gs buy-to-let mortgage completed on 28 April 2017. He borrowed  £259,000  on an interest only 
basis, with a one-off CHAPS fee of £25 being deducted from the mortgage advance. Mr Gs first 
mortgage payment was made on 25 May 2017 and that was £48.11, and then from 25 June he paid 
his normal (variable) payment of £486.83. So it can be seen from this that Mr G was always paying  a 
month behind,  because thats how Mansfield arranged these mortgages at the time.
Mr G was sent an annual mortgage statement on 30 January 2018 which said his mortgage balance 
as at 31 December 2017 was £259,493.35.  His next mortgage statement  was sent to him on 25 
January 2019 and that shows the mortgage balance  as at 31 December  2018 was £259,491.02.  
These both explained that his mortgage had an early  repayment charge (ERC)  of £5,216 that would 
expire on 28 April 2019.
On 22 January 2019 a redemption  statement  for a redemption  date of 1 February   was sent to a 
solicitor acting on behalf  of Mr G as part of a remortgage to a new lender. This redemption statement 
gave the amount required to close the account as £265,459.93, which included the ERC of £5,216.  
So if the ERC  was taken out of the equation, at that point Mr G would  have needed to pay 
£260,243.93 to redeem  his mortgage which  included a £150 Redemption  Administration Fee (RAF).
On 6 March 2019 a further  redemption statement was sent to the solicitor, this time for a redemption 
date of 19 March. This one gave the amount required as £265,205.02 again  including the ERC. So 
after taking the ERC out Mr G would  have  needed  to pay £259,989.02, again including  the RAF.
The final redemption  statement was sent to the solicitor  on 2 May 2019 giving  the amount required as 
£259,736.15 including the RAF,  with no ERC as that had by now expired.
In the meantime a letter had been sent to Mr G on 5 April 2019 which  explained the first full monthly  
payment of £486.83 hadnt  been  collected  in the month following completion, which  had resulted  in 
the mortgage balance  being  increased  and therefore additional interest had been charged. The letter 
said this meant the balance was £486.83 higher than the original loan, and Mr G should factor  that 
into any plans he had to repay borrowing at the end of the term.  It said the payment  would be placed 
in a linked account  that was non_interest -bearing  and it would remain  outstanding  until the point the 
mortgage was redeemed, and then form part of the overall redemption figure  required to pay the 
mortgage in full. Mansfield  said it would credit the mortgage account with £20.02 in respect of the 
extra interest  that had been charged.
Mr G had a phone conversation with Mansfield  on 15 April 2019 within which  he raised a complaint. 
Mansfield responded  to his complaint on 29 April 2019 saying it wasnt an additional payment, it was 
just the first payment that was contractually due and hadnt  been collected.
Unhappy with this Mr G referred  his complaint to this service. He said it was unfair and he simply 
doesnt have that money easily available to him to make  the payment. He also said that as the way 
the treatment  of interest on a BTL mortgages has changed, had he been charged that amount two 
years ago he would have got full tax relief  and now he only gets 20% so hes lost out financially.
Our investigator felt that, whilst the payment was fairly  due, Mr G had been disadvantaged  by only 
being notified  shortly before  his remortgage went through, and for that our investigator felt £150 
compensation was due. Mr G accepted his findings, but Mansfield felt that amount was excessive  and 
£50 was a more reasonable figure. As the parties didnt agree its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN84487535my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Before getting into the merits of this complaint I think it only fair to point out that Mansfield  didnt do 
anything wrong in not collecting  that payment in May 2017. That was how it ran mortgages at the time 
so it wasnt  that it made a mistake here with Mr Gs account. Instead Mansfield reviewed  its mortgage 
accounts, realised this would lead to extra interest being due over the life of the mortgage and 
decided to carry out this remediation process. 
For most  customers the remediation process would  cover the extra interest charged to date and then 
place the uncollected  payment in a non-interest-bearing account so it could be paid either  in stages  
throughout the remaining term, or as a lump sum at any time up to and including redemption of the 
mortgage. Unfortunately the remediation exercise  was carried out shortly  before Mr G completed his 
remortgage to a new lender, a process he was already undertaking  before he was notified of the 
exercise on 5 April.
The first point Ill deal with is Mr Gs claim that he is worse  off financially as he received less tax relief. 
As this wasnt  a point that was raised with Mansfield as part of the original complaint  normally, under  
our rules, Id not be able to deal with here. However, Mansfield has provided the following  explanation
The complaint letter also refers to [Mr G] receiving  less tax relief  as a result of the uncollected 
payment. This was not a part of [Mr Gs] original complaint  to the Society, however it is our 
understanding that for the purposes  of tax relief, the amount of interest charged during the tax year 
(not the aggregate  of the repayment amounts  collected) that should be used in the tax return. Given 
the explanation provided earlier, it can be seen that the amount of interest charged to the mortgage 
account was slightly higher  due to the initial full mortgage repayment not being collected; therefore  
[Mr G] should have received a slightly  higher  amount of tax relief  as a result,  assuming he entered  the 
interest charged figure into his tax return.
In any event, as I explained above Mansfield  didnt do anything wrong by not collecting this payment 
at the start;  it collected  payments in line with the schedule  it explained to Mr G at completion. 
Mansfield decided  to carry out the remediation  exercise so its customers werent  charged extra 
interest, not so its customers  could maximise  the tax efficiency  of their businesses. 
Mr Gs other issue  is that he says it was unfair to suddenly be asked  for an extra £486.83 at the last 
minute. Ive considered this point carefully, but Im not persuaded  by it. I say this because Mr G had 
been sent two annual mortgage statements,  both of which showed his mortgage  balance to be around 
£259,490 (around £490  more  than hed originally borrowed).  His solicitor also received redemption  
statements in January  and March 2019,  both of which (if the ERC  was ignored) gave redemption 
figures of around  £260,000. So Mr Gs solicitor had been aware since at least January 2019 that 
around £260,000 was needed to redeem  this mortgage.  If the solicitor didnt  pass that information 
onto Mr G thats something hed need  to take up with the solicitor directly. I cant hold Mansfield liable 
for that omission.
Mansfield has never hidden  this figure from Mr G; its always been included in the mortgage balance.  
The only difference  is that in April 2019  Mansfield brought the figure  to Mr Gs attention, and refunded 
the interest hed been charged  on it to date. In Mansfields letter  of 5 April 2019 it was clear  this sum 
needed to be paid when the mortgage was redeemed, saying This  amount will remain outstanding  
until the point at which  your mortgage is redeemed, and will then form part of the overall redemption  
figure required  to repay your mortgage in full.
Having considered  everything  Im satisfied Mansfield did nothing wrong here and therefore I make no 
order or award.
Ref: DRN84487536my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint or make any order or award 
against The Mansfield Building Society
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8448753