K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has recorded his loan as partially  
settled on his credit file when hed made a payment in full and final settlement. He also 
complains that its failed to give him a copy of the original loan agreement.
background
Mr B took out a loan for £17,000 with RBS in 2009. In 2015, he found himself  in financial 
difficulties and was suffering  from stress  and anxiety  as he struggled to make payments to 
the loan. Finally, in 2018, he offered to pay £3,000 in full and final settlement of the loan. 
RBS rejected that offer but said it would accept a payment of £4,611.21 as full and final 
settlement of the loan. This would mean  writing  off the remaining balance  of just under  
£2,000. Mr B agreed to this and arranged  for the payment to be made.  But he then found his 
credit file recorded the loan as partially settled instead of settled.
He complained to RBS about the entry  in his credit file and asked for a copy  of the original 
loan agreement. RBS rejected his complaint as it said the credit file was accurate. It said it 
couldnt provide  a copy of the original  loan because it didnt  keep records  going back so far 
but provided evidence of statements and records of management of the loan. Mr B wasnt 
satisfied so he came to this service.  Our investigator  didnt  think the complaint should be 
upheld so Mr B asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen I dont think  the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mr B is upset that his credit file says the loan is partially settled even 
though hes made a payment in full and final settlement. But RBS is obliged  to make  sure his 
credit record  is accurate and reflects the way Mr B has managed  his debts. In these 
circumstances, although RBS wont pursue Mr B for the rest of the debt, his credit file needs 
to show that he didnt pay off all the money  he originally owed. So I think the entry  on Mr Bs 
credit file is a fair reflection of the situation.  Ive also seen a letter  RBS sent to Mr B in June 
2018 explaining that his credit file would be amended to show  the liability has been partially 
satisfied so it appears RBS told Mr B about  this.
Mr Bs also complained because RBS cant provide  a copy of the original loan agreement. 
But businesses dont  keep documents indefinitely and the loan agreement  dates  back to 
2009. So I think its reasonable  that RBS may not be able to provide a copy of the loan. But 
RBS has provided copies of the loan statements for the whole term of the loan and the 
internal loan application details from 2009 so Im satisfied its provided enough information 
about the term, interest rate and payments on the loan for Mr B to know how the balance  
was calculated.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN80269702Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8026970