K820x#14complaint
Mrs H doesnt think Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has offered her fair compensation 
following her complaint about  the sale of a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs Hs complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card (Visa  Card) 
in 1993.
Barclays wrote to Mrs H agreeing that it had mis-sold her PPI and offered to compensate her. 
Due to the amount of time that had passed, Barclays said it didnt have enough records  to 
accurately work out how much Mrs H had been  charged for PPI. So it offered to pay 
Mrs H £4,667.20. 
Barclays said this amount was based on the average amount of premiums, associated  
interest and 8% simple  interest it would refund someone sold a comparable policy to protect 
their credit card and had held the PPI for what was likely to be a similar period of time.
Unhappy with the amount of compensation Barclays had offered, Mrs H referred the 
complaint to our service. Mrs H believed the offer was low and Barclays  should  have her 
statements which would enable it to work out her compensation more  accurately.
Our adjudicator initially concluded that based on the limited information available about  
Mrs Hs card account and PPI policy  the average  offer of compensation was most likely fair.
But Barclays, in response to the adjudicators assessment,  explained that it had obtained 
historic archive statements on of Mrs Hs card account from January 2001.  Barclays 
explained that these were  the earliest statements  that they had on file  and it didnt hold any 
earlier statements going back  to 1993. 
Barclays explained the statements showed  that PPI was last charged to Mrs Hs account  in 
June 2001. As it now had some information  about  Mrs Hs card and how she used her card,  
in order to treat Mrs H fairly, Barclays re-worked Mrs Hs compensation  to see if any 
further compensation was owed. 
In order to do this, Barclays explained  it used the first 12 months statement data to work  out 
an average balance.  It then used that average balance and worked backwards from this 
figure to the date when the policy was taken out to estimate how Mrs H is likely to have  used 
the card and how much the PPI may have cost.
Barclays explained, having done this calculation, its earlier average offer was slightly higher 
 and it would honour that amount.
Our adjudicator considered Barclays had now, as far as possible,  compensated Mrs H fairly. 
Mrs H remained  of the opinion that Barclays should  have  records going back  to 1993  and 
believes Barclays owes her more compensation.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN86282772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address Mrs Hs concerns about the compensation amount, as a starting point, Id 
first like to explain our services approach when we find that a PPI policy  has been mis-sold.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible). 
When working out how to do this on a credit card, wed expect Barclays  to refund the PPI 
premiums and any credit card interest or associated  charges caused by the PPI. Wed  also 
expect Barclays to compensate the consumer for any periods where  theyd been  out of 
pocket as a result of the PPI. This should be at 8% simple interest per year after April 1993.
what has Barclays offered  and is it fair?
Barclays initially offered  to pay Mrs H an average  amount  of compensation that it had paid 
out to consumers that it said had held their PPI policy for a similar period of time.
In situations like this, where there isnt any further information that would enable Barclays to 
calculate a more accurate offer, I would consider Barclays offer of an average amount in 
compensation, to be fair.
So, at the time that Barclays put its offer to Mrs H, I think it did so in a fair way to ensure 
Mrs H wasnt out of pocket through its lack of records.
But Barclays, did then obtain  further  earlier records about Mrs Hs account.  It obtained  
microfiche statements from January 2001. 
The statements  show  that PPI was last charged in June 2001.  So Barclays revisited  its offer 
of compensation   to ensure Mrs H wasnt losing  out.
Ive looked at this offer,  to see whether it is fair and in line with our guidance.
If Barclays had all the statements available, I would expect  Barclays to try to work out and 
offer the difference between what Mrs H owed  on her credit card and what  she might have 
owed on her credit card if she hadnt had PPI.
Normally, to work out what Mrs H might have owed  on her credit card if she hadnt had PPI, I 
would expect Barclays to look at what actually happened on the account each month.  And 
then I would expect  it to work through, month  by month, what might have happened if the 
PPI premiums hadnt been added.  
But in this case, the PPI started in 1993  and ended  in June 2001. From 1993 to December 
2000, Barclays doesnt have copies of Mrs Hs statements. So it doesnt  know  what 
happened on Mrs Hs credit card for most of the time Mrs H held her policy. 
Mrs H feels that Barclays  are withholding the statements  so it can pay her less in compensation. 
I disagree. Where the sale of PPI occurred a long time ago, in this case  over 25 years ago, it 
isnt unusual that full records showing all transactions and costs are not available.   
But Barclays  does have  some information  that enables  it to work out fair compensation. 
Ref: DRN86282773Barclays has used assumptions to work out the likely cost of the PPI, the impact it had on her 
account during  this time and how much  it owes Mrs H in compensation. Broadly summarised, 
Barclays looked at how Mrs H used  her credit card during the first year that it does have 
statements for and from this it has worked  out an average balance  based on this data. It has 
then taken that average balance and assumes  Mrs Hs balance  increases steadily to this 
average from the start of the card.  Barclays has used this to work  out compensation for the 
period where  it doesnt know what her balance or spend on the card was. 
What Barclays has done will not perfectly reflect how Mrs H used  her card between  1993 
and 2001 and how much  the PPI actually cost her during this period. But, in the absence of 
statements from the time, there is no way that Barclays could do this. So, it has had to come 
up with a way of working out how Mrs H is likely  to have used her card during that time and 
what the PPI may have  cost. What it has worked  out may be more or less than the actual  
cost. But all in all, I think the assumptions  Barclays has made when it doesnt know  what  
happened, are fair. 
The offer of compensation Barclays has worked out using this method is less than its earlier 
average offer. So Barclays has agreed  to honour the higher, earlier offer.  All things 
considered, that seems  fair.
I appreciate Mrs H had concerns about  Barclays offer and the statement information held, 
but I hope my decision gives  reassurance to Mrs H that Barclays has treated her fairly and 
its offer of compensation is fair under the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has calculated 
Mrs Hs offer is fair.
I understand the compensation  has already  been  paid, so Barclays  Bank UK PLC doesnt 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8628277