K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how British  Gas Insurance Limited dealt with his Homecare insurance 
claim.
provisional decision 
I issued my provisional decision on this case in January 2020, which set out the background 
to the complaint and what I was minded to decide:
background
In May 2018, Mr H found his overflow pipe was dripping. He notified a claim on his 
British Gas Homecare Four policy  which includes cover for boiler,  central heating 
and plumbing  issues. British Gas fixed the leak by replacing a ball valve.
The following  month, Mr H found another leak (this time in his garage)  so made a 
new claim. A British  Gas engineer attended on 19 June 2018. Mr H says he had to 
wait three  hours for the appointment.  The engineer  turned off his water supply  but 
didnt fix the problem. Instead, he arranged  a further appointment with a company 
British Gas uses for plumbing  claims  which Ill refer to as D.
D came  the following day (20 June 2018)  but advised that the issue  should  in fact 
be dealt with by British Gas directly.  They  did replace  a ball valve during the visit. 
Mr H says this was the ball valve British Gas installed  during the May 2018  claim  
which D told him was faulty.  He also says there  was another long wait for D to arrive.
A British Gas appointment was meant to be scheduled for 2pm-6pm on the 20th  but 
it was missed. An engineer attended  later that evening instead. Mr H says this 
engineer told him the overflow pipe was damaged because the expansion tank was 
overflowing. And this was happening because there was a pin-hole in the coil of his 
hot-water cylinder. The engineer said he wouldnt be able to fix the hole or get a 
replacement coil  which Mr H accepts, based on his enquiries with the 
manufacturer. He says the engineer then suggested he get a combi boiler, which  
doesnt require  a separate water cylinder. So he bought one from British Gas. This 
outlay wasnt covered by his insurance  policy.
Mr H then complained  to British Gas about  the handling of his insurance claim. He 
was unhappy  about the wait for appointments; the missed appointment; and the 
confusion between British  Gas and D. He thought British Gas should have replaced  
his water cylinder  as hed contacted the manufacturer and theyd told him this 
would have been possible.  As British Gas didnt do this, he thought  it should 
contribute towards his new boiler. He also queried why British  Gas told him it had 
cancelled his cover, then sent him notices saying hed be charged  an additional 
£2.04 per year for cover  on his new boiler.  Although this charge  wasnt  actually 
applied, it kept on showing  up incorrectly  on his statements.
British Gas investigated Mr Hs concerns and admitted there had been some 
problems with the handling of his claim.  It offered  £170 compensation  but didnt 
agree to contribute towards  the boiler. 
Ref: DRN89030822Dissatisfied with this response, Mr H referred  the matter  to our service.  Our 
investigator agreed the claim should  have been  handled better. He recommended an 
additional £80 compensation,  bringing the total up to £250.  But he didnt  think Mr H 
was eligible for a replacement boiler under the terms and conditions of the policy  as 
the fault related to the cylinder. And he thought Mr H was only entitled to 
replacements of parts of this cylinder
Both sides disagreed  with the investigators view. British Gas queried  why the 
compensation had been  increased. And Mr H raised  some  new points. He said 
British Gas had installed  and maintained his faulty cylinder, so should have replaced  
it. He also submitted that he was unhappy  his cover had been cancelled  following the 
claim. He queried  whether the repair should  have been covered under his warranty;  
and why hed been told that the issue had been referred to independent arbitration 
when it had in fact been reviewed by a local area manager. The case has now been 
passed to me so I can decide how it should  be resolved.
my provisional findings
jurisdiction
Before explaining my proposed outcome, I want to clarify a point  about  our 
jurisdiction. My decision can only consider issues in relation to the insurance policy 
Mr H holds with British  Gas Insurance Limited. I cant comment  on what should have 
been covered  under  any warranty Mr H holds with another company within  the British  
Gas group. This is because were only allowed to look at complaints under our 
compulsory jurisdiction if theyre about  FCA-authorised firms carrying out either 
regulated activities  or other activities specified in the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook at DISP Rule 2.3.1. So, effecting  and performing a contract of insurance 
are regulated financial services; but maintaining or servicing boilers  (etc) arent.
Accordingly, we can only consider complaints about warranties where its 
established that they effectively constitute  a contract  of insurance  as opposed to a 
service agreement. I also cant see that Mr H attempted to seek  a 
repair/replacement under any warranty  or that British Gas has investigated  a 
complaint about  this. I wanted to address this before explaining my decision  as I cant 
see that weve responded to Mr Hs query  about  his warranty.
the merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to 
overturn the outcome our investigator  reached.
First, Ive considered whether Mr Hs insurance  policy should have covered more   
and if it would therefore be fair to expect British Gas to contribute to his new boiler.  
Mr H says the British Gas engineer told him the cause of the leak was a pin-hole in 
the coil of his hot-water cylinder. Ive found his recollections of the claim to be 
detailed and plausible.  British Gas also acknowledges that this explanation is 
consistent with its records. It says a pin-hole in the heating  coil would cause the unit 
to overflow and this may of [sic] shown up an issue with the overflow pipe to outside . 
On balance, I consider  Mr Hs explanation likely  to be correct.
Ref: DRN89030823Under the central heating section of the policy, Mr H is covered for repairs to his 
cylinder. Repairs are described as a fix to a system/appliance following  an 
individual fault or breakdown. This is a broad definition that would cover many 
scenarios. Here, Im satisfied its reasonable to describe the hole in the coil as an 
individual fault and/or breakdown. Theres no requirement for the insured peril to 
occur suddenly or due to some sort of external force; and theres  no exclusion for 
gradually-operating causes. I have thought about  whether  British  Gas didnt intend to 
cover this sort of scenario. But if that were the case,  it would have needed to make  
this very clear in the policy terms and conditions  and highlight  such  a limitation to 
customers at the point of sale.  As currently drafted, the contract indicates that this 
sort of event is covered. If, on the other  hand,  the relevant  terms were  deemed to be 
unclear or ambiguous, then the interpretation  most favourable to the consumer must 
prevail because  he didnt draft them  see, for example, the Consumer Rights Act 
2015. Either way, it seems to me that Mr H couldnt  reasonably have realised at the 
points of sale or claim that loss or damage  resulting from this sort of event wasnt 
covered.
The investigator thought the coil was a part of the cylinder  so it wouldnt be fair to 
expect British Gas to replace the whole  thing. The policy does contain a spare parts 
term which allows it to cancel the cover if it cant get the parts it needs. But I dont 
consider that relevant here. Its my understanding that the only way to repair  a fault 
with the coil is to replace  the whole cylinder. This isnt a unique feature of the model  
Mr H had; I understand this is a common feature  of cylinders. So I dont think it would 
be reasonable to treat the coil as a separate part under the policy.  As Part  isnt 
defined in the terms and conditions, the normal, everyday understanding of the word 
applies  i.e. a separate  piece of something. But the coil couldnt be separated  from 
the cylinder. And the policy specifies that it will cover  (my emphasis) a replacement 
of parts of your central heating if we cant repair them. I therefore consider it 
reasonable to treat the cylinder  as a part of the insured central heating which  couldnt  
be repaired  and was therefore eligible for replacement.
Theres nothing to show British Gas considered or put forward the option  of replacing 
Mr Hs cylinder.  Instead, it advised him to buy a new combi boiler (which he got from 
British Gas) at his own expense. This purchase wasnt  covered by his policy/claim. 
Thats because there was no identified fault with the boiler  and upgrading a boiler 
would usually be regarded as a planned  capital  expenditure or general  maintenance, 
so not a fortuitous, insurable risk. Additionally, due to its age, the policy would  only 
cover its replacement in limited circumstances involving  a fire/explosion.
As Ive concluded that not indemnifying the broken cylinder was an omission on 
British Gass part, Ive considered the impact on Mr H. Im conscious  that, according 
to its records,  his old boiler was installed in 2000.  If the cylinder had been replaced, 
he wouldve been  left with the old boiler   which, given its age, was likely towards  the 
end of its lifespan. So Mr H may still have decided  to buy a new combi boiler rather  
than pursuing the claim. But British Gass error meant he couldnt make an informed 
decision about this  as he didnt know he had the option of replacing the cylinder 
under his policy. Given that hes repeatedly  queried  why it didnt offer him a 
replacement cylinder,  I consider it likely  that his position has been  materially affected 
by British Gass error.
Ref: DRN89030824However, Im also conscious  thatsetting aside Mr Hs costs the new boiler he 
bought likely put him in a better position  that hed be in if the claim had been met. 
The functionality and life of his new boiler system  is superior to his old system  even 
with a new cylinder. So I wouldnt expect British Gas to fully cover what he paid for 
the boiler. In the circumstances, Ive decided  the fair and reasonable solution is that it 
should pay Mr H the amount  it would have spentincluding  parts and labour
replacing his cylinder had he been given the information/freedom to claim rather  than 
upgrade. That means  Mr H will receive the same value he was entitled to under  the 
policy. But, as the new boiler probably  leaves him in a better position in the long 
term, I dont think it would be fair for British Gas to be responsible  for any additional 
costs he incurred.
Next, Ive looked at the handling of the claim. Its true that an appointment was 
missed. And I do consider there  to be some failings in how British  Gas 
communicated with Mr H. For example, its not clear why the claim was passed 
between British Gas and D. This was frustrating and inconvenient  for Mr H. 
Particularly as he was left without water  at a time when I understand he and his 
wife were caring for their young grandchild.  I appreciate  that British Gas remedied 
the error/delay  quickly, as the referrals between  its own engineers  and D only 
occurred across two days. But Im not persuaded that its fully appreciated the 
frustration and upset  this caused  Mr H considering his circumstances at the time.
I know Mr H was confused about  British Gas cancelling his cover.  However, as he 
got a new boiler,  his cover would always have needed amending. So Im not 
persuaded this in itself was an error. British Gas does admit that an additional cost 
was wrongly mentioned on the paperwork it sent Mr H about  his new cover. I havent 
found anything  which persuades me he actually incurred any incorrect  costs.  But I 
appreciate that the miscommunication  caused  him confusion and concern and added 
to his general frustration  about the claim  which Ive ultimately concluded that British  
Gas was incorrect not to indemnify.
I also appreciate Mr Hs frustration around his May 2018 claim, which  seems  similar 
to the one he made the following month.  On the evidence, I cant  conclude that the 
pin-hole was the likely cause of this earlier claim  and that British Gas should  have 
realised this. I do think the fact the ball valve needed replacing one month later 
suggests the repair wasnt satisfactory. This was remedied during the June 2018  
claim, as the (likely faulty) ball valve was then replaced.
Mr H has also queried why British  Gas told him the issue had been referred to 
independent arbitration when it had only been  seen by a local area manager.  This 
appears to refer to the terminology British Gas used  when  looking into his complaint. 
I appreciate why the phrasing may have caused  some confusion.  But Im not 
persuaded this adversely affected  his complaint. Many financial  businesses use 
dedicated teams to investigate and respond to complaints directly before giving 
customers the option of referring the matter  to our service. This often leads to 
complaints being  resolved efficiently and with agreement from both sides.
Ref: DRN89030825There will always be a spectrum of whats fair when  awarding compensation for non-
financial impact. Our investigator recommended a further £80 compensation on top 
of the £170 British Gas had previously offered  bringing the total to £250.  I do think  
this is towards the higher end of what Id consider fair. However, taking into account  
what Ive said aboveand the fact that Mr H has had to pursue the matter so far and 
for so long in order to get a fair remedyIm minded not to interfere  with this award. 
Ultimately, Im satisfied that £250 compensation does fairly reflect the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr H suffered due to British  Gass errors  and is in line with awards  
we've previously made in similar cases.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that British Gas Insurance 
Limited should pay Mr H the net amount it would have spent on parts  and labour in 
replacing his cylinder. 8% simple interest  per year should be added  to this amount 
from the date Mr H paid for his new boiler to the date of settlement (less  any tax 
properly deductible). 
British Gas should also pay Mr H £250 compensation (less any compensation its 
already paid in relation this complaint)  if it hasnt already done so. This should  be 
paid within  28 days of being notified  by us of Mr H's acceptance of any final decision,  
failing which interest  will accrue  at the simple rate of 8% a year from the date of 
decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
I invited both parties to provide further  comments/evidence before I made my final decision. 
Mr H said he thought  my findings  were  fair  but he would find it helpful if my final decision  
confirmed the exact amount British Gas should  pay, to avoid  any further dispute. British Gas 
disagreed with my provisional findings.  It confirmed  that the replacement cylinder would 
have been covered under the policy. But it said it provided the options to Mr H and he 
decided to get a new combi  boiler.  So, there would have been  no benefit  in replacing his 
cylinder. It therefore doesnt think its fair that it should pay for work which  never took place 
and which  it considers unnecessary. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision.
British Gas says it set out Mr Hs options and he decided to get a new, combi boiler. But Ive 
already explained in my provisional  decision why Im not convinced  that Mr H was given the 
option of replacing  his cylinder under his policy. And British Gass response  doesnt 
persuade me otherwise.  So I havent  amended  my conclusion  that Mr H wasnt  given the 
option of claiming  for a replacement cylinder  which British Gas has now confirmed that he 
would have been entitled to under  the terms of his policy.  
Ref: DRN89030826When our service establishes that a business has made a mistake,  we aim to put the 
complainant back  in the position theyd be in but for that error. As explained in my 
provisional decision, Given that [Mr H has] repeatedly queried why it didnt offer him a 
replacement cylinder,  I consider it likely  that his position has been  materially affected by 
British Gass error. So Im still satisfied that directing British Gas to pay Mr H the amount it 
would have spent  replacing his cylinder under his policy is a fair remedy. This award doesnt 
reimburse Mr H for his actual costs;  it compensates him for the value he was entitled to 
under his policy but didnt receive  due to British Gass errors.
Ive said British Gas should pay the net amount it would  have spent  replacing  the cylinder 
under the policy.  I understand  why Mr H wants my decision to specify exactly how much it 
should pay for this. But British Gas is best placed  to perform this calculation. For the sake  of 
managing expectations, I consider it worth noting that it may have contracts/arrangements in 
place which  mean  it can procure and install a cylinder for less than Mr H would be able to. 
Additionally, if an excess  applies, it will be entitled  to deduct this from the overall cost  as 
Mr H, rather than British Gas,  would have paid this amount if the claim went ahead.
Id reassure Mr H that, if he accepts my decision, British Gas will be legally bound by the 
directions Ive given  over what it should  pay. And Id expect it to provide  him with a 
breakdown of how its calculated this amount  based on how much it could have procured 
and installed  a cylinder for at the time of his claim.  
So, for the reasons set out above, my final decision  is the same as my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr H the net amount  it would have spent on parts  and labour in replacing his cylinder. 
8% simple  interest per year should  be added  to this amount from the date Mr H paid for his 
new boiler to the date of settlement (less  any tax properly  deductible).  It should also provide 
him with a breakdown of how its calculated this amount. 
British Gas should also pay Mr H £250 compensation, less any compensation its already 
paid in relation  this complaint. This sum should  be paid within  28 days of being notified by us 
of Mr Hs acceptance of the final decision,  failing which interest will accrue  at the simple  rate 
of 8% a year from the date of decision to the date of settlement (less any tax properly 
deductible).
If Mr H accepts this decision, it becomes legally binding  on both parties. So he wouldnt then 
be able to take legal action in relation  to any issues covered in this case. If he rejects  the 
decision, whilst that wont affect his legal  rights, British  Gas wont  be bound my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8903082