K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about the service he received from Tesco Mobile Limited  when he cancelled 
an upgrade to a new phone.
background
In September  2018 Mr N upgraded  his phone with Tesco  on its Anytime  Upgrade  tariff. He 
took out a credit agreement to do this. Shortly after upgrading, he changed his mind and 
contacted Tesco to arrange for the upgrade  to be cancelled  and he returned the phone to 
the store he purchased it from.
In October  he received  an invoice from Tesco for approximately  £800 saying he had failed to 
return his handset on time. The invoice  contained  a charge for the handset  and some  
charges relating to the cancelled upgrade.  
Mr N got in contact with Tesco and explained that he had returned  the phone  to a Tesco 
store. Tesco acknowledged that it had made an error and said it would cancel the part of the 
invoice related to the handset. A few days  later it offered to refund the fee of £48.33 that it 
had charged relating  to the cancelled  upgrade.  Tesco also offered an additional £30 to 
apologise for the error it had made. But Mr N didnt accept these offers.
Mr N wasnt happy with how Tesco had handled  things so he brought his complaint to our 
service. At the beginning of December, Mr N received contact from a debt collection agency  
saying he owed Tesco £48.33. He decided to pay the invoice as he was concerned about 
the impact on his credit file if he didnt. He sent the invoice through to us to consider as part 
of his complaint.
Our investigator looked at the evidence  and concluded, in summary, Tesco should refund 
the £48.33 charge, correct Mr Ns credit file and pay him £100 compensation. Tesco didnt  
agree with this and asked an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
the original error
Tesco has acknowledged that it was the cause of the original error. Its retail  store  didnt 
process the cancellation of the upgrade and the return of the phone  correctly. It seems to me 
Mr N should have been able to rely on the store  to safely ensure this was processed 
correctly. I understand  why he would have found  it stressful to receive an invoice seeking  a 
payment in excess of £800 for a phone which he knew hed handed over to the retailer. 
When he discussed this with Tesco over the phone,  it said hed need to go into the branch 
hed handed  the phone  into to sort things out. Initially Mr N asked his partner to try and 
handle this as he was a long way from the store. But Tesco said she wasnt  able to, it would 
need to be Mr N himself. 
So Mr N travelled a considerable  distance from where he lives to the store where he handed 
the phone  back. I accept  he didnt  tell Tesco that he would have to make  this long journey. 
Ref: DRN81969762But in its submissions to this service, Tesco said if it had known about this journey, it would 
have found another way for the matter  to be dealt with. 
So I think its clear there  would have been an alternative way for things to be handled that 
wouldnt have involved Mr N making  a long journey. But its not clear why Tesco  didnt 
explore these options, as a matter of course,  given that it was responsible for the error which 
had already caused Mr N considerable inconvenience. And in failing to do so it caused  him 
further inconvenience.
the fee charged and the debt collectors
When Mr N cancelled the upgrade, Tesco reinstated a fee that it would have otherwise have  
waived. This fee was charged in line with the terms and conditions  of his contract.
After he complained to Tesco,  it offered to waive this fee and to pay him an additional £30 in 
recognition of having let him down.  But Mr N didnt accept this offer. 
That meant that the fee remained outstanding on his account and eventually it was passed  
to debt collectors to collect from him. When he received the invoice from the debt collectors, 
Mr N paid it as he was concerned about  the effect on his credit file if he didnt. I understand 
why this would have been stressful for him.
Tesco says that it was its standard procedure to pass  outstanding accounts to be collected 
and that Mr N should have been  aware  the fee would be charged as it was detailed  in his 
contract. So it didnt  think it had done anything wrong. 
But I dont agree. Ive not seen evidence to show that it was made sufficiently  clear  to Mr N 
that if he didnt  accept the offer of the refund of the fee it would remain  outstanding on his 
account and would be passed to debt collectors. This would have been a very simple thing 
for Tesco to explain  while it was dealing with his complaint. 
Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities, its more likely  than not Mr N would have 
accepted the refund  of this fee if Tesco had explained the consequences of not doing  so. So 
Im not satisfied Tesco did enough  here to make  things  clear to Mr N and in failing to do so it 
caused him further inconvenience and distress.
Overall, Im not satisfied  Tesco handled things well so I will be upholding this complaint. It 
caused Mr N trouble and upset as Ive explained  above. And I think it should pay him £100 
to reflect  this. 
I also think it could have  been much clearer in its explanations  about  the consequences  of 
not accepting  the offer to refund the fee. So I think it should now refund this fee and make  
the necessary  amendments to Mr Ns credit file as if the fee had been refunded when it was 
first offered.  
Ref: DRN81969763my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Tesco Mobile Limited  to 
Pay Mr N £48.33  to cover the refund  it originally  offered him
Make  the necessary  adjustments  to his credit  file as if the fee had been refunded 
when it was first offered
Pay £100 to reflect the trouble and upset it caused him
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8196976