K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) denied  him access to his 
account which included  his pension funds, for five months.
background
In 2018, Mr K placed his pension lump sum into his RBS account.  He explained that even 
though he is unfamiliar with internet banking, he ordered a card reader at the same  time so 
he could start using this facility. He then moved abroad.  
Mr K has explained that in late 2018, the debit card for that account stopped working.  Mr K 
says he was told by RBS that this was to do with an issue regarding  Williams  and Glyn bank,  
one of their other businesses. He told us that RBS had sent a replacement card to his 
address abroad, but that unfortunately he had moved before it arrived. Mr K says he 
organised a mailing address for a second  card, but he returned  to the UK before it arrived.  
He told us that on the advice of RBS, and while  waiting for the second card, he used another 
of his RBS accounts  to draw out money  - resulting in an overdraft of over £4,000.  Mr K says 
that once back  in the UK he arranged for another card to be delivered to him at a UK 
address. This card never arrived. Mr K says that in the meantime fees and charges were  
unfairly applied  to the overdraft, that he hadnt  received a statement for about  six months  
and if he had been informed about  the reasons his previous card stopped working, he could 
have taken action  to prevent the issue arising in the first place.
RBS say they sent the first and second cards  to the two addresses abroad that Mr K had 
supplied. The last card was sent to the UK address by post.  Unfortunately  the last card 
never arrived. They say cant  be held responsible for the loss of the card by the postal 
service. In respect of the card reader,  RBS have said that their terms and conditions  say it is 
the responsibility of the customer to order this equipment,  but there is no record of Mr K 
ordering the card reader. Regarding the bank  statements, RBS say they sent those to an 
address in the UK as instructed by Mr K. RBS say that correspondence  was sent to all 
customers regarding the developments  with Williams and Glyn bank. RBS have apologised 
for the inconvenience  caused and decided to return all the interest  and charges on the 
overdraft.
Mr K told us he was not happy with the response from RBS and asked our service  to look at 
what had happened. He asked us to think about  whether he should  get compensation for the 
trouble and upset  he has suffered as a result of this matter.
One of our investigators  looked into complaint. The investigator considered that RBS had 
done nothing wrong and noted they had reimbursed Mr K with the charges and interest on 
the overdraft. The investigator didnt recommend anything further. Mr K disagreed with the 
investigators recommendations and asked that his complaint be passed to me.
Ref: DRN88310992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regarding the debit  card issue - the first two debit  cards were sent to addresses  that Mr K 
had given abroad. I have seen a bank record  that confirms this. In both cases  Mr K moved  
before they arrived. Another card was sent to a UK address by post. This card was lost in 
the post. In these circumstances  RBS are not responsible for the delays  getting  Mr Ks debit  
cards to him; therefore  RBS cant be held responsible for the trouble and upset that Mr K has 
suffered. 
I have also seen RBS records that show Mr K instructed RBS to send his bank statements to 
an address in the UK, so RBS cant be held responsible for them not being sent abroad.
In respect of the Williams  and Glyn issue - RBS say that they sent correspondence  at all 
stages of the process to their customers. At about  the time this was happening  Mr K gave 
RBS three  addresses  for correspondence, two addresses were  abroad and one was a UK 
address. As can be seen  above this in part led to the issues  raised in this complaint. Had the 
correspondence been sent abroad  it is likely it would have  been  missed, as were  the debit  
cards. If sent to the same  address as the statements Mr K would never  have received it as 
he was out of the country. Had Mr K received  notification and been able to change his card 
in time he says he would  not have incurred extra fees and charges. However  RBS have 
already agreed  to pay back  any fees and charges on the account and therefore  he is in the 
position he would have been if he had had the opportunity  to change the card.
Regarding the internet banking issue, the terms and conditions of RBS say:
Customers must order the first card-reader for their online banking  services themselves, this 
is known as self-selecting. This is done from the security section of online banking. 
Mr K says that he is unfamiliar with online  banking. Mr K also says that at the time of placing 
the lump sum into the account he was told by a member of customer services that a card 
reader would be sent to him. RBS have no record of that order and there is no record of 
Mr K chasing up the delivery. So there  is insufficient  evidence to persuade me, on balance, 
that RBS have done anything wrong  here.
These are an unfortunate set of events, and Mr K has explained it has had a profound  effect 
on him. I can understand why Mr K was upset and distressed by what happened  - he was 
unable to gain access to his pension and he built up a substantial  overdraft  in a second 
account as a result. Hes also explained about  his living and employment situation,  and I am 
very sorry to hear about this. These were all taken into consideration when coming to my 
decision which is that RBS are to return all charges and interest on the overdraft as they 
previously volunteered  to do. This will return Mr K financially back  to where he would have 
been if none of the above  had happened. RBS have also apologised for the inconvenience 
caused to Mr K when  the card in the UK was lost in the post.  I consider this to be a fair and 
reasonable response from RBS. However  RBS are not responsible  for Mr K being  unable to 
get into his account and therefore cant be responsible for the distress and upset it has 
caused.
Ref: DRN88310993my final decision
I am aware  that The Royal  Bank  of Scotland Plc has made an offer return  £244.69 in interest 
and charges back to Mr K. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc should  refund Mr K 
£244.69 if it hasnt  already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8831099