K820x#14complaint
Mr H is a director of a limited company, which Ill refer to as N. Mr H complains that Allianz 
Insurance Plc declined his claim on his contents  insurance for N following water ingress.
Mr H has been represented by a third party  during this complaint. For ease of reading all 
references to Mr H and N include the actions of the representative.
background
N has a contents  insurance policy with Allianz that covers the contents of its premises. 
Following water ingress from heavy rainfall,  Mr H raised a claim for damage  to stock stored 
in the lower level of the building. 
Allianz said the claim wouldnt be covered. It said a condition of the policy  requires any stock 
stored in a basement to be raised  at least 10cm  above the floor.  As the contents being  
claimed for was stored in a basement and not raised,  it wouldnt  be covered by the policy.
Mr H was unhappy with this application  of the policy terms and complained  to Allianz. He 
said he did not consider the lower level where  the stock was stored to meet the definition of 
a basement as it is partially over ground. He therefore didnt think  that condition  would apply. 
Allianz didnt uphold the complaint. It said a reasonable  definition of a basement  is the floor 
of a building  which is partly or entirely below ground level. Therefore, the lower  level of the 
building fits this definition  and the condition  applies.
Mr H wasnt happy with this response. He said Allianz had sent its agent to carry out a risk 
assessment when the policy  was first taken out in 2015. And they had made a number of 
recommendations as to how N could reduce risk under the policy. Mr H said he had made 
changes to comply with these recommendations. He said if the stock stored in the lower 
level had not complied with the policy conditions, this should  have been mentioned  as part of 
the risk assessment. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that the complaint was not 
upheld. He said that as the part of the building  where the stock was stored was partially 
underground, it would meet a reasonable definition of a basement  and therefore the term 
would apply. He also said the role of the risk assessment is to assess the risk to the insurer 
and not to ensure Mr H was complying with the policy terms, ss Allianz  shouldnt  be 
expected to point out the stock on the ground.
Mr H didnt agree. He said this should have been  raised in the risk assessment visit. He 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz has said that the damaged stock  was stored  in a basement which means it would be 
excluded from cover under the policy conditions. The policy states  as follows:
Ref: DRN88392802Contents, Stock, Computers and ElectricaI Office Equipment which  are moveable in any 
basement or cellar must be raised  at least  10 centimetres above the floor.
So I can see that where stock is stored in a basement,  it would need to be raised 10cm 
above the floor in order to meet the policy conditions. Mr H also doesnt dispute this. 
However Mr H says he didnt regard the lower  level as a basement. He said although  it is 
under the main sales floor,  it is on a sloping site and part of it is above  ground level. He 
therefore assumed  the policy condition wouldnt apply.
I have considered whether this would be a reasonable  assumption.  From looking at photos  
of the premises, I can see that the lower sales level of the shop  is below the main sales floor. 
The main  sales floor is accessed directly from the street and is at ground level.  
As the policy terms dont  give a definition of a basement, Ive considered what a reasonable 
interpretation of this would be. Allianz have said the most common  definition is a floor of a 
building that is partially or entirely underground. I agree this is an ordinary every day 
meaning of the term. I have also considered  a reasonable  interpretation  in this instance. I 
think most people would understand a basement to be the part of a building  that is below 
ground level. I can see that to access the lower level of Ns premises  there are stairs from 
the ground floor level leading down. It is clear from the front of the shop that anything  below 
the main shop floor is below ground, as that floor is level with the pavement and no further  
floors are visible above ground. Mr H has said that although the front of the shop is under 
ground level, the back can be entered from the street. However  as the front is underground  
and Mr H agrees with this  it meets  the definition of a floor of a building  thats  partially 
underground. I therefore think the lower  level meets a reasonable interpretation  of a 
basement. 
Mr H also said that if the lower level of the building was considered to meet  the definition  of a 
basement, Allianz should have raised this during the risk assessment visit in 2015.  He says 
he had stock stored on the floor at this time, so Allinazs agent should  have  informed him this 
would not be covered  under the policy conditions.
Ive looked at the report that Allianzs  agent put together after the visit, to better  understand 
the purpose of that visit. This was also provided  to Mr H. The document states as follows:
This Risk Assessment Report has been  produced by Alllanz  Commercial  (the Insurer),  for 
the sole purpose of evaluating the Insurance risk, which the above named organisation (the 
Client) presents to the Insurer,  and to determine whether to accept such  Insurance  risk, and 
If so, upon  what terms.
So it is clear that the purpose of the risk assessment was for Allianz to assess  what  risk N 
presents in order to decide whether its willing to take on that risk. It also provides the 
opportunity for Allianz to request N to take action before it agrees to take on the risk. 
Although the agent would have been  familiar  with the policy,  I dont agree that it was their 
responsibility to check  that every  condition of the policy was met. Nor do I think this would 
have been a reasonable interpretation  of the purpose of the visit. The policy has a lot of 
conditions, limitations  and exclusions so it wouldnt be reasonable to expect the agent to 
check N would be covered under the whole  policy.  
Further, in the report provided to N after the visit, the agent answered a number of questions 
about the premises. One of these was Basement to which they answered yes. This makes 
Ref: DRN88392803it clear that Allianzs assessment of the lower level of the building  would meet the definition 
of a basement. Therefore  giving Mr H the opportunity to ensure  N met the policy conditions.
Mr H has said that he recognises the term relating to storing stock in basements  as a 
common term in commercial  policies. I therefore  assume he was aware that the term existed 
in this policy. So after receiving the report,  following  the risk assessment, that confirmed 
Allianz considered  the lower floor as a basement, it is reasonable to have expected that 
Mr H would know he would need  to take action  in order to comply with the term.
For these reasons I think Allianz have applied the policy conditions fairly in the 
circumstances. I agree  that the lower floor meets a reasonable definition of a basement, so 
stock contained  in it would only be covered if it was raised 10cm off the floor. Further I think  
the information provided about the policy  condition  was clear and it was therefore the 
policyholders responsibility to ensure  the condition was met. I therefore wont  be asking 
Allianz to do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint. I therefore dont require 
Allianz Insurance Plc to take any further  action.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H on behalf of 
Neptune Design Centre Bournemouth Ltd to accept or reject my decision before 
24 March 2020.
Sophie goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8839280