K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains the vehicle he acquired on a hire purchase  agreement  financed by 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) was not of satisfactory quality. He further 
complains that hes now being chased by debt collectors, for a payment he denies  owing.  
And that BMWFS has recorded incorrect information  on his credit  file which is adversely 
affecting his ability to obtain credit.
background
Mr B tells us that in September 2017  he acquired a new vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to 
as S. In April 2019 he reports that the vehicle suffered  a flat tyre and had to be recovered. 
He says the vehicle was recovered by A, a company, and returned to S for repairs. Mr B 
says that As collection report shows the vehicle as only having a puncture on its offside front 
tyre. 
Mr B says he was told the next day, by S, that the vehicle had much more serious issues. 
This damage  included  two burst  tyres as well as damage to two alloy wheels. He says he 
was told the damage  would  cost in excess of £2,000 to put right - although this was later 
reduced to £900.  Mr B told us he feels the damage  most likely happened where the vehicle 
was stored  overnight  and/or by coming  off the trailer too harshly. He thinks  the nature of the 
damage and the costs  of repair have been  exaggerated.
Mr B says hes also concerned that BMWFS kept sending him different  figures  about  what 
he allegedly owed.  And that its reported  incorrect information to the credit  reference 
agencies. He says this is affecting his ability to obtain credit  to help with his new business. 
He feels BMW shouldnt have instructed debt collectors  when the complaint is still ongoing.
BMWFS told us that it had rejected Mr Bs complaint as it had been  informed  the issues with 
the vehicle were caused by an outside  influence and not a manufacturing defect.  It said S 
had offered - as a gesture of goodwill - to repair the vehicle at cost.
It said Mr B had stopped  making monthly payments  and had been sent regular letters 
notifying him of arrears.  And that it had terminated  the agreement  on September 2018.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said shed viewed 
a video of the damage which showed  the offside tyre to be flat and split and the wheel badly 
buckled. And the offside rear alloy was damaged but not buckled. She thought if the tyres 
had been faulty at the point of supply it would have been apparent earlier.
Ref: DRN86547032Our adjudicator thought that BMWFS  was entitled  to terminate the agreement  as it had 
notified Mr B of the arrears and warned this action  would  be taken if he did not pay. As no 
payments were made  after April 2018 she thought BMW had acted reasonably.
She explained that whilst BMWFS had used different figures in its correspondence with Mr B 
- this had been  due to the changing circumstances. There  had been  a voluntary termination 
(VT) in June which had been reversed in July. And missed monthly payment reminders 
showed different  figures as payments were not being made. She said the account  balance 
owing at the time of termination was £11,115.24 but this had been reduced to £9,117.65 due 
to a rebate of interest  being applied. She thought  that BMWFS  was entitled to report  details 
of the account  to the credit reference agencies - and she could see it had taken steps to alter 
the record to show  the voluntary termination had been reversed. 
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome and maintained the vehicle had left his property with only 
the one punctured tyre. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman 
has been asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr B has experienced the inconvenience and frustration that has arisen from 
the circumstances of this complaint. Im sure that when he acquired this new vehicle he was 
looking forward to a lengthy period of trouble-free motoring. And whilst Im aware  that many  
complainants naturally  feel a level of anxiety, I recognise that - due to personal  health issues 
- for Mr B this is likely  to be increased.
Ive been provided  with a large  amount of information and Ive looked  at everything Ive been 
given. But whilst Ive taken everything on board I wont be commenting on each item 
individually if I dont  think it affects  my decision.  And where evidence is unclear  or 
incomplete and/or theres a dispute  about certain  facts - as is the case here - I have to make 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most likely  
explanation to account for whats happened. 
As there are numerous different aspects to deal with I think it might make things clearer if I 
put each matter under a separate heading.  But I think the most  important issue relates to the 
issue of the damage  that was caused to the vehicle.  And in particular how and when  this 
occurred. Almost all the resultant  aspects of the complaint stem from this so I think  its 
important that I explain  in detail how Ive reached my conclusions.
Mr Bs hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. BMWFS supplied the vehicle and its therefore  
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle.
As this was a new vehicle  its required  to be free from even minor defects - so if I thought the 
vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied Id expect BMWFS  to put things right.
And whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do take it into account.
Ref: DRN86547033damage:
Mr B called for his vehicle  to be recovered  after he discovered it to have suffered what 
seems to have been a puncture  to the front offside  tyre. I would say that - in the absence  of 
other information - Id consider  a puncture to be a wear and tear item that was the 
responsibility of the consumer - to have repaired.
The vehicle was collected from his home address  by A. The collection receipt - recorded that 
the reported problem was:
o/s/ front tyre punctured.  Faulty  tyre?
There was also a diagram  of the vehicle  with an X marked at the same point. The 
odometer reading was recorded as 5,259 miles. The vehicle  was taken to S and 
subsequently was unloaded and inspected. A video was taken of the vehicle and the 
damage that was found during the inspection. This amounted to damage to two tyres and 
two alloy wheels. And one of the wheels was buckled.
The dispute  is not so much about  whether the vehicle had suffered this damage by the time 
of the inspection - rather than about when and where  it occurred. Simply  put, it is Mr Bs 
case that when  the vehicle  was collected  it only had the offside  tyre puncture. BMW relies on 
a report it received from S which says that the vehicle had already incurred the damage to 
the two tyres and two wheels at the time of the inspection. Apart from the video and contact 
notes Ive not been provided with any documentation such  as job sheets or invoices.
I think, on a balance of probabilities, its more likely than not that the damage had occurred 
by the time the vehicle was collected  from Mr Bs home address. Ill explain why Ive reached 
this view.
Although the collection  receipt only refers to the front offside  tyre puncture  I dont think that 
means that this was the only damage. The relevant section of the collection  receipt  is 
headed:
Reported problem  and details of work carried out
And Ive already mentioned that in the relevant box the collection agent had written:
O/S front tyre punctured.  Faulty tyre?
So I think this represents no more than a written  record  of what  the collection agent  was told 
was the reason the vehicle needed  to be recovered. It wasnt the result of a detailed 
inspection of the vehicle. The flat tyre would have been immediately  obvious  and - as the 
agent was going to recover the vehicle to S - and not conduct  the repairs himself, I cant see 
why he would have  needed to do anything other  than load the vehicle and take it to S.
In order to put the vehicle back in roadworthy condition S was required to do a full inspection  
and that is where  the additional faults  are first identified.
Although there is no report  from an independent  expert about the condition  of the vehicle I 
dont think this makes any difference. The vehicle was supplied as new around seven 
months prior to the recovery date and had covered over 5,000 miles. This would not have 
been feasible with this extent of damage  if the faults had been present at the point  of supply. 
Ref: DRN86547034And whilst Mr B has indicated he thinks the damage  most probably occurred after the vehicle 
had been collected by A - its necessary for me to formally decide I dont think  there is 
anything to suggest the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality when supplied.
Theres no evidence of any manufacturing defect and typically punctures  and/or buckled 
wheels are the result of impacting with other  objects  such as kerbs,  potholes  or other  debris 
on the road surface.
The fact that the vehicle  was recovered from Mr Bs home address  does  not to my mind  take 
matters further. I can infer that the damage  had occurred reasonably close to the time Mr B 
asked for it to be recovered - as hes mentioned on several occasions how inconvenient it 
was to be without  a vehicle. And - as the vehicle couldnt be driven  far in the reported 
condition - its likely it occurred and was reported without undue delay. 
Im not saying that Mr B would necessarily  be aware of the damage immediately it occurred 
as some road surfaces  are uneven and not well maintained and bumps and potholes  are 
an everyday hazard of modern motoring. So its possible  he wasnt  aware of the full extent of 
the damage himself  - other  than the puncture - before it was pointed  out.
And I can see why - if he was unaware of the causation  - hed be reluctant to make an 
insurance claim - even if he was covered for this eventuality.
Although S is not a party  to this complaint I note that it did make  an offer to repair the vehicle 
at cost price.
Ive also seen nothing  to indicate the damage was occasioned during transit to S or whilst 
being unloaded. Taking all these  factors into account I think it more likely  than not that all the 
damage reported by S had occurred by the time the vehicle was collected from Mr B. And it 
was not due to inherent faults  that were present at the time of supply.
I understand that Mr B is likely to be upset at this finding and so for completeness Ive also 
considered what  my decision would be if I had concluded the damage had occurred after it 
had been collected from him.
This complaint is only about BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited. And Ive already 
explained that it is liable for the condition of the vehicle at the time of supply. If a fault or 
damage occurs after supply - which is not due to a manufacturing defect or other  issue 
present at the point of supply - then BMWFS is not responsible.
So if this damage  occurred after the vehicle  was collected from Mr B - and Im not saying it 
was - then BMWFS would  not be liable.  As part of the terms and conditions  of the agreement 
Mr B is required to maintain the vehicle in good  condition. This means that any damage to 
the vehicle which occurs after the point  of supply - and which  is not due to any issue  present 
at the point of supply  - is his responsibility  to put right.
Mr B was informed by a letter from a solicitor - instructed by S - that it was separate  
business to BMWFS. And whilst  I understand that it can be confusing if a business includes 
a global  brand name within  its title I can confirm that BMWFS  is a separate  company to S. 
And this means  it has a separate legal entity.  
Ref: DRN86547035So - if Mr B was able to show  that damage  occurred  after the vehicle was collected - he 
might be able to make  a claim against A and/or  S. But as neither of these businesses is a 
party to this complaint,  I cant make  any awards  in respect  of anything they might have done 
after the vehicle  had been collected  from Mr B. 
payments:
Mr B has not made any payments under the agreement  since  April 2018. As I dont think  
BMWFS is liable for the damage  to the vehicle,  or for the repairs  costs,  it follows  I dont think 
Mr B had any proper reason to stop making payments. The terms and conditions  of the 
agreement he entered required  monthly payments to be made and when Mr B ceased  
paying he breached the terms of the agreement.
voluntary termination:
On 11 June 2018 Mr B purported to end the agreement  and he made specific reference  to 
clause 7 (m) as being the ground  on which he thought  he was able to do so - without having 
any future liability to BMWFS.
Our adjudicator correctly  observed that this clause relates only to grounds that BMWFS is 
able to use if it wants to terminate an agreement. So Mr B was unable  to use this reason.
BMWFS, reasonably in my view, interpreted this as meaning Mr B wished to voluntarily 
terminate the agreement.  And so it put this in process.  But when Mr B made  it clear  that he 
didnt wish to voluntarily  terminate the agreement BMWFS took steps  to reverse this. The 
result was that the terms of the original  agreement remained  in place and Mr B was still 
required to make the contractual monthly  payments. 
termination of the agreement  by BMWFS:
Mr B had stopped  making payments after April 2018 and so arrears  were accumulating  each  
successive month. BMWFS sent Mr B a notice of arrears in June 2018. And in July it sent 
him a default  notice  which set out the potential consequences of not paying. These included 
the agreement  being terminated,  action to recover the vehicle and recording a default  on his 
credit file.
In August  BMWFS sent Mr B a letter saying it intended to terminate  the agreement  and 
recover the vehicle.  And the agreement was formally terminated on 10 September  2018.
I think BMWFS acted fairly as it had notified  Mr B of its intended course  of action. And when 
he did not pay it was entitled to cancel  the agreement and repossess the vehicle.
confusion over payments:
There have been  a number of notifications  sent to Mr B about the amounts owed under this 
agreement at various stages. Whilst I understand that this might  result in some  confusion I 
dont think BMWFS has done anything  wrong. The circumstances relating to this account 
were changing  each month - as payments were not being made - so the arrears figure was 
increasing.
And adjustments had to be made as the figure  provided for voluntary termination was no 
longer applicable once  Mr B had made it clear he didnt wish to exercise this option.
Ref: DRN86547036Once the vehicle was repossessed BMWFS notified Mr B of the balance  which  was owed on 
his account - £11,115, 24. But its subsequently  reduced this figure - to £9,117.65 to take 
account of interest  that is to be rebated. 
So I dont  think BMWFS did anything wrong in keeping Mr B informed as to the state of the 
account - even if that meant it had - from time to time - to send different figures.
credit file entries:
I can see BMWFS has recorded a default on Mr Bs credit file as from 10 September. Given  
it had terminated  the account due to arrears  on payments I think it was fair to do so.
The credit report Ive seen  was said to be generated on 4 January 2019.  And it also shows 
the balance outstanding of £11,115.  But Ive seen  a screen shot of a BMWFS  notice to 
amend this, in November  2018, to the adjusted lower amount. Theres always  a delay 
between a notification  of an amendment and the recording of it by the relevant CRAs.
But I think BMWFS  has acted fairly in making  the arrangements for this amendment  to be 
processed.
Im sorry  if the default is causing Mr B to have difficulties in accessing  credit but BMWFS  has 
accurately recorded  the default  and its a matter for potential  lenders what  use they make  of 
the information.
collections:
I dont think it was unfair for BMWFS to pass the account to its debt collections team.
Rules laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority and to be found in its Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC) include:
CONC 7.5.3
A firm must not ignore  or disregard a customers claim that a debt has been  settled or is 
disputed and must not continue to make demands  for payment without providing clear 
justification and/or evidence  as to why the customers claim is not valid.
Here I think - for the reasons Ive set out in my decision above  - there is ample evidence to 
justify the view that Mr B owes  the outstanding debt. So I think  BMWFS was entitled to seek 
recovery of this debt.  
Id expect any debt collections  activity by BMWFS or its agents to take account of Mr Bs 
health situation and any other relevant information its been told about his circumstances.
And if Mr B finds himself  in financial  difficulty then Id expect  BMWFS to treat him positively 
and sympathetically  in seeking ways  to make arrangements  for the debt to be repaid.
In summary,  I find that BMWFS has dealt fairly with Mr Bs complaint. 
I think its more likely than not that the damage  occasioned to Mr Bs vehicle was caused by 
an outside influence  - before the vehicle  was collected - rather  than it being present at the 
point of supply.  And, based on this finding, I do not think BMWFS is responsible  for repairing 
the damage.
Ref: DRN86547037I think BMWFS was entitled to terminate the agreement after it had given  Mr B sufficient 
notice of this intention.  And that it has calculated the sum owed  correctly  and arranged to 
have the appropriate entries recorded  on Mr Bs credit file.
I understand Mr B will be disappointed by my findings and Im sorry that the processing of 
this complaint has taken  longer than wed have  wished. I accept that Mr B will have 
experienced the upset and uncertainty that goes with a complaint before the issues  are 
resolved. 
For the reasons  Ive explained Im not upholding this complaint and I shant be asking 
BMWFS to take any further action. 
My decision  also brings  to an end our involvement  as an informal resolution service although 
Mr B is free to proceed with other courses  of action if he is able to do so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8654703