K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about end of contract charges when his agreement  with Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) terminated. Hes also unhappy that VWFS  wont  
refund him part of his last monthly  payment.
background
Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with VWFS. The 
agreement was terminated in June 2018.  Following inspection and collection of the car, 
VWFS asked  Mr B to pay damage charges.
Mr B disputes the charges. He says the dealership looked at the car before it was collected 
and said there was no damage.
Mr B also says he had an agreement with VWFS  that because the car was being returned 
early he would only pay 55% of his last monthly  payment.  Hes unhappy  because  VWFS has 
taken the total monthly payment.
To resolve  his complaint  Mr B wants the damage  charges waived and a part refund of his 
last monthly payment.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said there was a period of time between Mr B 
leaving the car at the dealership and the car being inspected during which the damage 
couldve occurred. He also said there was sufficient evidence to show  that an agreement 
had been reached whereby Mr B would  only pay 55% of his last monthly payment.
VWFS accepted the investigators view in relation to the agreement  and agreed  to refund 
45% of the last monthly payment to Mr B. But it disagreed with the recommendation that it 
remove the damage charges and said that although  the dealership had told Mr B it couldnt 
see any damage, this didnt amount  to a full inspection and it was more likely that the 
damage had occurred whilst the car was in Mr Bs possession.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
VWFS has accepted that Mr B should  be refunded  45% of his last monthly  payment. So I 
wont focus on this aspect of the complaint any further. Instead,  Ill focus  on the damage 
charges and whether its fair and reasonable for Mr B to pay these.
The damage charges  relate to a split in the left rear tyre and scratches  to both rear wheels. 
The charges  for the scratches have already been  waived by VWFS so its the remaining 
damage to the tyre at a cost of £235.93  that Im looking  at.
The BVLRA guidelines say that damage  to the sidewall and tread of the tyres goes beyond 
fair wear and tear and is chargeable. Ive looked  at the inspection report including  the photos 
and I can clearly see a cut on the sidewall. Im satisfied that the damage  exceeds fair wear 
and tear in accordance with the guidelines and is therefore chargeable.
Ref: DRN88915152The issue  here is whether  the damage was present  when Mr B returned the car or whether it 
was caused afterwards. Mr B returned  the car to the dealership  on 15 June 2018. The 
dealership looked at the car with Mr B present and told him there was no damage. The 
salesman who looked  at the car has provided a written statement which  says Im surprised 
to find out from you there was a split in one of the cars  tyres.  I did a brief check around  the 
car before BCA came  to inspect the car and I didnt see any damage on any of the tyre 
walls.
The car wasnt inspected  by BCA until 25 June 2018. The split tyre was identified at the 
inspection.
Because the dealership  has said that it didnt see any damage  on the tyre walls, and 
because the car was at the dealership for approximately 10 days before it was inspected, I 
have to consider  whether its more likely that the damage was present when Mr B returned 
the car or whether it was caused in the period between return  and inspection.
VWFS has said that the dealerships walk around isnt a thorough  inspection.  Whilst I dont 
disagree with this statement, the distinguishing  feature of this complaint is that the dealer 
has specifically recalled  checking the tyre walls and not seeing  any damage. 
Although the dealer isnt BVLRA trained, Im satisfied that if the damage had been present 
when the dealer looked at the car he would  have seen it. I say this because  the images of 
the split tyre show that it is clearly visible. I think it would have been apparent to anyone 
looking at the tyres.  Because of this, I think its more likely than not that the damage was 
caused after Mr B returned the car and before  the inspection. So I dont think its fair of 
VWFS to ask Mr B to pay charges for this damage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should refund 45% of Mr Bs last monthly  payment and refund the damage charges of 
£235.93.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8891515