K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1981.  The bank cant  confirm 
where or how the policy was taken out, Mr O recalls  it was by post. The policy  gave Mr O 
protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  As the evidence is incomplete Ive based my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence  
and what we know about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Lloyds cant confirm the exact  price  of Mr Os policy but it has given a range (from  £0.59p to 
£0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance), and I have  used the higher cost for my analysis. It 
also no longer  has copy of the policy  document  so I have relied on the one from the nearest 
date available. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why. 
There isnt much information to go on in this case, because everything happened  so 
long ago. And I dont  think its surprising or unreasonable  Lloyds doesnt  have Mr Os 
application form any more. Ive thought carefully about what  Mr O said - that the PPI 
was added without  his knowledge  or consent. But I also have to take into account how 
long ago the sale was and how that might affect what  he recalls. Without stronger 
evidence showing  the bank didnt make clear  it was optional, I cant  fairly conclude  
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr O without giving him a choice, and him agreeing  to take it. 
Its possible Lloyds  recommended the PPI to Mr O. If so, this means  Lloyds had to make 
sure it was right for him. Mr O was entitled to three months  full pay and three months 
half pay if he was sick and had no savings or other  insurances. The PPI would have 
paid out in addition to his work  benefits for up to 12 months for all successful accident 
and sickness claims.  It also gave him 12 months redundancy  cover. So, overall, I think 
the PPI wouldve  been useful to Mr O if he was sick or lost his job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  However, it seems  he wouldnt  have  been affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy  
wouldve been  competitively priced,  and it was apparently  affordable. So I think  it 
unlikely Mr O wouldve made  a different decision  if better  information  had been 
provided. On balance I think he would still have taken out the policy.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Ref: DRN84756012Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank 
plc does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr O any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8475601