K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about a call he received from HSBC UK Bank  Plc. 
background
Mr S received a call in February from HSBC. He says he could hear some noise in the 
background  perhaps from a call centre   but nobody answered  him when he spoke. He 
says the caller then disconnected the call after around 30 seconds. The call took place just 
after 6pm in the evening. 
Mr S says he called  HSBC back and was told its safeguarding team had tried to call him. 
However, he says he was told that department  closed at 6pm so he wasnt  able to speak  to 
them now.  
Mr S complained to HSBC. He wasnt happy  that hed received a silent call from HSBC and 
that it had been made after that department had closed. He said he strongly  disagreed with 
the practice of silent calls and said it was likely  caused by HSBC using an automatic dialler. 
He was also unhappy that he couldnt  find out why the safeguarding team had tried to call 
him. 
HSBC didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said their contact notes for that particular  
call showed that Mr S hadnt responded/answered.  It explained the safeguarding team made  
calls until 8pm so the call to Mr S hadnt  been made after the department closed.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said the recording of the call 
wasnt available but HSBCs contact  notes suggested the caller didnt think  Mr S had 
responded. He said it was likely  the caller hung  up at the same  time Mr S answered the 
phone and it took some time for it to disconnect the call. Overall, he didnt think there had 
been any significant impact on Mr S. 
Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that HSBC called Mr S shortly after 6pm on the day in question.  Both 
parties also agree that it was HSBCs safeguarding team that tried to call. Interestingly  both 
say that the other party didnt respond or speak when the call was connected. In the 
absence of the actual call recording, I think the available  evidence  suggest its likely there 
was a technical fault during the call.
This might have been down to HSBCs systems, but it could equally have been due to the 
reception on Mr S phone.  It might also have been (as the investigator suggested) due to the 
caller and Mr S coincidently hanging  up and answering at a similar  time.  Ive not seen 
anything to make me think this was a call that was made by a dialler  with no member  of 
HSBC staff on the other end of the phone.  So Im not sufficiently satisfied that HSBC made 
any mistake.  
Ref: DRN86031132Mr S did call HSBC  to find out why he received the call and I appreciate he was frustrated at 
not being able to speak  to the safeguarding  team at that time. But HSBC has since told Mr S 
the reason for the call and hes been  able to speak  to the department  that called him. I agree 
there has been a small amount of inconvenience  to Mr S. But I dont think this was 
significant enough to make any award against HSBC.  In any event, in order  to uphold the 
complaint (and make  an award) Id need to be satisfied  it was more likely than not that 
HSBC made  an error, and Ive explained above why Im not sufficiently satisfied that it did. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.  
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8603113