K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complaint  relates to a home insurance  policy he arranged through 
Moneysupermarket.com Financial Group Limited  (Moneysupermarket.com). He says that the 
questions he was asked  when enquiring about taking out the policy through  
Moneysupermarket.coms website werent  presented on a fair and clear basis.  
Mr W says the unclear questions resulted in him not indicating  that his house had previously 
been flooded. When his house was then flooded  his claim against his insurer  was declined 
and the policy voided, as the insurer said it would not have provided the policy had it known 
about the previous flooding.
Mr W is represented in his complaint to us and the submissions have been made by the 
representative on Mr Ws behalf. For simplicity, I will refer to all submissions from Mr W and 
his representative  as if theyve been  made  by Mr W. 
background
In November 2015 Mr W was looking to take out a home insurance policy and used 
Moneysupermarket.coms website to compare quotes from different providers. During the 
application process he was asked a number of questions about  his specific  circumstances. 
Mr W was asked to carefully read 11 statements about his property and adjust them below  if 
needed. The statements  were:
Is built with brick  walls
Is more than 400 metres away from water
Has a roof made of tile
Is not a listed property
Is not for sale
Has never shown signs of heave landslip or subsidence
Is your main  residence
Has not had underpinning or structural support
Is not currently undergoing building work
Has never suffered  from flooding
Has no significant  cracks on the external walls
After reading the statements,  Mr W was asked to confirm  that the statements accurately 
reflect the property  he wished to insure . The choices were either Yes or No let me correct 
some of them. 
Mr W answered Yes, indicating that the statements accurately reflected the property he 
wished to insure. The details Mr W had submitted, along with other information he provided, 
were then used to obtain quotes from numerous  insurers  and insurance intermediaries. Mr 
W proceeded with one of the quotes and the insurance policy was arranged with an insurer 
through an intermediary  Ill call H. Ill refer to the insurer here as A. 
Unfortunately, shortly after taking out the policy Mr Ws home  was flooded and he submitted  
a claim to his insurer. That claim was declined as Mr Ws property  had previously flooded  
around 2005. A said that Mr W had indicated his property had not been  previously  flooded  
when he was applying  for the policy and it had provided the insurance  on that basis.  Had it 
known of the previous flooding it said it would not have  provided the cover. 
Ref: DRN85613342Mr W says that he was aware that his property had flooded around 2005,  prior to his 
ownership, and he was keen to declare this to the insurer. He says he was 100% certain he 
had made  the correct  declarations when  applying for the policy  and he feels the error would 
not have happened had clear individual questions been presented to him, rather than the 11 
questions being  asked together. 
The information Moneysupermarket.com then shared about Mr Ws responses to the 
questions indicated that Mr Ws home had not previously been flooded  as this is the 
response that Mr W had submitted during the application process.  Ive seen nothing to 
indicate that the information Moneysupermarket.com shared did not accurately reflect the 
responses Mr W had provided during the application. 
Mr W has complained to Moneysupermarket.com,  H and A. The complaint against  A was 
considered by our service  and an ombudsmans decision was issued in that complaint. The 
ombudsman didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint and amongst other things found that the 
question Mr W was asked about his home  previously flooding  was clear and unambiguous. 
The ombudsman didnt  think  that the flooding question was made confusing or unclear by 
being linked  to the other statements. 
Mr W referred his complaint against  Moneysupermarket.com  to our service  and it was 
considered by one of our investigators. After looking at this complaint and the complaint 
made to A, the investigator felt the complaints were  the same  as they related, in part, to the 
question Mr W was asked about his home  having  previously flooded. 
The investigator explained that our rules allow us to dismiss a complaint if the subject matter  
of the complaint has been previously considered by our service. As the complaint against  
Moneysupermarket.com was about  the way the flood question  had been presented and the 
ombudsman had made a finding  about this, the investigator felt we shouldnt reconsider that 
against Moneysupermarket.com. Mr W didnt accept the investigators view of the complaint  
and the complaint was then referred  to me for consideration.  
After initially considering the complaint  I explained to Mr Ws representative that for the same 
reasons as the investigator had reached, I also felt this was a complaint that we shouldnt 
consider against  Moneysupermarket.com.  Mr W didnt accept my initial view so I agreed to 
reconsider the complaint further. I then considered the complaint afresh and issued my 
provisional decision on 18 September 2018. In summary, my provisional  decision set out the 
following:
my provisional decision  on whether to dismiss this complaint without consideration 
of the merits
Our rules are set out in the Dispute Resolution: Complaints section of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (or FCA) handbook. These rules are referred to as the DISP  Rules  and they 
contain the rules  which set out when the ombudsman service has jurisdiction  that is, when 
we have the power to consider a complaint. Neither  party claimed this complaint was outside  
of our jurisdiction or therefore that it was a complaint that our rules didnt allow  us to 
consider. 
The DISP  Rules also allow me to dismiss a complaint  where the subject matter of the 
complaint has previously been  considered  or excluded under the Financial Ombudsman 
Service1  
Ref: DRN85613343The subject matter  of the complaint against  Moneysupermarket.com relates to the clarity of 
the questions  Mr W was asked when applying for the quotations. That is something that has 
been previously  considered  by our service in Mr Ws complaint against  A. 
While the two complaints  are in my view very clearly related as they are both complaining 
about the questions on the Moneysupermarket.com website,  I accepted they are arguably 
two separate complaints. 
The complaint against A is about  A refusing Mr Ws claim and voiding his policy, while  the 
Moneysupermarket.com complaint is that the Moneysupermarket.com  website  questions  
were unclear, and that this unfairly induced Mr W into answering  incorrectly. 
After considering the circumstances,  I decided that our service should  consider Mr Ws 
complaint against  Moneysupermarket.com  and my decision was that Mr Ws complaint  
should not be dismissed.  
my provisional findings
I explained that I had considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in considering  whats fair and 
reasonable, I need  to have regard to the relevant law and regulations,  regulators rules,  
guidance and standards, codes of practice and, (where appropriate), what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I noted that Mr W had provided  detailed submissions  in this complaint, but that I wouldnt be 
referring to all of the points raised as many  of the points  raised  relate to the actions or 
responsibilities of A and/or  H and fall outside the scope of this decision. I explained that my 
decision could only look at the actions of Moneysupermarket.com  during the quotation 
process. 
Moneysupermarket.com offers a platform for consumers to enter some details about 
themselves and their property and those details are then used to find insurance products for 
the consumer  to consider. The features and price of the different products are then displayed  
and after comparing them the consumer  can choose  which one they prefer and if they wish 
to proceed. 
Mr W provided information about himself during the application process and was also 
presented with a list of statements about his property. Mr W was asked to read the 
statements and confirm  if they were correct. If they were not correct he would be asked to 
correct the ones which werent correct. There were 11 statements about Mr Ws property  
and one of the statements was Has never suffered from flooding . By indicating this 
statement was correct  Mr W was confirming that his property had never suffered from 
flooding. 
I considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012,  which  
refers to consumers  responsibilities and requirements around  disclosure  and 
representations made  before entering into an insurance contract. The Act only applies to 
contracts between insurers and consumers  so unless Moneysupermarket.com was acting 
as an agent for the insurer when arranging the policy, the Act wont be relevant. I didnt think  
that Moneysupermarket.com  was acting as an agent for the insurer in these circumstances 
1 See DISP3.3.4B(3)G (and DISP 3.3.4A(5)R)
Ref: DRN85613344and as my decision was only considering the actions of Moneysupermarket.com, the Act 
isnt relevant here in these circumstances. 
However, even if Moneysupermarket.com was acting as an agent of the insurer in this 
instance Im wasnt persuaded the complaint would be upheld on this point in any event. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 says that a consumer 
should take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when providing information.  In 
assessing whether  or not a consumer did take reasonable care the Act provides some 
examples of things  that may need  to be taken into account. They are:
the type of consumer  insurance contract  in question, and its target  market,
any relevant explanatory material or publicity produced  or authorised  by the insurer,
how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions were,
in the case  of a failure to respond  to the insurers  questions  in connection with the 
renewal or variation  of a consumer insurance contract, how clearly  the insurer  
communicated the importance of answering those questions (or the possible 
consequences of failing to do so),
whether or not an agent was acting for the consumer.
Mr W was not using  an agent or broker when he submitted the information on the 
Moneysupermarket.com website. He provided  the information himself.  I hadnt seen anything 
to suggest that Mr W had any problems with language  or submitting information on a website 
generally.
After considering the flood question individually and as part of the group of questions I was 
satisfied that it was presented clearly. Each statement is short  and although there are 11 
statements, there is only one thing to confirm for each of the 11 individual  statements. The 
flood question was specific, in that Mr W was asked to confirm  if it was correct to say that his 
property had never suffered from flooding.  
I appreciated the flood question was included amongst 10 other questions about  his property 
and that the questions werent all positive or negative questions. But I didnt think  that the 
inclusion of the flood question amongst other questions  made  any of the questions, 
individually or collectively, unclear or confusing. Mr W has said that he was aware of the 
property flooding, albeit  before he bought it, and I thought it was reasonable to assume  
someone whose  property had previously flooded  would pay particular  attention to the flood 
question. The flood question is again clearly  asking Mr W to confirm his property has never  
suffered from flooding and I thought it should have been clear  that by answering yes this 
confirms Mr W is indicating the property  has never  been flooded. 
I referred to the FCAs Insurance Conduct  of Business sourcebook (ICOBS) which  set out 
requirements to ensure  that any promotions are communicated in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. For similar reasons already explained, I didnt think the questions  Mr W was 
asked were unclear,  unfair or misleading  and it should have  been  clear that he was being 
asked to confirm  his property had never been flooded. 
I considered what Mr W said about ICOBS 5.1.1 and that this states that an insurer  should 
take reasonable steps to ensure a consumer  only buys a policy  they are eligible to claim 
under. The list of available policies Moneysupermarket.com  presented to Mr W was based 
upon the information he had provided. Had Mr W correctly indicated that his property  had 
been flooded I understand the policy with A would not have been available  for him to 
Ref: DRN85613345consider. Based upon the information Mr W had provided to Moneysupermarket.com I didnt 
think it was unreasonable to present  the policy with A, as he could  have likely claimed under 
the policy (subject to the other  requirements) if his property had not been previously flooded.  
I referred to an Association of British Insurers (ABI) paper entitled Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act Implementation Recommendations. This refers to 
discussions with various bodies, including our service, and puts forward  a number of 
recommendations for all customer-facing communications for all insurance  product lines.  
In particular, Mr W highlights where  it says that a long list of assumptions  is more likely to 
lead to misrepresentation, as consumers are less likely to read each assumption  and check  
it is correct. The FOS believes that assumptions should be used sparingly, and that where 
they are made, consumers should have to actively confirm the validity/truth of them. 
Looking at what Mr W was asked to consider and confirm,  I thought the process adhered  to 
what the ABI has suggested. Mr W was presented with multiple statements and there were 
11 questions in the group. I didnt however think that this was a particularly long or excessive 
number of questions. Mr W was asked to actively confirm the validity and truth of the 
questions and I again didnt think the questions,  in particular  the flood question, were unclear 
or misleading. 
Mr W says he believed he had made the correct declarations  when completing the 
Moneysupermarket.com web page and that his error wouldnt have occurred if he was 
presented with individual questions or statements to consider. However, for the reasons Id 
already set out I wasnt persuaded  Mr W was presented with unclear or misleading 
information when  using the Moneysupermarket.com website. The information presented to 
Mr W was in my view sufficiently clear  to allow him to make the correct response to the 
questions. 
Mr Ws response on the Moneysupermarket.com  website  was that his property had not 
previously been  flooded and that was used by H when proposing  the policy from A. The 
information, in particular relating to the prior flooding of the property, was accurately relayed 
to H and was used in the underwriting process by A when deciding  to offer the policy. 
I accepted that Mr W may have  been presented with a different set or format of questions 
had he not used Moneysupermarket.com. And that H, A or any another  insurance broker  or 
insurer might  have  different questions/formats  when consumers apply for insurance.  But, 
although the application process might be different with other parties, and some others ask 
single questions, I didnt think that demonstrated  the questions/statements presented  to Mr 
W through Moneysupermarket.com were unclear. 
Mr W referred to other reports and papers that considered the role and practices  of price 
comparison websites. For the reasons  already  set out, I didnt think there was anything  to 
indicate that Mr W was treated unfairly  or unreasonably by Moneysupermarket.com in the 
way it presented the questions/statements for him to agree with. 
Mr W also believes that it should have  been clear to Moneysupermarket.com,  A and H, that 
his home  had previously  been flooded as it has access to maps  showing previous areas  of 
flooding. 
I explained again that Im only able to consider the actions of Moneysupermarket.com and 
not A and H. It wasnt clear if Moneysupermarket.com did have access to information 
Ref: DRN85613346showing previously flooded areas. But even if it did it doesnt appear that information was 
considered in this case.
I explained that theres no requirement for Moneysupermarket.com to check  Mr Ws 
postcode and house number against previous flood records and I thought it was reasonable 
for them to rely on the response Mr W was asked about previous flooding. 
After carefully considering  all that had been  presented I fully appreciated the distress  and 
upset the flooding caused and the significant financial cost Mr W now faces. But, I wasnt  
satisfied that Moneysupermarket.com had misled or confused Mr W during the application 
process. 
I didnt therefore  think Moneysupermarket.com  should be responsible for any losses or costs  
Mr W now faces relating to the flooding. 
In summary  I felt that Mr Ws complaint was one that I should consider but having then 
considered the merits of the complaint against Moneysupermarket.com I didnt think  it was a 
complaint that should be upheld. 
Moneysupermarket.com said that it had nothing further to add in this complaint. Mr W made  
more detailed further submissions in response to my provisional decision.  Many of these 
submissions focus on some of the points Mr W already made  and were  considered  before I 
issued my provisional decision. In summary Mr W said and referred to:
Other external  parties who are looking at the role and processes of our service.  
Our processes and procedures and how this service considers complaints where a 
price comparison  website,  broker and insurer are connected.  
Our service considering complaints on a precedent basis   where  previous 
outcomes will impact  the outcome of subsequent similar cases.
The ABI instructions and guidance  and has asked me to give good reasons why they 
would not be followed. 
Its irrational for me not to act in accordance with the agreement between  our service, 
the FCA and ABI, and to ignore  the various ABI or FCA reviews  or responses into 
price comparison  websites.
Ive failed to grant him the benefit  of the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012.
Mr W believes our chief  ombudsman and the FCA should consider  the points hes raised  
about this case  and the broader circumstances and has asked that I refrain  from issuing my 
final decision  until others have considered  the circumstances of this case.
Mr W also contacted our Independent Assessor to ask that the issues  here be considered  by 
her. The Independent Assessors  office informed Mr W that it was unable  to consider the 
points Mr W had raised as they related to the merits of the case  and judgement  of the 
ombudsman, which are not things that fall within the Independent Assessors remit. 
my decision  on whether  to dismiss this complaint  without  consideration of the merits
In my provisional decision I referred to our rules  and that in certain circumstances I have the 
power to dismiss a complaint without considering the merits of that complaint. I was however 
minded not to dismiss Mr Ws complaint and went on to consider the complaint in detail. 
Ref: DRN85613347Neither party responded specifically to this point. I therefore see no reason to reiterate the 
points made  within my provisional decision,  other than to say that Im satisfied this is a 
complaint I should  consider, for the same  reasons  previously  set out. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
overall conclusions  as set out in my provisional decision, for what  are essentially the same 
reasons. 
I am again grateful for the amount of further  submissions Mr W has provided. Mr W asks that 
his complaint is considered by our chief executive  and chief ombudsman, and the FCA 
before I issue my decision.  I dont however consider that to be necessary and Im satisfied I 
have sufficient information, and powers,  to now issue my final decision.  Mr W has made 
substantial submissions and Im satisfied hes had the opportunity to present his case fairly 
for me to consider.  
I must again  remind Mr W that my role here is to consider the specifics  of this complaint 
against Moneysupermarket.com. Section  228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
(FSMA) states  that an ombudsman must determine  the merits of a complaint by reference  to 
what is, in his or her opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances  of the case. What  I 
must consider here is whether the questions  set out on Moneysupermarket.coms website 
during the application  process  were  unclear  or unfairly induced Mr W to answer  the 
questions incorrectly. 
I am unable  to consider the actions  of A or H. Nor am I able to consider the wider 
circumstances more  generally looking at the role and relationship of price comparison 
websites and insurance brokers and providers. 
Mr W has again referred to various reviews  and consultations by the ABI and FCA as well as 
legislation. Mr W believes it would be irrational for me to not act in accordance with the ABI 
paper entitled Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act Implementation 
Recommendations. These are things that I considered  before issuing my provisional 
decision and have  contributed towards my overall  findings. 
In my provisional decision I explained  that the Consumer  Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 only applies to contracts between  insurers and consumers. So 
unless Moneysupermarket.com was acting as an agent for the insurer  when arranging the 
policy, the Act wont be relevant. 
I dont think that Moneysupermarket.com was acting as an agent for the insurer in these 
circumstances, and as this decision is only considering the actions of 
Moneysupermarket.com, the Act isnt relevant  here. In any event, our service has already 
considered and concluded  Mr Ws complaint against the insurer and Im only considering the 
actions of Moneysupermarket.com here.  
My provisional decision refers to the ABI reviews and consultations and my view remains the 
same as set out in my provisional decision.  Considering what  Mr W was asked to consider  
and confirm, I think the process adheres  to what the ABI has suggested. Mr W was 
presented with multiple statements and there  were  11 questions  in the group. I dont 
however think that this is a particularly long or excessive number of questions. Mr W was 
Ref: DRN85613348asked to actively confirm  the validity and truth of the questions and I again dont think  the 
questions, in particular the flood question, were unclear or misleading. 
Mr W refers to the ABIs response  to the FCAs review of price comparison websites, the 
extracts of the FCAs review from July 2014  and a 2016 final report of the UK regulations 
network. These refer to broad areas  or issues that have been highlighted but Im not 
persuaded they alter my view around the issue in his case, which relates to the clarity of the 
questions Mr W was asked when using  the website. The wording of the questions Mr W was 
asked to read was straight forward. The statements were short and Mr W was specifically  
asked to read and confirm  the statements were correct. If any answers were no he was 
invited to correct  some  or all of the statements. Having considered the specific 
circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied Moneysupermarket.com  has followed the 
guidelines and acted reasonably. 
Mr W believes that Moneysupermarket.com, H and A all had information regarding  the flood  
risks in his post code  and area.  I cant comment here on what H or A may have known about 
the flood risks in Mr Ws area.  And I havent  seen anything that shows 
Moneysupermarket.com knew already about previous flooding in Mr Ws post code. The 
application process specifically asked whether Mr Ws specific property had been flooded  
and I think it was fair and reasonable in the circumstances for Moneysupermarket.com to 
rely upon the response Mr W provided. 
Mr W refers to Moneysupermarket.com changing  the format  of the application questions and 
introducing colour  to certain words  to, in his view,  reduce the chance of an error in certain  
questions. Moneysupermarket.com changing  the format  slightly by introducing colour doesnt 
in my view demonstrate that the previous wording without colour was unclear or misleading. 
Mr W asked that I give good reasons if I believe the ABI guidance would not be followed but 
my provisional decision addresses  this point. I explained that I think  the process followed by 
Moneysupermarket.com in its dealings with Mr W adheres to what  the ABI has suggested 
and what other parties, such  as the FCA requires. 
Mr W was presented with multiple  statements and there were 11 questions in the group. I 
still dont however think that this is a particularly long or excessive number of questions. Mr 
W was asked to actively confirm the validity and truth of the questions and I again dont think 
the questions, in particular the flood question, were  unclear or misleading.  
As set out in my provisional  decision  I dont believe the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 is applicable to this complaint. It only deals with the issue  of what  
a consumer must tell an insurer before entering into or varying an insurance contract. This 
complaint is about  Moneysupermarket.com  and whether the questions on their website were  
unclear which  resulted  in Mr W not correctly indicating that his house had previously been 
flooded.  
Mr W believes that our service deals with complaints on a precedent basis  whereby each 
subsequent case  will be determined following the approach set out in a previous case.  Each 
case considered  by our service, including Mr Ws, is considered  on its own merits. The 
outcome here has not been  predetermined or decided by any decision that may have 
already been reached on a similar case  against the same or other price comparison website. 
I still have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr W finds  himself in. But after 
considering all of the submissions in this case, along  with the requirements, rules, 
Ref: DRN85613349regulations and good practice that apply to Moneysupermarket.com,  I still dont believe the 
questions Mr W was asked individually or collectively were  unclear or misleading.
I dont believe that Moneysupermarket.com  failed to meet  its requirements  and its ultimately  
for these  reasons,  along with everything else set out within  this final decision, that I do not 
uphold this complaint.  And I am therefore unable to instruct Moneysupermarket.com to pay 
or reimburse  Mr W for any costs  or losses he has incurred as a result of his home  being  
flooded.
my final decision
I fully appreciate the disappointment my decision will bring to Mr W but my final decision is 
that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561334