K821x#15complaint
Ms S has complained about  Allianz Insurance Plcs handling  of a claim under her buildings  
insurance policy after she suffered an escape  of water at her property.
background
In 2016, Ms Ss home was damaged  by an escape  of water.  She made a claim under her 
policy which  Allianz accepted. It arranged for repairs to be carried out and for Ms S to live in 
alternative accommodation while these were being done.
In 2017, Ms S moved back in to her property. However,  she was unhappy with the quality of 
the repair work. Allianzs contractor came back to deal with the issues but Ms S remained 
dissatisfied.
In October  2017, Ms S provided Allianz with a list of the snagging issues.  She also 
mentioned damage  which she said had been  caused to items while in storage and to items 
in her garage.
In December 2017, Ms S provided  Allianz  with a list of expenses she had incurred during the 
claim for which she wanted reimbursement.  These  came to a total of £957.
Later in December 2017, Allianz asked Ms S to obtain her own quote  for the remaining  
snagging issues so it could consider a cash settlement for these.
In April 2018, Ms S provided Allianz  with her contractors quote  for the snagging issues. This 
was £18,011.  She also resubmitted her list of expenses for which  she wanted to be 
reimbursed.
In May 2018, Ms S wrote to Allianz to ask for compensation for damage to her carpets which  
she said had been caused by Allianzs  contractor due to the incorrect way it had refitted 
interior doors.
In October  2018, Ms S complained to Allianz that it hadnt responded to the various pieces of 
information and claims she had submitted.
In February 2019,  Allianz sent its final response  letter to Ms Ss complaint.  It noted  that its 
claims team had just sent Ms S details of a cash settlement offer but acknowledged that 
there had been  a significant delay. It offered £500  compensation.
The claims team wrote  separately  to Ms S offering £17,000 to settle her claim.
Ms S was unhappy  at Allianzs final response letter. She referred her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
Ms S complained in October 2018 because she had received no response from Allianz on 
four issues.  These were: a cash settlement for the snagging problems; reimbursement of her 
expenses; compensation for damage to items in her garage/storage; and compensation for 
damage to her carpets.
Ref: DRN84804122In January 2019, Allianzs loss adjuster wrote  to Ms S offering £17,000  to cover the cost of 
outstanding works to her property. It said: This figure is purely for works and for no other  
issues you may have highlighted in your correspondence. 
In February 2019,  Allianz issued its final response  letter in which  it acknowledged it had 
taken too long to offer this settlement. It offered £500 compensation for the delay.
Im satisfied that Allianzs offer of £500  compensation is adequate for the delay in making  its 
settlement offer for the outstanding buildings work.  I consider  that if Ms S is unhappy at the 
£17,000 settlement  offer,  she should make a further  complaint to Allianz and, if necessary, to 
us.
However, Im not satisfied  that Allianz  has fully addressed Ms Ss complaint. Its final 
response ignored the issues  of her expenses and the damage  to her contents,  including  her 
carpets.
With regard to the carpet damage, I can see that Allianz has said to us that it doesnt insure 
Ms Ss contents. Thats not the point.  Shes  not making an insurance claim; she is seeking 
compensation for damage which she says was caused by Allianzs contractor.  Nonetheless, 
I can see that in May 2018 Allianzs  loss adjuster  asked  Ms S to provide further evidence, 
including photographs of the damage. I cant see that Ms S has provided this. However, 
I consider that Allianz is still required to address Ms Ss complaint, even if only to confirm 
that the onus is still on Ms S to provide  further information to support her case.
With regard to the damage to the items in storage and in Ms Ss garage, I can see that Ms S 
raised these concerns in 2017  but it isnt clear from the file exactly  what resolution Ms S was 
seeking at that time. Since raising her complaint with us, Ms S has provided Allianz with an 
itemised claim for compensation for the damaged  items. I consider that Allianz should now 
consider and issue a final response  to that complaint rather than me seek  to deal with it 
within this decision.  
With regard to Ms Ss expenses claim,  she first submitted this to Allianz in December 2017. 
She submitted it again in May 2018. The claim includes  such things as replacement  light and 
curtain fittings which Ms S says she had to buy because the originals were lost or damaged 
by Allianzs contractor. It also includes food which Ms S says went to waste when she was 
required to vacate her alternative accommodation  at very short notice. And it includes 
various taxi fares and extra electricity costs. Ms S has provided supporting invoices for the 
claim. Although the loss adjuster has previously told Ms S it had raised  parts of the expense  
claim with Allianz, I cant see that she has ever received a formal response.
I think it is very poor that Allianz has not responded to Ms Ss claim for expenses and then 
ignored this when she made a complaint. I could award compensation for the delay and ask 
Allianz to now consider  the expenses claim. However, I dont consider this would be fair to 
Ms S who has been waiting two and half years for the claim to be considered. I therefore 
consider the fairest outcome would simply be for Allianz to settle the £957.97  claim in full.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Allianz accepted  my provisional decision.
Ms S didnt accept my provisional decision and considered  it contained errors. Her 
comments can be summarised  as follows:
Ref: DRN84804123she disputed that in November 2019 our investigator had recommended  that her 
complaint was not upheld;
she disputed that in January 2019  Allianz offered her £17,000 in settlement of the cost of 
outstanding repairs  to her property;  
she disputed that Allianz had issued  its final response letter  in February 2018;
she disputed that Allianz had asked  her to provide further details of the carpet  damage;
she considered  that Allianzs proposed settlement of £17,000  was inadequate to cover  
the outstanding repairs; and
she was still waiting  for compensation for damage to her items in her garage/storage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has expressed her dissatisfaction with my decision. I should clarify to Ms S that her 
complaint to Allianz was that it hadnt  responded to her on four issues  which  were:
a)a cash settlement for the snagging  problems
b)reimbursement of her expenses
c)compensation for damage to items  in her garage/storage
d)compensation for damage to her carpets.
Allianz addressed  that complaint by offering her a cash settlement of £17,000 for a) and 
£500 compensation for the delay in its response.
I have issued a provisional decision saying its offer of £500 compensation for the delay in 
responding to her is fair. However, I have pointed out that it still hasnt addressed three  of 
the four issues. I have  therefore instructed it to pay Ms S £957.97 in respect of b) and to 
respond to her on c) and d). 
Ms S may be disappointed because I havent  awarded sums in respect of a), c) and d). 
However, our investigator didnt look into these matters.
In respect of a), the cash settlement offer of £17,000, Im satisfied that Allianzs loss adjuster 
sent an email to Ms S on 30 January 2019  outlining  this offer. If Ms S didnt  receive this, she 
should contact  Allianz  to ask for a copy. I havent concluded that the offer is fair. I simply 
havent considered it. As I explained in my provisional decision,  if Ms S considers  this offer 
to be inadequate  (as she clearly does),  she may make a further complaint to Allianz and, if 
still unhappy, to us.   
In respect of b), the reimbursement  of Ms Ss expenses, even though Allianz didnt address  
this in its final response letter, I consider that Ms S has already provided  satisfactory  
evidence to Allianz and it should  therefore pay her the amount  she has requested.
Ref: DRN84804124However, in respect  of c) and d), I consider that I am unable to make a fair award  until 
Allianz has responded. That is why I have instructed it to do so. Ms S says that she has 
provided all necessary evidence. However,  in respect of c), damage to items  in the 
garage/storage, it is only since referring  her complaint to us that Ms S has provided Allianz 
with a full, itemised  list of the damaged items. In respect of d), the damage to carpets,  I can 
see that on 31 May 2018, Allianzs loss adjuster emailed Ms S asking her to provide it with 
photos and she apparently hasnt  done  this.
Regarding the various errors  which Ms S says were in my provisional decision, I accept that 
I wrongly said Allianz had issued its final response  letter in February 2018. This was a typing 
error. I meant to say it was issued in February 2019. I have now corrected  this.
I was correct in saying that in November 2019  our investigator had recommended  that her 
complaint should  not be upheld. This is what the investigator thought.  I should  point  out that 
the investigator was assessing only the fairness  of Allianzs offer of £500 compensation for 
the delay in addressing Ms Ss concerns. The investigator was making no comment  on the 
fairness of Allianzs  cash settlement offer of £17,000.
I have already addressed the other alleged errors in the provisional decision.
In summary,  I appreciate  that Ms S may be frustrated that she complained  because  Allianz  
hadnt responded to her requests that it pay her various sums in respect of a), b), c) and d) 
and I am issuing a final decision nearly  two years later which  has ruled  on the amount which  
should be paid in respect of b) only. Ms S may have expected that our investigation  would 
go further and would  have made a ruling  on how much Allianz should pay in respect of a), c) 
and d). However,  the investigator  didnt consider those  issues.  Consequently, Ms S will need 
to complain again about the cash settlement offer of £17,000 and wait to receive Allianzs 
response concerning  the damage to her carpets and to her items in her garage/storage 
before possibly referring these matters back to us for a ruling  on the fairness  of the various 
settlement offers.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Ms S £957.97 in settlement of the expenses  she 
incurred during the course of the claim. I also require Allianz Insurance Plc to respond to 
Ms Ss complaints concerning the damage  to her carpets and the damage to her items in 
storage and in her garage.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8480412