K820x#14complaint
Ms Ps complaint is about the administration of the transfer from an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)  provided  by Scottish Equitable  
Plc. Ms Ps complaint has been brought on her behalf by her Independent Financial Advisor 
(IFA). The IFA says,  in summary,  that Scottish  Equitable is responsible for Ms P not being 
paid the original cash equivalent transfer  value (CETV) of her OPS quoted to her and having  
to obtain a new CETV quote, which was lower  than the original. This is because Scottish 
Equitable was unable to provide the original transfer paperwork to the administrator of the 
OPS, and the IFA says the administrator had agreed  to pay the amount of the original CETV 
quote, if this paperwork  was provided  to it. 
background
The IFA submitted an online application for the transfer from the OPS  to the SIPP  on 17 May 
2017. On the same  day it sent the discharge forms, provided by the OPS  administrator, to 
Scottish Equitable.  The application was to transfer the CETV of the OPS to a SIPP with 
Scottish Equitable.  The CETV which had been  quoted by the OPS  administrator to Ms P was 
valid until 9 June 2017  so the transfer paperwork (i.e. the application to transfer and the 
discharge forms) needed to be with the OPS  administrator by that date. 
The online application completed  by the IFA gave an address for the OPS administrator  of 
Business A, at a Peterborough  address. However, the correct address for the OPS  
administrator was Business B, at a Sheffield address. Scottish Equitable  says it sent the 
transfer paperwork to Business  A, at the Peterborough address given in the online 
application, on 28 May 2017.  
The IFA says it contacted the OPS administrator on 17 July 2017, and discovered the 
transfer paperwork had not been  received  by it. It says the OPS  administrator agreed that it 
would pay the amount  of the expired CETV quote if the original  transfer paperwork was sent 
to it by Scottish Equitable. Scottish  Equitable  said to the IFA that it did not have the original 
transfer paperwork. It sent new paperwork  to the OPS administrator. These forms were sent 
on 1 August 2017. 
The OPS  administrator said on 7 August 2017  that it would not pay the amount of the 
expired CETV quote. A new CETV  quote  was then requested  in November 2017, and the 
transfer completed in December 2017.  The new CETV quote was lower  than the original 
one. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and concluded that the complaint should not be upheld.  
He said, in short, that he did not think Scottish  Equitable was to blame for the transfer not 
completing before the original CETV quote  expired. He said this was because he thought 
mail sent to the Business A address should  have been sent to Business B, as the two were  
connected. So the original transfer  paperwork should have been processed by the OPS  
administrator in time. 
In reply, the IFA sent our adjudicator a copy of a response from the OPS administrator to his 
findings. The OPS  administrator said the findings were factually incorrect.  It said it had only 
received forms after the CETV quote had expired,  in August 2017. It also said that the 
address to which the original forms were sent was not one to which it was connected.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2018. My provisional findings were  as follows:  
Ref: DRN86354042At the outset, I should make it clear  that I am only looking at the actions of Scottish Equitable 
here. Im not considering  a complaint  against  the OPS administrator, so have no power  to 
look into the part it played in things, and make findings on whether or not it has any 
responsibility for the original CETV quote  expiring. I can only look here at the part played  by 
Scottish Equitable.  
As I understand it, an application  to transfer  to the SIPP was made  online,  and the discharge 
forms, provided by the OPS administrator,  were  then sent by post by the IFA, to Scottish 
Equitable. It was then for Scottish  Equitable  to send the discharge  forms together  with the 
transfer instructions  to the OPS administrator.
The available evidence shows Scottish  Equitable sent the discharge forms together with the 
transfer application to the address  provided on its online application form  that of Business 
A, at a Peterborough  address. The discharge forms provided by the OPS  administrator do 
clearly say they should be returned  to Business B, at a Sheffield address. However, Scottish 
Equitable says it does  not cross  check the forms sent to it with the details given on the 
application form  the process  is automated. 
I do not think it would be fair to say Scottish Equitable  is responsible for the original transfer  
paperwork being sent to Business A, at a Peterborough address. It simply followed the 
instructions it was given  when the application was made. And, given  the nature of the 
service it was offering,  I do not think it would be fair to say it should sense check the 
instructions it was given  in the application.  I think  it was fair for it to act as instructed by the 
IFA. 
I appreciate that the IFA feels an opportunity for Ms P to receive the amount of the original 
CETV quote  was missed,  as Scottish Equitable  did not send the OPS administrator copies of 
the original transfer  paperwork  the IFA says it wanted as a condition  of paying  the amount of 
the original CETV quote, after it came to light that original paperwork had not been received. 
But I have seen no evidence that the OPS administrator offered to pay the amount of the 
original CETV quote, after it had expired.  Scottish  Equitable says it contacted the OPS 
administrator and it had no record of any such agreement. And the OPS  administrators 
response to the recent complaint made  by the IFA about the transfer makes no reference  to 
any such agreement having  been reached. In fact, it confirms that it did not pay the amount 
of the original CETV quote as the transfer paperwork was received after the expiry date of 
the CETV  quote.  So I do not think there is sufficient evidence to say Scottish Equitables  
initial failure (it later confirmed that it did have scans of the forms) to provide copies of the 
original transfer paperwork to the OPS  administrator has caused or contributed to Ms P not 
being paid the amount of the original CETV quote.  
I know the adjudicator  made the finding  that the OPS administrator should  have acted on the 
original forms,  on the basis of the Business  A address being part of the same group as 
Business B. But that it not something  I can look at here, as Im only looking at what  Scottish 
Equitable did. If Ms P feels the OPS  administrator  is responsible  for her not being paid the 
amount of the original CETV quote  that is something  she will need to pursue with it and, if 
necessary, The Pensions Ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN86354043Scottish Equitable  says its communication could have been better, once the problem with 
the original transfer  application came to light. In acknowledgement of this, it has paid Ms P 
£200 and £480 to the IFA for the time it spent dealing with things. I think  this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And, as I do not think it would be fair to say Scottish 
Equitable is responsible for the transfer not being actioned before the original CETV quote 
expired, I do not think Scottish Equitable needs  to do anything  else. 
Scottish Equitable  said it had nothing further to add. The IFA, on Ms Ps behalf, did not 
accept my provisional findings. It said: 
Due regard has not been given to the key issue of the copy  of the transfer  
paperwork. It would not have asked  Scottish  Equitable specifically to email  a copy  of 
the original transfer paperwork  to the OPS administrator if it had not been asked to 
do so by the administrator. 
Scottish Equitable  sent freshly completed  papers instead of copies of the originals. 
These papers  were dated  outside  the guarantee period  and could not be accepted. 
It maintains that had copies of the original transfer paperwork been  sent as 
requested, the OPS  administrator had advised that the amount of the original  CETV  
value would have  been paid. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to depart  from my provisional  findings.  
I appreciate the IFA thinks the OPS administrator had agreed to pay the amount of the 
original CETV if it received the original  transfer  paperwork from Scottish  Equitable. But I 
have not seen any evidence to show that the OPS  administrator agreed to pay the amount of 
the original CETV if the paperwork was received after the expiry  date of the original  CETV  
expired. The OPS administrator has made  no reference to any such  agreement  in its 
response to the complaint made to it by the IFA. And Scottish Equitable has told us the OPS 
administrator said it has no record of any such agreement. I also think  it unlikely the OPS 
administrator would have made such an agreement as I understand this is something that 
would need to be authorised by the trustees  of the OPS. 
In the circumstances, I do not think there  is sufficient evidence  to say Scottish Equitable is 
responsible for the forms not arriving with the OPS administrator  before the original CETV 
quote expired.  Or to say that its failure  to send the original transfer paperwork after the quote 
expired is what led to Ms P having  to get a new CETV quote. 
In summary,  for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision,  I do not think it would 
be fair to ask Scottish  Widows  to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN86354044John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8635404