K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the sale in 1997  of a mortgage endowment policy for which  
TenetConnect Limited is responsible. The policy (for some  £24,000  but with life cover of 
£50,000) was sold along with another similar policy to cover  a joint mortgage.  This complaint 
is about one of those policies. I think it fair to summarise the main  part of the complaint as 
being about the risks presented by the policy (and in particular the returns  he was told to 
expect) and the lack of alternatives  offered. 
background
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. Initially it said Mr M had come  to it too late under 
the rules which  apply. However, in any event, it did respond to the points made  by Mr M. It 
explained that the documentation from the time suggested that: alternatives were  discussed; 
Mr Ms attitude to risk was assessed  and that the possibility of a shortfall and the need for 
the policy to grow at a certain rate was explained.
Unhappy with that Mr M came to us. Our adjudicator  said that she thought  the complaint was 
not time barred. One of my colleagues  issued a decision to that effect. To be clear  I have 
read the file and that decision and I agree this complaint is not time barred.
Following that, and further explanations  from the business, our adjudicator  looked  at the 
merits of the complaint. She concluded  that the complaint was not one which it would be fair 
to uphold. In summary  she thought that, when tested against what was known and the 
expectations of the time, the sale was not an unsuitable one. 
Mr M remained unhappy and has asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. In response to 
the view of the adjudicator he said:
he wanted to know why he had never had any red high risk warning letters
the industry deliberately  underplayed  the risks involved  in taking out endowment 
policies (Mr M sent in a link to an article about  that issue)
he queried the level of risk but was promised  returns  which  never materialised
the policy is no longer  being used for a mortgage, when it stopped  being  used he says 
he was advised  to keep the policy for savings purposes
the selling agent hasnt done what it said it would on its website and (in summary) look 
after its clients
As a result I have been asked to issue a final decision  and have  been  passed the file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done that, I dont uphold this 
complaint. I know this isnt what Mr M wants.
Firstly I will deal with the more general points Mr M makes. Complaints about mortgage 
endowment sales  were made in large  numbers in the early  2000s. Overall some  £5bn has 
been paid in redress (approximately) following complaints and the actions of the regulator 
and ourselves. However not all policies were mis sold. Many policies did exactly what  was 
hoped for - reach at least the original mortgage amount plus a tax free surplus  (although 
latterly a smaller  one than originally hoped for). 
Ref: DRN83584882The points Mr M makes  about risk, and others  about how these policies  were  sold, are very 
familiar to me (and the adjudicator). They have all been discussed  and debated  in public 
extensively over the years. Such discussions and enquiries have involved all the parties  
such as consumers, government, regulators  and the industry. There  is little more to say 
about these sales  which helps here.  
We are not the regulator, we deal with individual complaints on a case by case  basis.  As I 
say I am very familiar with the issues surrounding  the sale. However  I also must remember I 
cant use hindsight in making a decision. I also bear in mind that many policies did exactly 
what they were intended  to do (whether mis-sold  or not). All I can do here is decide whether, 
on balance, and on the evidence, this individual policy was in fact mis-sold.
As regards  the red letters, the product provider was responsible  for issuing  them. If Mr M 
didnt get them then he needs to speak to that business not this one. It is entirely possible, 
although this is speculation on my part, that the policy was not one which  required a red 
letter, that is at the highest rate of projection going forward  it didnt  show a likely  shortfall.  In 
any event if the policy  is not being  used for a mortgage it could be argued strictly the product 
provider is no longer under an obligation to send  warning letters,  although  many  still do. 
Also Mr M says he was advised  to keep the policy after 2 years as a savings plan. I cannot 
say whether that was good advice  or not. However  it is not of itself necessarily bad advice.  It 
is, however, commonly very bad advice to surrender or stop paying into a long term product 
like this after a short period. 
As regards  the business website,  that is not for me to comment on. Only if Mr M had taken 
advice and lost as a result could I look at any complaint. Any general complaint about  the 
way the business conducts  itself (including  promotional information) must be referred to the 
regulator.
I dont need to repeat what the adjudicator has said. Mr M and his partner were young  and 
buying a house together.  They were  sold two endowment policies for half the target amount 
of the mortgage.  That wasnt unusual at the time. The fund invested in here was thought to 
be low risk (some  would say very low risk). Mr M seems to accept he understood there  was 
an element of risk involved but not as great  an element as it turned out to have. Mr Ms 
attitude to risk seems  to have been  assessed  and recorded. The file is much as I would 
expect from the time, is broadly compliant and doesnt record  an obviously bad sale.
Like the adjudicator  before me I have seen nothing to persuade  me any guarantee about 
returns was given. Mr M may well have been  given assurances about future performance. 
That was not unusual at the time.  Returns had been high and many expected them to 
continue to be high.  I accept that by the end of 1999  the regulator had reduced  the rates to 
be used going  forward. That didnt mean  being  positive  about  future  returns  was an 
obviously wrong or unreasonable position  to hold. 
As regards  the other issues we would usually  consider such  as affordability and term there is 
nothing to suggest this was a bad or unsuitable  sale. It also seems from the file alternatives 
were discussed to some extent. I have to remember this all happened  20 years  ago. It is 
hardly surprising  if the evidence  and the sale is not what would be expected  today.
Ref: DRN83584883my final decision
Overall, although I can see what Mr M says with the benefit of hindsight,  I dont  uphold  this 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Mike Boyall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8358488