K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that AXA Insurance UK Plc rejected a claim she made  on her travel  
insurance.
background
Miss G has a travel insurance policy  with AXA. She lives in Northern Ireland and decided to 
attend an event  in England. She booked  a ticket for the event, one night in a hotel and return  
flights.
Unfortunately the event  was cancelled. So Miss G didnt travel. She claimed on her travel 
insurance for the cost of the hotel and flights. AXA refused the claim.  It said the policy  had a 
two night minimum for trips inside the United Kingdom.
Miss G complained. She said that wasnt fair. It treated people  who lived in Northern Ireland 
unfairly, because they couldnt drive to an event  and back in a day. She said a home  area 
should not apply where  there  is a body of water to cross. She said it was discriminatory and 
she wants the policy wording to be changed. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend upholding the complaint. So Miss G asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss G, but I dont think her complaint should  be upheld. Ill explain  
why.
I know Miss G accepts  that her claim falls outside the policy  wording. But for completeness  
Ill explain  that the policy terms and conditions do cover cancellations of a trip, in certain 
circumstances. But the word trip has a specific definition in the policy  and the definition 
says that where  a trip is within the United Kingdom, a trip must include a minimum of two 
nights pre-booked  accommodation. Therefore Miss Gs trip is not a trip covered by the 
policy.
Miss G thinks that this policy term is unfair. In my experience,  its not an unusual one in the 
context of annual  multi-trip  travel insurance policies like this one. A travel insurance policy 
isnt designed  to cover all travel  down to, for example, regular commuting to work.  So a 
line has to be drawn somewhere  and the line drawn by this policy  (in common with many  
others) is that an insured  trip has to involve either travel abroad, or at least  two nights 
away.
In my view, its not unfair for a policy to define  the limits of what  is covered. No insurance 
policy covers all eventualities. I appreciate Miss G doesnt think  the limit AXA has chosen to 
apply is fair. But its clearly set out in the policy. The wording is clear. I dont think the fact 
that Miss G lives in Northern Ireland, or chose to fly to the event,  brings the trip within the 
policy. And I dont think thats  unfair in the particular circumstances of this case.  AXA made 
the limits  of the policy clear to Miss G before  she decided to book this trip. Its unfortunate 
that it didnt go ahead.  But that is, Im afraid, simply not something shes insured for. 
Ref: DRN89003862my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont think it would be fair to uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8900386