K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
hire-purchase agreement.  Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  didnt  sell the PPI directly, but 
has taken responsibility  for this sale. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Aviva as the seller in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Aviva had to make Mrs M aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her credit  agreement. I cant know for certain what  was said when Mrs M took 
out her hire purchase  agreement and PPI policy, and as it was taken out a long time ago it 
isnt surprising that theres little paperwork available from the time of the sale now.  But Aviva 
has provided a sample of the sort of hire purchase agreement that it thinks Mrs M would 
have signed at that time. I havent  seen anything to suggest this isnt the type of agreement  
Mrs M would  have  seen. The hire purchase agreement  describes the PPI as, Optional and 
the cost is shown separately to the cost of the hire purchase itself.
With the above in mind  I think Aviva made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI 
and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  
this.
Aviva didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her. 
Mrs M says the policy wasnt explained  to her and because she had a learning difficulty, she 
wouldnt have understood the paperwork. I think its likely Mrs M would have relied on what  
the sales person  told her, rather than just the paperwork. And while  the information the sales  
person gave her might  not have been  as clear  as it shouldve been, I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out. I say this because  she chose 
to take out PPI knowing the other means  she had to make her repayments which included 
some sick pay. And in any event the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mrs Ms sick pay. 
So having  considered everything  it looks like Mrs M wanted this type of cover. And Based on 
what Ive seen of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.   
Which means Aviva  doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
Ref: DRN84442432my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8444243