K820x#14complaint
A representative, on behalf  of the estate  of the late Mr M, complains about a several service 
issues encountered  when  closing accounts held with Nationwide Building Society.
background
The representative is unhappy that account statements werent received. Hes also unhappy  
that when they did eventually get sent, the statements were of poor quality which  made it 
hard to gain a clear  understanding of everything. A complaint has also been  raised  about  
delays in closing  the accounts and discrepancies in the account balances.
Nationwide has already looked  at this case. It acknowledged there had been delays in 
sending account  statements  and also in closing the accounts. So, it offered £175 
compensation in total. Unhappy with this outcome,  the complaint was referred  to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked at this case.  Overall,  she felt that, whilst there had been 
customer service  failings,  the compensation already awarded by Nationwide was fair and 
reasonable. And so she didnt ask Nationwide to do anything  further.  
The representative has since  expressed  his dissatisfaction with the investigators  view. 
Further submissions have  been  made  to our service and Ive carefully  considered all of 
these. In particular,  I note the representative  thinks that all his issues havent been 
addressed fully. And he feels  that there was clearly a systemic issue with the dispatch of 
statements which Nationwide have made no attempt to understand or address.  
This complaint has now been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  A lot of evidence has been filed with our 
service and I have reviewed it all. But this decision  will focus on what  I think  are the key 
issues in dispute.
The representative has raised concerns about Nationwides  inability to run appropriate IT 
infrastructure and has concerns surrounding structural  issues with its processes. But Im 
afraid my role isnt to comment on these. Im looking at the actions of Nationwide  in this 
specific case and whether I think it acted fairly in dealing with this matter.
A query has been  raised as to the figures  Nationwide gave in the valuation of the account,  
and this being different to the actual balance of the account. But as the investigator has 
already explained, Nationwide made it clear that this was simply a projected figure in a 
document to aid the application of probate. I dont believe  any error was made  here by 
Nationwide.
Nationwide was contacted to notify  it of the death of the late Mr M. And it does  appear  that 
the accounts werent closed as soon as they shouldve been.  But Nationwide  has 
acknowledged this error, along with the delay  in sending out requested  statements. 
Nationwide offered a total of £175 compensation in recognition of these  failings. 
Ref: DRN81480622The representative has explained to our service  that he feels hes entitled to more 
compensation. In particular, I note he thinks hes had to make a disproportionate effort  to get 
Nationwide to provide information which shouldve been readily available.  And I do 
acknowledge that Nationwide has not met the level of care and service  in this matter  which  I 
would expect. This includes struggling to clarify  certain transactions on the account. Having 
said this though, I think the amount  offered by Nationwide  is sufficient to recognise the 
failings. And I think this amount of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I therefore wont be asking Nationwide to do anything else. 
And as the investigator has already explained,  as the representative  is a third party in this 
case, I wouldnt look to award any such compensation for distress and inconvenience to him 
in any event.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the representative, 
on behalf of the estate  of the late Mr M, to accept or reject  my decision before
16 November 2020.
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8148062