K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (LB) gave  him misleading information about  the terms 
of his credit  card account. 
background
Mr D says hes held his LB Avios  card since 2007. He says since  having the card he heard 
on the media a number  of years ago that the card didnt have any non-sterling transaction  
fees for purchases.  He says he verified  this information by checking  the LB website. And he 
says this led him to expect he wouldnt  be charged such fees.
Mr D also says he noticed there was reference  on his account statement to non-sterling  
transaction fees for purchases that may apply.  He says he was surprised as there werent  
references to these charges on the LB website. So, he says he complained to LB about the 
matter and was told his card is subject  to non-sterling  transaction fees and that there are 
different types  of Avios cards.
In addition, Mr D says he believes  the information  about this matter on the LB website is 
misleading and not clear.  He says it seems reasonable for him to think the Avios  card 
referred to on the website  is his card. And he says if there are sub-sets  of Avios cards that 
fees do apply  to then this should be clearly stated. 
LB says it can confirm  Mr D opened his credit card account  in 2007 and non-sterling 
transaction fees have always applied to the account.  It says all fees including  foreign fees 
were clearly stated on the terms and conditions when Mr D opened  his account. It says 
theyre also clearly stated on each monthly  statement produced  on his account. And it says it 
wouldnt be feasible for it to have details of all historic products on its website.  
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint  shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said he agreed  LB isnt under an 
obligation to provide terms and conditions online. But he said he believes where it does 
provide information  then it must  be clear and not misleading. And he said in view of the 
information on the LB website, the fact that non-sterling transaction  fees do apply to his 
particular Avios credit card is misleading. 
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
I see the terms and conditions LB gave Mr D when he opened his account state that non-
sterling transaction fees do apply. And I think this information was clear and unambiguous.
Theres no dispute that the current Avios  credit card issued by LB benefits from no non-
sterling transaction fees. And this is reflected in the information on the LB website. But I 
Ref: DRN87346232have to decide whether thats  unfairly misleading  to LB customers such as Mr D, who took 
out previous versions of the Avios card.
I acknowledge Mr Ds argument in this respect,  but businesses are entitled to change  the 
terms on which they offer financial  products to customers. And I dont think its reasonable to 
expect a business to include a comprehensive list of all its previous terms and conditions for 
any particular financial product on its website. 
So, for these reasons,  I dont think LBs done  anything wrong. And this means I cant fairly 
and reasonably uphold Mr Ds complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Lloyds  Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8734623