K820x#14complaint
Mr M says The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as RBS) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
In 2003, Mr M took out a PPI policy  with RBS to cover a mortgage from a different lender. 
Mr M paid for the PPI with a regular  monthly premium, which didnt attract  interest. It covered 
him in case he was out of work  due to an accident  or illness.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ms PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
I can see Mr M signed and submitted an application specifically for PPI. There, he chose 
what type of cover he wanted  and the level of benefit. And he set up a direct debit to pay for 
the policy. This was all done separately  to applying  for or paying for the mortgage itself  
indeed, Mr M didnt  take out his mortgage with RBS; he took it out with a separate,  unrelated  
lender. So he wouldve  known he didnt have to take out RBSs  policy  to get approved for his 
mortgage. Overall, I think that RBS made  Mr M aware he had a choice about buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls 
doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether  RBS recommended the PPI to Mr M or not. The requirements  were 
stricter on RBS if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr M, Ive assumed they did. That 
means RBS had to check the policy was right for him. And based on what  Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr M doesnt seem to have been  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. And from what hes told us, he 
didnt have any other protection at all in case an accident or illness  meant he couldnt work  
which potentially left him at serious  risk. Its worth  bearing in mind  that if Mr M fell behind  on 
his mortgage,  he risked losing his home. So it looks like the PPI couldve really been useful 
for him in protecting his home  and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN82530542Its possible that the information RBS gave Mr M about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. Here, Mr M chose to take out PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And as 
I explained above, Mr M wasnt affected by any of the main  things  the policy didnt cover,  
and it couldve really  been useful for him in case something went  wrong. Since RBS were  
only selling their own products, they didnt have to give Mr M any information about their 
competitors products. This particular policy was not bad value  given how much it would pay 
out in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication it was unaffordable. And the PPI was paid on 
a rolling monthly  basis, so Mr M could cancel it at any time without a penalty. So even if RBS 
had given Mr M all the clear information  it should have, I dont think  its likely that it wouldve 
put him off taking  out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8253054