K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts complaint concerns his credit card account with NewDay Ltd (NewDay). He feels  he 
was given incorrect advice over the telephone by a NewDay agent and having  acted  on that 
advice it has led him into financial difficulties.
background
Mr T fell into arrears  on his account around October  2018. He had a £450 credit limit. He 
rang NewDay in February 2019  and says the agent he spoke to told him that interest would 
be frozen on the account until he made  a payment of £90 on the 26 March. After  that he said 
she told him he would be able to use the card as normal, as his account would be back  
within its credit limit. 
On the 25 March Mr T paid £150,  bringing the account back  within its credit limit. But he 
realised the interest  had not been frozen. He then paid off the remaining balance  on the 
2 April. He noticed on the 4 April that his credit  limit had gone  down  to £250 and says he 
wasnt notified of this. On the 9 April he rang NewDay again as his card had been declined  
and the agent told him that his account had been closed on the 25 March. He says he wasnt 
notified of that either. Mr T said if he been told his account was going  to be closed he 
wouldnt have cleared his balance, since without  that credit facility  it left him in financial 
difficulties having  to borrow money from his parents and taking a payday  loan which  he is 
struggling to repay.
NewDay confirm that Mr T rang in February and said he would pay £90 on the 26 March. But 
they said the agent had told him his account  would be frozen until then, after which  he would  
be able to use his card again.  She asked him to get in touch with their Collections team to 
set up a payment  arrangement and ask about  having the interest frozen, but he didnt. 
Regarding the termination  of the credit agreement, NewDay said Mr Ts account had 
exceeded his agreed credit  limit in October  and November 2018,  and also in January,  
February and March 2019. Because of that it made the business decision  to close his 
account. On the 2 March 2019  it says it sent Mr T a Default notice telling him he had to pay 
£44.14 by the 23 March  and in default it would terminate the credit agreement.
NewDay also say that on the 23 March, it wrote  to Mr T advising him it had terminated his 
credit agreement, and referred his account to their Debt  Recovery Unit. NewDay  accept it 
lowered Mr Ts credit  limit to £250, making that decision  in line with the terms and conditions  
of his credit  agreement and in line with their responsible lending policy. And it says it wrote 
to Mr T on the 4 April 2019 notifying him of this.
Mr T was unhappy with NewDays response  and so an investigator  from this service looked  
into the complaint  but didnt think NewDay had acted unfairly.  As Mr T didnt agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress  where  it is appropriate so to 
do. What I need  to decide is whether the Bank acted fairly  and reasonably in how it dealt 
with Mr T.
Ref: DRN86958442Starting with the call of the 20 February  2019  - the agent told Mr T that his account would 
need to be frozen because charges  had already  been refunded  to him. She meant the 
account could  not be used. I think Mr T understood that because he asked if once he made 
the payment would he be able to use the account  as normal,  to which  the agent said yes. 
But she also told him he would need to contact  the Collections team regarding freezing the 
interest going forward and setting up a repayment  plan, but he didnt.  Its correct  that the 
agent didnt mention the default but thats  because that wasnt  her role and that is why Mr T 
was asked to contact the collections  team. So I dont think  NewDay has acted unfairly  here.
I know Mr T says he did not receive any of the correspondence sent to him and I can accept 
that he didnt since I have no reason to doubt  him. But for the same  reasons, I also accept 
that NewDay did send  that correspondence  to him especially  since  it has produced evidence 
from their correspondence system  showing the letters were sent.
So, looking  at the time line I can see that after the February call, NewDay  wrote to Mr T on 
the 2 March with a Default Notice telling him what he had to do and by when - the 23 March. 
And that if he didnt  it would terminate the credit  agreement. As he didnt make the payment 
as asked, the agreement was terminated. I appreciate Mr T then made a payment on the 
25 March, but by that time the agreement had already been terminated.  And when Mr T paid 
off his balance  on the 2 April this was before he spoke to NewDay to learn of the account 
closure. So again I cant say NewDay has done  anything wrong.
The Lending  Code  sets out some  things banks can do when a customer  is in financial 
difficulty and that includes suspending  charges on the account. But they dont have to do 
that - what they have  to do is deal positively and sympathetically with customers  once it 
knows they are in financial difficulty, and it can do a range of things, depending  on the 
customers circumstances. NewDay did do this  when  Mr T contacted NewDay  it agreed an 
arrangement with him to make lower  payments  each  month against his outstanding  balance 
and it also refunded charges on his account. 
So, looking  at this in the round, I cant say that NewDay  have acted  unreasonably  here.  The 
actual advice given  by the agent in February on the phone was perhaps a little unclear, but 
Mr T was clearly  told what he had to do in writing  on the 2 March. I appreciate he did not get 
that, but NewDay acted fairly in sending it to him, and had Mr T rung the Collections Dept. 
back when he said he would then this problem may have been avoided.  So overall I cant  
say NewDay have  acted  unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against NewDay Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8695844