K821x#15complaint
Ms G says Northern Bank Limited  mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Ms G applied for a credit card in branch in August  1997 and the PPI was also sold at this 
time. Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Ms G disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Ms G, Northern Bank  shouldve  made  it clear  the policy was 
optional. It also shouldve  got Ms Gs agreement to take it out. Ms G says she wasnt told the 
policy was optional. As the credit card and PPI were taken out during a meeting I dont  know  
what was discussed.  Where I have limited  information about a sale, I have to decide  what I 
think is more likely  based on the information and evidence I have seen.
Northern Bank hasnt got any paperwork  from the time of sale. This is unfortunate, but 
unsurprising given how long ago the credit  card and PPI were  taken  out. It has however 
provided us with a sample application form which it says is similar, if not the same  as the 
one that would have been completed when Mrs G was sold the PPI. Within  this application I 
can see there is a separate section called Visa  Payment  Protection Plan and the customer  
can tick Yes  or No to this cover. I wouldve expected Ms G to read over this form and raise 
any questions she had at the time before signing it.
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Ms G knew  at the time
that the PPI was optional and that she decided to take it. But I can understand why she 
might not recall this now, as the sale took place many years ago.
Northern Bank advised Ms G to take out the policy.  So it shouldve  made  sure the policy was 
right for her. Based  on what Ive seen of Ms Gs circumstances  at the time the PPI was sold, 
I think it was. I say this because:
Ms G appears to have  been  eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Ms Gs told us about her circumstances  at the time of sale she 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the things the policy didnt  cover   like known 
health issues or unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop 
her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed needed to.
Ms G says she wouldve  received  employer  benefits at the time. The PPI couldve 
been of use to Ms G as it wouldve  paid 10% of the outstanding  balance on the card 
for up to 12 months if she couldnt work due to illness or if she was made redundant. 
This wouldve  been on top of any employer benefits she may have got, meaning she 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
Ref: DRN83187092I havent seen  anything to suggest the PPI wasnt affordable  to Ms G. And as the 
premium was paid monthly,  she could  have cancelled the policy  at any time if 
anything in her circumstances changed.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Ms G, Northern Bank  also shouldve given 
her clear  information about the policy so that she could make a proper choice  about  whether 
or not to take it out. I dont know what steps  Northern Bank took to do this and its possible 
some things werent explained  as clearly as they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer  
information wouldve  changed Ms Gs decision. I think  shed still have  bought it. I say this for 
the same  reasons I think the policy was suitable  for her.
Ive thought about Ms Gs comments carefully,  but these points dont change my decision.
Which means Northern Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Northern Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms G because: 
Northern Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms G about  that. Because  Northern  Bank didnt tell 
Ms G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Northern Bank  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
I understand that Northern Bank  has made a payment to Ms G for commission  which  it has 
then revised. Northern Bank should  be in touch  with Ms G with more details about this if it 
already hasnt been.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms G.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Ms G any commission  and profit share
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already paid some of
Ref: DRN83187093the commission and profit share  to Ms G but it should pay her anything  extra  it now
calculates she is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8318709