K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs S says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs S took out in 1998. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs S aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Mrs S has told us she applied for her card in a store to receive a 
discount on her purchases. FICL has told us the PPI was sold to Mrs S after she took out her 
card by phone.  The PPI policy was added to Mrs Ss account in May 1998 several months  
after her card application. So I think its more likely the policy was sold by phone. 
The sale of this policy took place a long time ago so unsurprisingly theres little information 
available from the time.  But as Mrs S took the policy several months  after agreeing to the 
card I think  she would have known she didnt have to take it in order  to have the card itself. 
And from the information available I dont have enough to say Mrs S didnt choose to take 
the policy.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs S so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs S has told us she would have received sick pay at the time the policy was sold to 
her and could have relied on her parents and husband to help make her repayments if she 
wasnt able to. So she didnt need the policy.  But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Ss sick pay and for longer. And while Mrs Ss parents and husband would have wanted 
to help, there offer to would  have  been dependent on their circumstances at the time which 
could have changed. So I dont think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Ref: DRN83608762Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so as she could have made 
a claim on the policy it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said  including that she didnt make  a claim when 
she was made redundant. I cant be certain  why as to the reasons Mrs S didnt make a claim 
under the policy  but as I have said above I dont think it was mis-sold and this point doesnt 
change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8360876