K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  will not refund some disputed  
transactions on her late fathers account. 
She brings  this complaint  on behalf  of the estate of her late father  Mr N.
background
Mrs E complained to Halifax  about  transactions on Mr Ns account between  April and July 
2018.  She explained he had been  in hospital since January 2018 and that she had been 
into a branch of Halifax that month  asking  for a block on his debit card.  Mrs  E says she had 
a handwritten note from her father  making  this request, so the block was successfully put in 
place.
Mrs E subsequently found out that a request had been made for a new debit card on the 
account in April and this had been approved  and issued.   The  disputed  transactions  were 
then carried out until July.
In July 2018, Mrs E returned to the branch to cancel some direct debits on his account  as it 
became apparent her father was unlikely to be returning home.  As Mrs E had no authority to 
act on the account,  her request was refused.  Although Mrs E says the manager did use his 
discretion to cancel  some  direct debits for her.  The new card was also blocked.
In December 2018, Mrs Es father sadly passed away.  And in May 2019, his account with 
Halifax was closed and the funds transferred to Mrs Es half-sister.
When Mrs E complained, Halifax initially said it could only investigate concerns which came 
from the representative of the estate.  It then explained that as Mrs E suspected her half-
sister to have used  her fathers account  without his authority, it may be a civil matter 
between them.  It didnt  think  the fraud  team would  be able to assist her.  
However, it did then request the funds back from Mrs Es half-sister  sufficiently concerned  
about the full amount being  paid out to one of at least three siblings.    Halifax  confirmed it 
had not been provided with any information  from the half-sister as the death had been 
reported over the phone and it had made the payment in accordance with its own guidance.
When Mrs E came  to this service, we initially upheld the complaint.  The  investigator  thought  
the transactions should be refunded to the estate as he was not satisfied  they had been 
authorised by Mrs Es late father.
But Halifax  did not agree  with the investigator.  It pointed out that where there  was a dispute 
as to the ownership of the estate,  it required confirmation as to who exactly was authorised 
to act on its behalf.  At this stage, there had been  no formal  grant  of probate nor was there a 
formal letter  of administration  in Mrs Es name.  In the circumstances, Mrs E was not an 
eligible complainant as far as the complaint was concerned.   
On reflection, our investigator agreed we couldnt look at the complaint   and explained this 
to Mrs E.
The matter  was then passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN89124752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were not able to help with every complaint that is brought to us. The rules  that we work 
under are set by the Financial Conduct Authority (the DISP  rules) and they set out certain 
criteria that need  to be met before  we can investigate  a complaint. 
DISP 2.7 says: A complaint may only be dealt  with under the Financial Ombudsman Service  
if it is brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant. And DISP 2.7.2 says A complaint 
may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant (or a deceased person who would have 
been an eligible  complainant)  by a person authorised by the eligible complainant  or 
authorised by law.
In the circumstances of this particular case,  I need  to be satisfied that Mrs E is authorised by 
law to bring this complaint   but I dont  think she is. 
There has been contradictory evidence presented to both Halifax and this service as to 
whether Mrs Es half-sister does in fact hold a letter of administration.   Most recently,  Mrs E 
has told us she thinks not.
But the question  of who is entitled to bring this complaint  on behalf of the estate of Mrs Es 
late father is a question which needs to be determined by the courts.  Without  that evidence,  
we do not have the power to consider this complaint as it has not been  brought by an eligible 
complainant.
my final decision
My final decision is that this service doesnt have the power  to consider the complaint 
brought by Mrs E on behalf of the estate of Mr N, because Im not satisfied that she is 
eligible to bring  the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8912475