K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that AEGON Investment Solutions Limited (Aegon)  failed to correctly apply 
a default investment instruction to his pension account. As a result a large sum remained 
invested in cash  for a period of around  one year.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
January 2019.  An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Mr H has said that he accepts 
my provisional findings. Aegon  has provided  us with some extensive comments. 
Although I am only summarising here what Aegon has said,  I have considered  its entire 
response carefully before writing this decision. Aegon has explained that some  time has 
elapsed since the case was first assessed  by this Service. And as a result  it says it has 
provided us with a number of items  that might already have been considered.
Aegon doesnt agree with my provisional findings.  In brief it says that the funds added into 
Mr Hs crystallised  account were an additional designation rather  than a future 
investment. And so it says that its processes worked correctly in applying those funds with 
the previous investment strategy  of cash. In summary Aegon defends its actions by saying;
the journey  to accept the transfer  payment was processed as expected
the journey  to move those funds into drawdown was completed  correctly
the email to the adviser was issued  without any failed delivery message and advised 
the investment  in the drawdown transaction
the adviser understood the process was manual  but didn't check the transaction  until 
a year later
the customer didn't  want a flexible drawdown  but wanted to use the existing capped 
drawdown and Aegon  provided the process  to do this
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Aegon is disappointed with the time that elapsed  between this complaint 
first being  assessed  by one of our adjudicators, and it being passed to me to decide. But as 
I explained in my provisional decision  it was necessary to consider this complaint alongside  
a similar  complaint against Mr Hs financial advisor to determine  where  the responsibility lay 
for Mr Hs funds  not being correctly invested.  And as a result I understand why Aegon  has 
needed to provide the level of detail it has in response to my provisional decision and thank 
it for the information  it has provided.
Ref: DRN88264202But those  submissions havent caused me to change my mind. It seems to me that Aegons  
defence is that its processes operated correctly as this was an additional designation rather 
than a future investment into Mr Hs crystallised  fund.  But it seems to me that is a relatively 
arbitrary definition that might fit Aegons internal processes but would have little resonance 
to an outside investor  or advisor.
It seems  to me here that Mr H and his investor understood that a default investment strategy 
applied to future investments to his crystallised fund. And I think  it is entirely reasonable for 
them to have concluded that the transfer of these funds fitted that description.  I dont  share 
Aegons view that they should have realised that this was actually an additional  designation 
and so wouldnt benefit from the default  investment strategy.
I entirely accept that Aegon  followed its normal procedures and sent an email to Mr Hs 
advisor to confirm the funds had been transferred  and were  waiting  investment. But I am 
also satisfied that email wasnt successfully received by Mr Hs advisor. Im not placing the 
blame for that failure on either party. But I dont think simply sending the email was enough 
to move the responsibility  for the investment failure  from Aegon  to the advisor.
But I do accept what Aegon says about  the advisor having an opportunity  to become aware  
of the problem when a statement on the account was issued. And I have reflected that in the 
compensation that should be paid, by only holding  Aegon liable for 75% of that sum. Mr Hs 
advisor has accepted  my provisional decision in respect of the remaining compensation for 
which I have decided  it is liable.
So, on balance I continue  to think it is reasonable to decide that Aegon  should bear 
responsibility for 75% of the loss that Mr H has suffered through his funds being  held in cash  
for around  a year. So Aegon  needs  to pay Mr H some compensation.
putting things right
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would now be in 
if his funds had been correctly invested. 
To compensate Mr H fairly, Aegon must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that it would have achieved if it had 
been invested in line with his default  account  settings.  If the fair value is greater than the 
actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than 
the fair value , no compensation  is payable.
 
If there is a loss, Aegon  should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by 75% of 
the amount of the loss and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would conflict  with any existing  protection or allowance  and since I am also making an 
award against Mr Hs financial advisor Aegon should  liaise with that advisor  to ensure the 
impacts of the two payments are considered  together.
If Aegon is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should  be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been  paid. 
Ref: DRN88264203The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax in retirement.  
Aegon should add interest at a rate of 8% simple  per year from the date of my final decision 
to date of settlement  (if compensation is not paid within 28 days  of the business being 
notified of acceptance).
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aegon deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much has been  taken off. Aegon should  give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual value of the investment at the date of settlement of this complaint. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the date of settlement of this 
complaint had it been invested in line with the default account settings.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, it would be reasonable to total all those payments and deduct that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct AEGON  Investment Solutions 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88264204EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains that AEGON Investment  Solutions Limited (Aegon) failed to correctly  apply a default  
investment instruction to his pension account. As a result a large  sum remained invested in cash for a 
period of around one year.
background
Mr H transferred some  pension funds from another provider to Aegon in March 2016. He received 
advice from an independent financial advisor  before making that transfer. His advisor asked Aegon to 
receive the funds, make  a lump sum commencement payment and then transfer the remaining funds 
to an existing  crystallised  account.
Aegon successfully received  the transfer from the other provider and paid the lump  sum to Mr H. It 
then transferred the remaining funds to his existing  crystallised account. But those  funds  remained 
invested in cash for approximately 12 months before Mr H noticed the lack of investment returns and 
asked for the funds to be invested in line with the funds previously in the account.
It wasnt clear to Mr H who was responsible for the failure to correctly  invest  the funds,  Aegon  or his 
financial advisor.  So he has raised complaints  against both parties. I will be deciding both complaints 
together in order to reach a fair and consistent view of whether something did go wrong, and if so 
where the responsibility for that error should lie.
Mr Hs complaint against Aegon was assessed  by one of our investigators.  Although he agreed with 
Mr H that he had lost out on some investment returns, he didnt think that was as a result  of 
something Aegon had done wrong. So he didnt  recommend  that the complaint should be upheld.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time.
I think  the basic facts behind this complaint are relatively  simple. Mr H arranged  for his advisor to 
transfer some pension  benefits to Aegon, for Aegon to pay Mr H a lump sum and then to add the 
remaining funds to Mr Hs existing pension  account. And that all seems to have progressed smoothly  
and in line with what everyone expected. But the very last stage of that process  seems to have 
produced an outcome  different to what Mr H and his financial advisor  expected.
Mr H already held some crystallised pension funds with Aegon.  And that account  had a default 
investment strategy applied to it that Aegon had explained would  apply to any future  investments. 
That investment strategy required that only 1% of the funds in the account  should  be held in cash. So 
when the additional funds were added to the existing account Mr H and his advisor expected Aegon  
to apply  that same investment approach.
But Aegon  says that wasnt the case. It says that in circumstances such as these  the remaining funds  
would be left invested in cash until it received a subsequent instruction. And it says it sent an email to 
Mr Hs financial advisor to let him know the funds were ready for investment.
I have looked carefully at the instruction  Aegon was given for the transfer of Mr Hs pension funds. 
And Ive considered what Aegon has said. In its response to this service Aegon said Mr H moved the 
residual amount to the existing Capped Drawdown plan. And the form Mr Hs advisor completed to 
arrange the transfer  said it should  only be used  for making an additional designation into an existing 
capped drawdown account. So I think it was reasonable  for Mr H and his advisor to view this 
transaction as resulting in the addition of funds  to his existing account.
Ref: DRN88264205As I said earlier, Mr Hs existing account had a default  investment  strategy applied to it. That meant 
that 99% of the funds  in the account would be invested in a managed fund with the remaining funds 
held in cash.  And when selecting this option Mr H and his financial advisor  had been told by Aegon  
that this asset  choice  would be the default selection  for future investments. 
Mr Hs advisor had asked that the uncrystallised  funds were received and be initially held in cash. 
That makes  perfect sense  since a portion  of those funds were to be used to provide Mr H with a lump 
sum. But when those  funds were crystallised  and moved to the existing  wrapper I think it is entirely 
reasonable to expect  that these  should then have  been added to that account in line with the default 
investment strategy for it.
It is clear that the residual  funds were not invested in line with the default strategy set out by Mr H. 
And I think that this was initially the responsibility  of Aegon. 
I have seen that Aegon sent an email to Mr Hs advisor shortly after the lump sum had been paid to 
advise that the residual funds had been added to Mr Hs existing account,  and were  held in cash  
awaiting investment instructions. But I can also see that there  was an ongoing issue between  Mr Hs 
advisor and Aegon  over the non-delivery of emails around that time. So although  I have no doubts 
that Aegon sent the email, I think it unlikely that it was received by Mr Hs advisor.
Given that Ive found Aegon was at fault for the initial  failure to invest  the funds  in line with the default  
instructions on Mr Hs account,  I think that responsibility  for the error  should remain with Aegon unless 
I find Mr Hs advisor  failed  to act appropriately. And I dont  think it fair to hold the advisor  responsible 
for not acting upon an email  that wasnt received.
But I have considered that it took 12 months before  the problem was identified. I understand that the 
problem was noticed during an annual  review  of Mr Hs investments and was corrected shortly 
afterwards. But I can see that a statement was issued to Mr H, and so most  likely available to his 
advisor, in November  2016.  And that statement showed that the majority of Mr Hs funds were  held in 
cash. So I think that it would  be reasonable to say that Mr Hs advisor should  bear some of the 
responsibility for his loss from that point  onwards.
On balance I think it is reasonable to decide that Aegon should bear responsibility for 75% of the loss 
that Mr H has suffered through his funds being held in cash for around a year.  So Aegon needs to pay 
Mr H some compensation.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8826420