K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Western  Circle Ltd, trading as Paydayloansnet, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss L took out two loans with Paydayloansnet, the first in November 2018 and the second  
in February 2019.  The loans were  repayable in three, monthly repayments.  Miss L repaid 
loan one but didnt repay loan two. A summary of Miss Ls borrowing with Paydayloansnet is 
as follows:
date £ amount 
borroweddate repaid
130 November 2018 300 18 February 2019
225 February 2019 300
Miss L says that Paydayloansnet gave  her a new loan within  a few days of her repaying the 
first loan, which she doesnt think was right. She wants Paydayloansnet  to remove the 
interest she still owes. 
One of our adjudicators assessed  Miss Ls complaint. He didnt think  that Paydayloansnet  
was wrong to lend to Miss L. 
Miss L didnt  agree  with the adjudicator. She said that she couldnt  afford  the loans. Miss L 
said that she is still in financial difficulties in relation to the outstanding loan with 
Paydayloansnet and with other lenders. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Paydayloansnet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure 
Miss L could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Paydayloansnet should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN88065152the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Paydayloansnet was required to establish  whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans 
 not just whether the loan payments  were  affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course,  the loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular, the customer  should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint.
When Miss L applied  for loan one, she told Paydayloansnet  that her income  was £1,180  and 
her monthly outgoings were £395.  The repayments for loan one were  around £150. Miss Ls 
income, outgoings and repayment  were similar at the time of loan two. So, I dont think that 
Paydayloansnet was wrong to conclude that Miss L could afford to repay the loans. 
I think that at the time Paydayloansnet gave Miss L loans one and two, it was entitled  to rely 
on the information Miss L gave. Ive seen nothing to indicate that it should have done more 
than it did by way of checks before lending to Miss L.
I dont think that Paydayloansnet was wrong  to give Miss L loan two shortly after shed 
repaid loan one. At that stage, shed been borrowing from Paydayloansnet for less than 
three months and shed  repaid loan one slightly early. There  wasnt  anything to indicate that 
Miss L couldnt repay loan two in a sustainable way. 
Considering everything, given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Ls 
circumstances at the time and her history  with the lender at that point, I dont think  it 
wouldve been proportionate for Paydayloansnet to ask Miss L for the amount of information  
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.  There wasnt  anything in the information 
Miss L provided or the information Paydayloansnet shouldve  been aware of, which  meant it 
wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying what  Miss L said about her finances. 
I note that loan two remains  outstanding. Id urge Miss L to contact Paydayloansnet  in order  
to agree a way forward. I remind Paydayloansnet that it should  treat Miss L fairly  in relation 
to any financial difficulty.  
Ref: DRN88065153Im sorry  to disappoint Miss L but, for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  uphold  her 
complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8806515