K821x#15complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is that she was advised  to switch her personal pensions into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) so that she could invest in an overseas property 
investment scheme  with Harlequin Property.  The advice  was given by an appointed 
representative of Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd, now Quilter  Financial  Services  Ltd.  Mrs  C 
thinks the advice  was unsuitable  as the investment involved  more risk than was suitable for 
her.   
background
Mrs C says she had known an adviser  at the appointed representative firm for many  years.  
The adviser and her partner introduced Mrs C to the idea of investing in Harlequin in 2010. 
She attended a seminar about Harlequin investments with them.  She says she made it clear 
she did not want to risk her pension  or mortgage.   She says they assured  her the investment 
was risk free and provided illustrations  to show how the investment was to work.  
Mrs C applied to:
set up a SIPP with Berkeley Burke
switched two existing  personal pensions (with a combined value of less than 
£50,000) to it
pay out £42,000 as the first part payment for the Harlequin investment.
The Harlequin investments involved investing in hotel rooms  or villas to be built as part of 
various developments in the Caribbean. Later the Harlequin investments got into difficulties 
and Mrs Cs investment failed.  Mrs C complained to Intrinsic (now  Quilter) about the advice. 
Intrinsics position was that it was not responsible as it had not authorised the appointed 
representative to give the disputed advice.   It thought the ombudsman service  could not 
consider the complaint against it.
I issued a jurisdiction  decision in this complaint.  I explained why Quilter is responsible for 
the advice and why the ombudsman service can consider the complaint.
One of our investigators  then considered the merits of the complaint.  She explained why 
she thought the complaint should be upheld and how things  should  be put right by Quilter.   
In summary  she said:
I had already determined in my jurisdiction decision  that Quilters  appointed 
representative had advised Mrs C and that Quilter  is responsible  for that advice.
The Harlequin investment was a specialist unregulated investment with a limited  
track record.  It ought to have been  considered high risk.
The investment  was not suitable for Mrs C who was investing all of her moderate 
pension provision and had no investment experience.
Mrs C should not have been advised to invest in the Harlequin scheme.  If Mrs C had 
been advised it was unsuitable  for her she would not have invested  in it.
Mrs C had not been looking to change her pensions and so if she had not been  
advised to make  the unsuitable investment she would have left her pensions 
unchanged.
Quilter should put things right by:
oComparing the performance of Mrs Cs SIPP with the way the pensions would 
have performed if she had not moved them and invested  in Harlequin.  If that 
Ref: DRN87498592is not possible the comparison should be with the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index.
oIf this comparison shows Mrs C has suffered a loss, compensation should be 
paid to Mrs Cs pension  or to her direct if that is not possible.  
oQuilter should take ownership of the Harlequin investment if possible to allow 
for the SIPP to be closed.  If it cant, compensation should be paid to cover 
the ongoing SIPP fees for five years.
oAnd pay Mrs C £300 for the significant  trouble and upset she will have 
suffered as a result  of the loss of about half of her pension.
Mrs C agreed  with the investigator.
Quilter did not agree  with the investigator.   It disputes that advice was given on its behalf.  It 
accepts that the advisers and the appointed  representative firms  details were  handwritten 
onto the application form and there is a letter from one of the ceding schemes sent to the 
appointed representative.  However  there  is no evidence that the appointed representative 
recommended the switch.   There is no suitability letter, fact find or key features documents.   
Intrinsic received no fee or commission in respect  of the switch and it has no documents 
relating to the switch.  
Quilter had previously said that the adviser had told it she only acted as an introducer and 
was informed by Berkeley Burke that she was eligible for an introducers fee.  Quilter  said 
the fee was a non-regulated introducer fee so this was not business  authorised  by Quilter.   
my findings
On a preliminary point,  it remains my view that the ombudsman service can consider this 
complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
did the appointed representative advise Mrs C?
It is not right to say there is no evidence that advice was given by the appointed  
representative.  There is an absence  of some of the evidence that usually records  
investment advice. And that is evidence of a kind.  It tends to show that advice was not 
given.  However that is not the only evidence.   
Mrs C is clear that she was advised by the appointed representative.  And there  is evidence  
to support her claim. 
There is evidence the appointed representative  did more  than just make a simple  
introduction to a SIPP provider.   The appointed representative arranged  for the switch of the 
existing personal  pensions to the SIPP.  That involved arranging for the sale of the existing 
pensions which is a regulated activity.  So is arranging for those pension  rights to be 
switched to a new SIPP.  
It is more likely than not that Mrs C was, as she says, advised by the appointed  
representative to switch her pensions to the SIPP in order to invest  her pension funds in the 
Harlequin investment.   This is a relatively  sophisticated and involved plan.  Mrs C is a normal  
retail client.   She consulted a financial adviser. It is more likely  than not that she asked for 
Ref: DRN87498593advice and that she was advised  to switch her pensions and invest  in Harlequin, even 
though that advice was not documented.  And that the appointed  representative  then went 
on to arrange  the deals  it had recommended.    
It also remains my view,  as set out in my jurisdiction  decision, that Quilter is responsible for 
that advice.
was the advice  suitable for Mrs C?
In the case of Burns v The Financial Conduct Authority [2018] UKUT 246 (TCC)  the court 
considered the findings made  by the FCA about  a director of TailorMade Independent  
Limited which the court said was an IFA business specialising in giving advice to retail  
investors on the merits of their switching their pension monies to SIPPs.   Other  companies  in 
the group  promoted Harlequin  Property investments which SIPP  money was invested  into.  
Within its decision the court  said:
273. It would be readily apparent to any competent  financial  adviser  that for an 
unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension pot to switch  his 
benefits into a SIPP which was to be wholly invested  in either  a single or very small 
number of inherently risky overseas property investments  was a wholly unsuitable  
course of action for that investor to take. 
Mrs C was an unsophisticated retail  investor with a relatively small pension.   She  should  not 
have been advised to invest  most of it in a Harlequin Property investment.  It was unsuitable 
for her.  And  she would  not have invested  in it if she had not been wrongly advised to invest 
in it. 
The unsuitable advice  from Quilters appointed representative  has caused Mrs C 
considerable harm.   I will explain below how Quilter should put things right.   
I also think that the loss of a large  proportion  of Mr Cs pension will have caused her 
considerable trouble and upset and that she should be compensated for that also.  I consider 
£500, rather than the £300  proposed  by the investigator, to be appropriate  compensation.
how things  should be put right
Quilter should, as far as possible, put Mrs C into the position she would now be in but for the 
unsuitable advice  to switch her pensions  to a SIPP to invest  in the Harlequin  Property  
investment.  Quilter should  do so as follows:
1. Obtain the notional transfer values of Mrs Cs switched pensions as at the date of this 
decision had they not been  switched to the SIPP.  
Quilter should ask the pension providers to calculate  the notional  transfer values  it would 
have applied  as at the date of this decision had Mrs C not switched her pensions but instead 
remained invested with them.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type 
of return that could have been  achieved if suitable  funds had been chosen.
2. Obtain the transfer value of Mrs Cs SIPP at the date of this final decision.
Ref: DRN87498594This should be confirmed  by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued to take 
charges from the SIPP and there  wasnt an adequate cash balance to meet them, it might  be 
a negative figure.
3. And then pay an amount into Mrs Cs SIPP so that the transfer  value is increased by the 
amount calculated in (2). This payment should  take account of any available  tax relief and 
the effect of charges.
If its unable to pay the total amount  into Mrs Cs SIPP,  Quilter  should pay the compensation 
as a cash sum to Mrs C. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have 
provided a taxable  income. So the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mrs Cs marginal rate of tax at retirement.  
For example, if Mrs C is a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent  to the current  basic rate of tax. However,  
if Mrs C would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the notional  allowance should be 
applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed  by Mrs C to the SIPP, for the next five years.
Had the appointed representative given suitable  advice I dont think  there  would be a SIPP. 
Its not fair that Mrs C continue to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, Quilter should take over the investment to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is the 
fairest way of putting Mrs C back in the position she would have been  in. 
So, if the SIPP cant be closed, to provide certainty to both parties, I think its fair that Quilter  
pays Mrs C an upfront  lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated 
using the previous years fees), or undertakes to cover the fees that fall due during the next 
five years.  This should  provide a reasonable period for things to be worked out so the SIPP 
can be closed. 
In return for the compensation set out above, Quilter may ask Mrs C to provide an 
undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment  she may receive from the investment  in 
that five year period, as well as any other payment Mrs C may receive from any party  as a 
result of the investment. That undertaking should  allow for the effect  of any tax and charges 
on any amount received.  Quilter will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If 
it asks Mrs C to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded by my 
decision may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter  wants  to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments  under the investment, it must  agree  to pay any further future  SIPP fees.  
If Quilter  fails to pay the SIPP fees,  Mrs C should  then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investment to allow the SIPP  to be closed.
5. Pay Mrs C £500 for the trouble  and upset caused.
Ref: DRN87498595Mrs C will have been caused significant upset by the events the complaint relates to, and the 
loss of, in effect,  all of her personal pension fund.  I think that a payment of £500 is fair to 
compensate for that upset.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and require Quilter  Financial Services Ltd to pay fair 
compensation to him as set out above.   The compensation should be paid within 28 days  of 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd being  notified of Mrs Cs acceptance of my decision.  If it is 
not, interest  should  be paid on the compensation due at the rate of 8% simple interest from 
the date of this decision  until the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8749859