K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) handled 
their claim poorly and unfairly  deducted  two excess payments  from the settlement of their 
claim. 
My references to LV will include its agents. And as Mr L has brought  the complaint on behalf  
of Mr and Mrs L, I will refer to all submissions as having been made by him.
background
Mr L holds a travel insurance policy with LV. The policy  is in his name and Mrs L is listed as 
an insured party. 
Mr and Mrs L travelled abroad on holiday and while there,  Mr L became  unwell  and needed 
to be taken to hospital.  Mrs L contacted LV to let it know what had happened.  Mr L said she 
did this in case a claim  needed to be made later. LV told Mrs L she should check that her 
husband was being taken  to a public rather than private hospital and said it had made  a note 
of the details she provided.  
Mr L said LV attempted to contact  him by phone  while he was in hospital.  He said when 
Mrs L answered the call, LV said it was unable  to speak with her and could only speak to 
Mr L. Mr L said they were upset by this as he was unwell and they thought LV should have 
discussed things  with Mrs L. He also questioned why LV had called at all, as he said theyd 
not made a claim at that point.  Mr L said Mrs L told LV not to contact them again while they 
were on holiday.  However he said they received emails from LV while  they were still on 
holiday and said they found the contact distressing and it spoilt the remainder of their 
holiday. 
After returning  from holiday, Mr and Mrs L contacted LV to make a claim for some expenses  
relating to Mr Ls time in hospital  and a night of unused accommodation.
Mr L said he was unhappy with the time it was taking for LV to respond to the claim, so he 
complained. He said he was unhappy that LV had raised a claim before he had asked it to. 
And that LV had been  contacting him while he was on holiday and wouldnt speak to his 
wife. 
LV settled Mr and Mrs Ls claim and said it had deducted two excesses of £50 per person in 
relation to the curtailment claim for unused accommodation. And it apologised for any upset 
which had been  caused by the way it had handled Mr and Mrs Ls claim. 
Unhappy with LVs response, Mr L brought his complaint  to this service.  He said he thought 
LV had been wrong to apply two excesses to the claim. He said the costs claimed for were 
all incurred  by his wife, and said if he had been told that two excesses would apply, he would 
have made  it clear to LV that a single claim was being made for his wife only. 
An investigator here looked into what happened and said he didnt think LV had done 
anything wrong  in terms of its contact  with Mr L. And he said he thought the excess 
deductions had been calculated correctly.  
Ref: DRN84027372LV accepted the investigators view. However  Mr L disagreed and asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. He said he still felt angry  and frustrated about the way he had been treated 
by LV and said it had tainted his holiday. 
And so the case has been passed  to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, and for much the same reasons.  Ill explain why.
Contact from LV while Mr and Mrs L were abroad 
I understand Mr Ls point  of view that he thinks the attempts LV made to contact him were  
unnecessary, as at that point hed not made  a claim.  However, Mrs L had contacted LV 
about Mr Ls medical condition, and the call seemed to disconnect before it was over. So 
I think its reasonable that LV attempted  to call back and left a voicemail.
LV also attempted to contact Mr L the following day. LV was aware that Mr L had become 
unwell abroad  and had been taken to hospital.  In this scenario  I would expect an insurer  to 
keep in touch  with the policyholder to offer any necessary  support. So I dont think LV acted 
unreasonably in attempting to get in contact with Mr L to find out about  his condition. 
Mr L said he thought  Mrs L was a joint policyholder and so LV should  have agreed  to speak 
with her without needing  Mr Ls authority. I dont think it was unreasonable that LV asked if it 
could speak with Mr L to get his permission to talk with Mrs L, especially if medical  
information was to be discussed. Insurers have  to comply with strict data protection  laws,  so 
I dont think LV has done anything wrong here. 
I note from listening to the call from LV, that at the time, Mr L was no longer in hospital, but 
couldnt take the call as he was driving. LV asked Mrs L if there was a more convenient time 
when it could call back to speak to Mr L and I dont think  that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. During  this call, Mrs L told LV that they didnt want to go through  the claim at 
that time and said they would contact LV about  the claim after they returned from their 
holiday. 
Following this, LV sent Mr L two emails.  Mr L said his wife told LV not to contact them  again 
while they were on holiday and said he thought the further contact was aggressive  and 
unnecessary. Having reviewed the call, Mrs L told LV they would deal with the claim after 
they had returned from their holiday,  but she didnt specifically  tell LV not to contact  them 
again while  they were away. The evidence Ive been provided with shows LV didnt call Mr L 
or his wife again,  but sent two emails. One to enquire Mr L might need any medical 
assistance for his return flight home, and another to confirm  the claim would be kept open  
until Mr L got in touch to confirm his expenses,  and that there was no deadline for this. 
I disagree that these  emails were aggressive  and unnecessary. As LV had been unable  to 
speak with Mr L by phone,  I think  its reasonable  that it emailed him instead. And I think the 
information it provided or asked for in those emails was reasonable. LV hadnt  been given 
full details of Mr Ls medical condition, so it didnt know  if he would be fit to fly home on his 
planned return flight. So I think it was reasonable that it enquired about whether or not Mr L 
might need  medical  assistance on his return journey. 
Ref: DRN84027373Im sorry  to hear that Mr Ls holiday was spoiled.  However I dont think  LV is responsible for 
this, as Ive found  that the contact  it made  with him was valid. 
Delays in responding to the claim
Mr L said he was unhappy with the time taken for LV to deal with his claim. He submitted his 
claim on 14 January 2019 and LV settled  it on 5 February 2019, which is just over three  
weeks. I dont think this is an unreasonable timescale. So I dont  think  that LV caused any 
unnecessary delays here. 
Excess deductions from the claim 
No excess was deducted from the claim  Mr and Mrs L made under the emergency medical 
section of Mr Ls policy. Im satisfied this was correct,  as the policy  states that no excess  will 
be deductible for claims under that section  of the policy if the policyholders use European  
Health Insurance  cards  (EHIC). And Mr and Mrs L did. 
However Mr Ls policy states that if a trip needs  to be cut short  or cancelled   otherwise 
known as curtailment   an excess of £50 per person will be applied. So based  on this, I think  
LV has calculated the excess  deduction  correctly at £100.  
Mr L has said that the expenses claimed  for were  incurred by his wife, so the claim was 
really from her only. And he thinks only one excess should have been deducted. 
LV covered  the curtailment  claim  for the total cost of one night at Mr and Mrs Ls 
accommodation. The reason Mrs L didnt stay at the booked accommodation was because  
Mr L was in hospital, and she stayed there with him instead. So I dont think  it was unfair of 
LV to apply  two excess deductions to the settlement. I say this because  the claim related  to 
both Mr and Mrs L, as neither of them stayed at the booked accommodation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And 
I make  no award against Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2020.
Gemma Warner 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8402737