K822xComplaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the response of Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited, 
(trading as Barclays Partner Finance), following their claim against it under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mr and Mrs K were  contacted by a company, Ill refer to it as S, that supplied  and installed 
solar panel  systems. Following a meeting, Mr and Mrs K agreed  to enter into a contract  with 
S for it to supply and install a solar  panel system. To fund this Mr and Mrs K also agreed  to 
enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
Mr and Mrs K made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. They said that S had told 
them that the solar  panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly loan repayments 
would be more than off-set  by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income.  But that hadnt happened.  
Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than the income.
In its final response letter,  BPF said it didnt  think that the benefits of the solar panels had 
been misrepresented. It did acknowledge that it couldve handled their complaint better and 
paid £100 for any the trouble and upset caused.  Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs K 
referred the complaint to our service.
Following our involvement, BPF made  an offer of compensation to resolve the complaint.  
BPF said it had worked out the potential  savings and income to Mr and Mrs K over the term 
of the loan. It then said it would  restructure the loan so that they wouldnt pay any more  than 
this over the 10 year term of the loan. 
BPFs latest calculation showed that Mr and Mrs K would  receive  a refund of around £3,900 
and an additional  £100 for the trouble and upset  that had been caused. BPF set out three  
ways that Mr and Mrs K could use their refund:
1.it is used to clear that outstanding balance of their loan and the remaining £889 be 
paid directly to them,
2.it is paid directly to Mr and Mrs K and they continue to pay their current monthly  loan 
repayment resulting  in the loan finishing early,  or;
3.it is paid directly to them and they pay a new, lower  monthly loan repayment until the 
original end date of the loan.
Mr and Mrs K didnt  accept the offer. They said that theyd been told the loan repayments  
would be covered by the FIT income and didnt think any electricity savings should be taken 
into account. They also explained that they had since  moved  home and, as they no longer  
had the solar panels, werent receiving any benefit  from them.
One of our investigators  considered BPFs offer and the change to Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances. He felt the offer put forward was fair.
Mr and Mrs K didnt,  so the complaint has been passed to me to review.
Ref: DRN81201502My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA.  S75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by an agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
the respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against 
the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly  be jointly and severally  liable to the 
debtor.
As Mr and Mrs K paid for the solar  panels with a fixed sum loan agreement, BPF agrees that 
s75 applies  to this transaction.  This means  that Mr and Mrs K could claim against BPF  the 
creditor  for any misrepresentation or breach  of contract by S in the same way they could 
have against S, the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding  what  is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr and Mrs K 
and S, as the supplier,  are deemed to have been  conducted by S as an agent of BPF.
Mr and Mrs K say that they were cold-called  and during a sales meeting told that the solar 
panels would be entirely self-financing. As neither  BPF nor Mr and Mrs K dispute that the 
benefits of the solar  panels had been misrepresented,  this decision will deal with what I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and business  providing 
financial services fairly  and reasonably with minimum formality.  In cases  like this one, 
determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account  the particular circumstances. 
I appreciate that a potential outcome on this case would be to put Mr and Mrs K in the 
position they would have  been in if there had been  no misrepresentation. My view of Mr and 
Mrs Ks complaint is that it isnt so much  about the solar panels themselves but that they had 
been misled to believe that they would be self-funding and come  at no additional  cost to 
them. Mr and Mrs K no longer own the property where the solar panel  system was installed 
so it wouldnt be practical or proportionate to require  the removal  of the solar panels from 
their previous home.  Rather, I think the fair outcome  here is to put them in a position  where  
the panels are self-funding over the term of the loan. 
Mr and Mrs K have  been consistent  in their testimony, which I find both plausible  and 
persuasive. They said that they were  told that the loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income. So, Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into account 
when arriving at fair compensation. 
Ref: DRN81201503Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs K were misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-
funding and so on that basis I need  to decide  fair compensation. When  thinking about  that 
question, I think  its fair to take into account any electricity generated by the solar panel  
system. On the one hand Mr and Mrs K have had to pay their loan and for any electricity  
used in addition  to that generated  by the solar  panels and on the other  they have been able 
to off-set  those payments  by the FIT income  and the savings associated with the electricity 
generated by the panels. I think it would  be unfair  to ignore  the electricity generated and 
used by Mr and Mrs K when calculating fair compensation.
Ive carefully considered  the methodology BPF has submitted to this service to calculate the 
total benefits of the solar system. This methodology is based on the actual and estimated 
future performance of Mr and Mrs Ks solar panel system.
BPF has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and Mrs Ks 
solar panels  it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-consumption 
rate of 37%.  This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr and Mrs Ks solar panels that 
they are expected to use rather than buying electricity  from their energy provider. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the period  of time that someone is in their home and able to 
use, or self-consume,  the electricity generated  by their solar panel  system. The rate that was 
paid by Mr and Mrs Ks energy provider was 50%. This was the rate that had been set by the 
government. This means that Mr and Mrs K wouldve been paid, by way of their FIT income, 
for 50% of the electricity  the solar panel  system  generated. 
Ive also considered the information that was previously set out by the Energy Savings Trust 
website. This had a table  that showed the potential savings under various scenarios 
depending on a consumers lifestyle rather than a specific percentage. 
What is clear is that self-consumption is impacted  by the period of time that someone is at 
their home and able to use, or self-consume,  the electricity that is generated by the solar  
panels. It is self-evident that determining an exact figure over the period of the loan is 
difficult. My role is to determine fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable overall. And in cases of this nature that isnt an exact  science.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that it takes into account changing consumer 
occupancy habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panels.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable takin into account  the actual known figures. For example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Mr and Mrs K have  since moved home and are no longer receiving any benefits  from the 
solar panels  by way of FIT income  or savings on their electricity  bills. Ive gone on to 
consider whether a fair outcome would  be to make the solar panels self-funding up until the 
point they moved.
Mr and Mrs K havent said that they were led to believe that they could transfer the solar 
panels and any benefits they would receive  from them to their new home. Their concern 
Ref: DRN81201504throughout the complaint  has been  that they were led to believe that the monthly  loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income.
Under s75, BPF is liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract made  by S. 
Therefore, I would need to be satisfied that Mr and Mrs K were led to believe,  or there  was a 
term/ implied term in his contract, that they would  be able to transfer  the solar panels  and the 
benefits theyd  receive  from them to their new home,  and this information contributed  to their 
decision to buy the panels.
Ive reviewed all the submissions made by Mr and Mrs K. As stated  above,  Mr and Mrs K 
have been consistent throughout the complaint that the misrepresentation that induced  them  
to enter  into the contract was that the solar  panels  would be entirely self-financing. There  
isnt anything which suggests that they were led to believe that theyd be able to transfer  the 
solar panel  system and the benefits  to a new home. Or that a potential move was discussed 
at that point. And again, within the contract there isnt a term or an implied term to suggest 
this.
As Im not persuaded there was a misrepresentation, or a breach of contract, that would 
have led Mr and Mrs K to believe that the solar panels and any benefits from them  could be 
transferred if they moved home, Im satisfied that BPF offer to make the panels self-funding 
over the term of the loan is fair.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr and Mrs K first 
contacted BPF that means their claim should have  been upheld. The fact that it didnt 
undoubtedly caused them  trouble and upset, and Im satisfied the £100  proposed  by BPF 
adequately reflects  this.
Overall, Im satisfied that the offer put forward by BPF, and the options  put forward as to how 
Mr and Mrs K can use their overpayments,  represents fair compensation in the particular 
circumstances of this case.  For clarity, the three options available  to them are to:
1.use their overpayments to pay off the outstanding balance  of their loan and for the 
remaining balance to be paid directly to them,
2.the refund is paid directly to Mr and Mrs K and they continue  to pay their current 
monthly loan repayment resulting in the loan finishing early, or;
3.the refund is paid directly to them and they pay a new,  lower monthly loan repayment 
until the original  end date of the loan.
If Mr and Mrs K accept  my decision they should indicate on the acceptance  form which 
option they would like to accept.
Ref: DRN81201505My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld.  In full and final 
settlement of it, Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited must:
(a)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs K from the panels over the 
10 year loan term and rework  it so they pay no more than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr and Mrs Ks electricity bills and FIT statements to do this,
(b)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayment  made from the date of the overpayment  
until the date of the settlement,
(c)allow Mr and Mrs K to decide how they like to use their overpayments to be used, 
using the three options described above, and;
(d)pay Mr and Mrs K £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs K how much its 
taken off. It should also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Ref: DRN8120150