K820x#14complaint
Mr D1 and Mr D2, on behalf  of his company, complain about  Great  Lakes Insurance  SEs 
decision to turn down  a claim on the companys fleet motor  insurance policy.
Mr D1 is a named driver  on the policy. The policyholder is Mr D2 (trading  as his company). 
But as Mr D1 has taken  the lead in bringing  this complaint, for ease, where I refer to his 
comments they should be read as being  on behalf of himself, Mr D2 and the company.
Reference to Great  Lakes includes its agents.
background
Mr D2 took a fleet policy  on behalf of his company. Mr D1 was a named driver of a private  
car on the fleet policy. That car was stolen.  While  Great  Lakes was looking into the claim it 
learned that Mr D1 received a conviction  for driving  under the influence,  shortly after the car 
was stolen. And that hed been charged with that offence around  six months  before the 
policy began.  Great lakes said if it had known about Mr D1s pending  conviction  before the 
policy began it wouldn't have covered him for the private car. So it turned down the claim for 
the theft of the car.
Mr D1 brought his complaint about that to us. One of our investigators looked  into it. She 
thought Great Lakes dealt with the claim fairly. Mr D1 didn't agree so the complaint's  been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
Great Lakes has shown  us evidence that if it had known about Mr D1s potential  conviction 
before the policy began then it wouldnt have agreed to cover him. Mr D1 said he wasn't  
asked if he had any pending convictions when the policy was taken out. But in the specific  
circumstances of this case I don't think that matters.
As this is a commercial policy, under the terms of the Insurance Act 2015,  there  is a duty on 
the policyholder  to make a fair presentation  of the risk. That means  Mr D2, as the 
policyholder, needed  to tell Great Lakes about anything that would affect its decision about 
whether or not to offer cover  and on what terms. So it was important for Mr D2 to tell 
Great Lakes about  every material  circumstance  which he knew, or ought to have known 
that might  affect Great Lakes consideration of the risks the policy  would cover. 
I understand that at the time the policy began Mr D1 hadn't yet been  convicted of the 
offence. So he still had his driving  licence  and could lawfully  drive. I also understand he 
pleaded not guilty to the charge.  But I think  he must have known there  was a significant 
chance he would be found guilty and banned  from driving. And I think  Mr D2 ought to have 
realised that a pending conviction that could  lead to a ban would be something that an 
insurer would want to know about. So in order to make a fair presentation of the risk he 
needed to tell Great Lakes about Mr D1s pending conviction. And if hed done so then 
Great Lakes wouldn't have offered to cover Mr D1. 
Ref: DRN89361282Mr D1s said if hed been asked about  the conviction  and Great Lakes had told him it 
wouldn't cover him theyd have bought a different policy.  I don't dispute  that. But as I've said 
above the duty was on Mr D2 to tell Great Lakes about the pending conviction. And Mr D2 
didn't buy the policy directly from Great Lakes. Instead he appointed  a broker to act as an 
agent for him and his company to find a suitable  policy. So even  if I accepted that Mr D1 and 
Mr D2 didn't realise  they needed  to disclose the pending conviction, then this is something 
that their broker should have asked them about.  In fact I can see that when Mr D2s agent 
was asking Great Lakes  to add Mr D1 as a named  driver to the policy the broker explicitly  
said that Mr D1 had no convictions. So its clear Mr D2s agent knew  that conviction were  of 
importance to Great Lakes. And the pending  conviction should have been disclosed.
Mr D1s added that the car was covered  by the policy at the time of the theft. So he says the 
car was covered  even if he, who was the last person to drive it, wasn't. But, while I 
understand his arguments, I don't think it means that Great  Lakes needs to pay the claim. 
It might help if I explain that when Great Lakes learned of Mr D1s conviction it could have 
chosen to cancel the policy as it if had never existed (known  as voidance). And that would 
have allowed it not to deal with the claim. But that would have had significant implications for 
Mr D2 and his company.  Thats because, not only would the voidance  have immediately 
ended the cover for the fleet of vehicles the policy insured, but it would also have affected 
Mr D2s ability to source insurance in the future. That's because  many insurers  see 
policyholders whove had a policy voided  as being a high risk. Some  insurers  won't cover 
policyholders with a voidance  on their insurance history at all and those  that do usually 
charge higher premiums. 
Great Lakes didn't void the policy. Instead  it essentially  withdrew  the cover the policy had 
given Mr D1 from the policy start date.  So that meant that at the time the car was stolen, 
when Mr D had been using it, he wasn't covered. It follows  that I think it was reasonable for 
Great Lakes to turn down  the claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D1 and Mr D2 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8936128