K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  about the way Fairmead Insurance  Limited handled a claim made under 
her property insurance policy. 
background
In 2018, Miss S made a claim  after an escape of water in her home. The claim was accepted 
and Fairmead arranged the repairs. Miss S moved out of her home whilst the repairs were 
taking place. 
Miss S complained to Fairmead  about various  issues. Fairmead accepted it hadnt  handled 
the claim as well as it shouldve. It offered Miss S £400 compensation. Miss S turned down 
the offer and brought  a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be partly upheld. She thought  additional 
compensation of £150 ought to be payable. 
Fairmead accepted  our investigators recommendations, however Miss S didnt. The matter  
has therefore been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Handling of the claim
I need to decide whether the compensation offered by Fairmead for the poor handling of 
Miss Ss claim was reasonable.  Ive therefore looked at what happened after Miss S notified 
Fairmead of the claim in March 2018. 
In order for repairs to take place, the flooring throughout  the ground floor needed  to be taken 
up. Miss Ss belongings were placed  into storage so this could happen.  Initially, Fairmead 
thought Miss S would be able to remain in the property. However, Im pleased  it then 
overturned this decision and agreed for Miss S to move into alternative  accommodation,  
given she had no flooring or belongings in the ground floor of her home. Though  I see that 
Miss S needed to contact Fairmead  several  times about extending the alternative  
accommodation, as she wasnt contacted  about this.
Although Fairmeads  contractor had intended to reuse Miss Ss carpet that had been  taken  
up, due to the way it had stored the carpet, it couldnt be reused. Therefore, because 
Fairmead needed to fit a new carpet,  this caused an unnecessary  delay as this couldnt be 
done until early  September 2018. As I understand it, if it hadnt been for the delay, Miss S 
couldve moved back into her home  in July 2018.
When Fairmeads contractor fit her new flooring, it didnt fit this properly. That meant  the 
flooring needed to be redone (though Fairmead has agreed to pay for this), which caused 
Miss S added inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN87438952There was a further dispute  about  the final few weeks of alternative accommodation. 
Fairmead didnt think  Miss S needed to live elsewhere, and so initially refused  to pay for her 
accommodation over this period. However,  Miss S quite understandably didnt want  her 
contents returned before the flooring was put down. Given the delay to the flooring was 
caused by Fairmead,  I think it was right for Fairmead to pay for Miss Ss alternative  
accommodation costs  during  this period. Fairmead  has since  accepted this and made the 
payment to Miss S. 
Its apparent that Fairmead caused  Miss S unnecessary inconvenience throughout the claim. 
It offered  her £400  compensation  for that, however I agree with our investigator  that a further  
£150 would  seem reasonable in the circumstances. Whilst  I recognise  Miss S will be 
disappointed with my decision in this respect, I think total compensation of £550 reflects the 
level of impact Fairmeads actions had on Miss S. 
Further issues
Miss S says that after she notified  Fairmead of her claim, she advised it that the flooring was 
a trip hazard  but nothing  was done.  She says her dog was injured as a result,  and she 
incurred a vets bill of £404.07. Her pet insurance policy covered some of the cost, but she 
would like Fairmead to cover the remainder.  Fairmead has confirmed  that if Miss S sends it 
the relevant evidence from the vet and from her pet insurer, then it will review  this and 
consider her request for payment.  I think thats fair. If Miss S is unhappy with Fairmeads 
decision, she can raise  a new complaint about the matter.
Miss S also says she spent a lot of time driving  back and forth between  her property and her 
alternative accommodation, and had to pay for petrol. However,  as the investigator  has 
pointed out, Miss S chose to move  into alternative  accommodation over 100 miles from her 
home. Whilst I understand she did so in order to be near her partner, I dont find that 
Fairmead should compensate her for any petrol  costs she incurred or for the time it took her 
to drive to that accommodation when it was her choice to move  so far away from her home. 
Miss S says that because she had to move  out, her fish pond stopped functioning properly 
as it needed regular maintenance, and all her fish died. She also says plants died in her 
garden. Like the investigator, I dont think Fairmead  needs  to compensate  her for this. Given  
that Miss S chose to move into alternative accommodation so far away  from her home, its 
not unreasonable to have expected her to have  made alternative  arrangements  for the 
upkeep of her fish pond and plants. 
Miss S has raised concerns about  broken/missing items when her contents  were put into 
storage. I see she raised this with the storage company  directly  and it fixed  the majority of 
the broken items, and offered her £232.92 for the remaining items. However, Miss S says 
this amount isnt high enough. I see this issue wasnt raised with Fairmead, and so it hasnt 
had the opportunity to look into this. If Miss S wants Fairmead to do so, she should contact it 
directly about this. 
Miss S also says she had to make numerous phone calls about the claim, and wants  to be 
compensated for this. We wouldnt normally expect an insurer  to reimburse the cost of 
phone calls made in connection with a claim,  because as with any claim of this nature, its 
expected that there would be a number  of calls between  the parties. However, Fairmead 
seems to accept Miss S may have needed  to call it an excessive number of times, and has 
said that if Miss S provides it with evidence of this, then it will reimburse her costs. I think  
thats fair. 
Ref: DRN87438953Finally, Miss S says shes unhappy that the cost of the claim will be reflected in her next 
insurance renewal when Fairmeads  errors  increased the cost of the claim.  Again, this hasnt 
been raised with Fairmead directly. If Miss S thinks her renewal premium is unduly  high 
because of Fairmeads handling  of the claim and the inflated recorded  claims  cost,  she 
should raise this as a new complaint  with Fairmead.  
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Fairmead  Insurance Limited 
to pay Miss S a further £150 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8743895