K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) refused to refund 
transactions, which she said she didnt make.
background
Miss S complains  there were numerous cash withdrawals  and payments  from her account, 
totalling £617.01, which she didnt make. The transactions were ATM cash  withdrawals and 
payments to merchants, including a bar/restaurant and a pub.
The disputed transactions were made  with two debit cards issued to her. The first debit  card 
was used for transactions between 31 December  2017 and 3 January 2018.  Miss S reported 
this card missing on 3 January 2018.
Halifax despatched  a replacement card to her home address on 5 January. No new PIN was 
issued as Miss S said she didnt  need  one.
There were two further transactions on 7 February 2018, which were made with the 
replacement debit card. Miss S didnt lose her replacement card, but she was alerted to the 
transactions when  her account went overdrawn.
Miss S said she didnt make the transactions. She also said she couldnt have made them  
because she was elsewhere at the time they were made:
she was asleep  at her partners house when the two ATM cash  withdrawals were  
made on 31 December  2017 at 03.52  and 09.34.  
she was asleep  at home, having  got a taxi home at 03.35, on 1 January 2018  when 
four payments  were made  between 03.51  and 04.25. 
she was at home with her family  enjoying New Years Day when there was a balance 
inquiry and ATM  cash withdrawal at 13.03.  
she was at home in bed, as she had to go to work the next day, when payments were 
made in a pub and an ATM cash withdrawal was made  on 2 to 3 January. 
she was in a pub when there were two ATM  cash withdrawals on 7 January.
Miss S also said that she kept her debit  card in a safe and secure place in her bag and that 
her bag was always  with her. She had memorised  her PIN and didnt keep a written note of 
it. She said she always shields her hand  when keying  in the PIN at the ATM. She said its 
impossible that someone couldve got hold of her card without  her knowing.
Miss S said Halifax should  have  done  more to protect her account. She said it shouldve 
noticed the transactions were unusual  for her account and alerted her. But it didnt and, as a 
result, shes  had to borrow money  from her employer to cover her debts.
She asked  Halifax to refund the disputed  transactions and reimburse her for the loan.
Halifax investigated her complaint  and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. Its 
treating Miss S as having authorised the disputed transactions because:
her genuine  debit cards and PIN were  used to make the disputed transactions
there was no opportunity for a third party to take her cards
there was no explanation  for how a third party would  know her PIN
Ref: DRN88359272there were genuine transactions  before, after and between the disputed ones, which 
means she still had possession of her cards
Miss S wasnt happy with Halifaxs  decision, so she brought  her complaint to this service.  
She asked  why Halifax didnt obtain  CCTV footage.  And she maintains  it should have 
notified her of suspicious activity on her account.
An investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. In summary, he felt 
unable to conclude  that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently by an unknown third 
party. Based on the evidence,  he thought it was more likely than not they were made by 
Miss S or someone close to her with her authority. 
He also explained  that CCTV wouldnt have made a significant difference to the outcome. He 
said it might  show  someone else making the transactions, but it couldnt determine if Miss S 
had allowed the person  to use her cards and PIN.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as those  reached  by the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. These are set out in detail in the investigators view which 
both Miss S and Halifax have seen so I wont repeat every detail here.  
Generally, Halifax can hold Miss S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence  
suggests that its more  likely than not that she made or authorised them  herself. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Miss Ss genuine cards and PIN were 
used to make the disputed transactions. For the avoidance of doubt, I should  confirm that 
the evidence shows that the chip in both cards  was read by the ATM and payment terminals. 
This means  a cloned card was not used. And as the investigator explained, its not possible 
to clone the chip in a card.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own,  enough to enable  Halifax 
to hold her liable. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more  
likely than not that Miss S consented  to the transactions.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Miss S 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
debit card
Miss Ss genuine debit card was used. And not one card but two debit cards.  The 
replacement card was also used to make  two disputed transactions.  Yet, according 
to Miss S it was impossible for someone else to take her debit card without her 
knowing. And besides, whilst  its possible an unknown third party  might  steal  her 
debit card, I think it is far less likely they would return to take the replacement card.
PIN
Ref: DRN88359273The transactions were  authenticated by chip and PIN. However, Miss S said no-one 
knew her PIN and she didnt keep  a written note of it. And in her answers  to the 
banks questions, she said the PIN wasnt a guessable number. Based on Miss Ss 
own evidence there was simply no opportunity for a third party to know  her PIN. 
 
Genuine transactions
The bank  statements and card and PIN audits  show there were genuine transactions 
before, after and between the disputed ones. On some  days,  the disputed  transaction 
happened within minutes of a genuine one. For example, on 1 January, there is a 
genuine transaction at 03.49 to a grocery store, followed  by a disputed  transaction  to 
a club at 03.51.
If a third party made the disputed transactions, then this evidence indicates that they 
were close  enough  to Miss S to take and replace her cards  without her noticing. For 
this reason, I dont  consider these are the actions  of an unknown  third party.  I think  
either she made the disputed transactions or someone she knew  did.
The transactions
The disputed transactions were made  in the vicinity where  she lives. The cash 
withdrawals were  made at ATMs  shed used and continued to use for genuine  cash 
withdrawals. And some of the disputed payments were  made in establishments  shed 
frequented.
Based on the evidence,  I consider its more  likely  than not that Miss S authorised  the 
transactions, either by making them  herself  or allowing someone she knew  to use her card 
and PIN. I did note there were two balance inquiries  on 1 January where the incorrect PIN 
was keyed in, which suggests this was someone  else. However, the correct  PIN was keyed 
in first time for all the other transactions. And besides, I consider the evidence  far outweighs 
any suggestion that this was a fraudulent activity by an unknown third party.
For these reasons I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax to refuse  a refund.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Miss S, but I hope the reasons for my decision 
are clear.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 February  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8835927