K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  refused a claim on his legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Aviva, this includes it agents  and claims handlers.
background
Mr M was a tenant of a council property. He applied  to buy his property under his right  to 
buy. When the application didnt go through, he made a claim on his legal expenses policy 
to cover the costs of bringing a claim  against the local council.
Aviva rejected his claim on the basis that the claim didnt fall within the cover  offered by the 
policy. Mr M disagreed and complained to Aviva, then to this service.
Our investigator said it was fair for Aviva to refuse the claim, because the policy only 
provides cover for certain types of legal action,  and the claim Mr M wanted to bring wasnt 
included. She noted  that Aviva had referred the matter to one of its panel solicitors and 
followed their advice,  and she said it was reasonable  to do that.
Mr M disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As is usually  the case, Mr Ms policy doesnt provide cover for every  type of legal action. 
The policy terms set out what  claims are covered (which includes certain types of property 
disputes) and says cover  is limited to the following claims:
a. for the pursuit or defence of a claim for damages;
b. specific performance;
c. injunction;
So unless the action Mr M wanted to take was for one of these remedies,  it wouldnt be 
covered.
Its also a requirement of his policy that a claim must have reasonable prospects  of success 
for cover to be provided.  This is very common in legal expenses policies and means insurers  
dont have to pay legal  costs for claims that are not likely to succeed.
Aviva wasnt  sure about the nature of the remedy Mr M was seeking and passed the claim to 
one of its panel solicitors  to consider.  They advised that the claim would  be for a statutory  
declaration under the Housing Act 1985.
Since Aviva had legal  advice that Mr M needed  to obtain a statutory declaration  I think it was 
reasonable to refuse cover. That isnt one of the remedies for which  cover is provided.  And 
its reasonable for an insurer to rely on legal  advice, unless that advice is obviously wrong,  or 
the policyholder  has provided contrary advice from another lawyer.
Ref: DRN81341522I cant see that Mr M provided Aviva  any alternative  legal advice, or evidence  that he was 
seeking damages, specific performance, or an injunction. So Aviva  had no reason not to rely 
on the advice  from its panel solicitors.
I note that Mr M instructed the panel solicitors to represent him privately. They later got 
advice from a barrister who confirmed that the type of claim he could bring wouldnt be 
covered under the policy terms. The barrister also advised that the claim wasnt likely to 
succeed in any event. So it wouldnt have met the requirement for a reasonable chance of 
success either.
Mr M subsequently  instructed a different firm of solicitors. He says these solicitors had the 
necessary competence and showed there were more grounds for his claim. And he was able 
to reach  a settlement with the council, which means  he can exercise  his right to buy, with 
penalties paid to him for the delay.
He also says Aviva never actually provided  any justification or explanation  of why his claim 
was rejected other than the statement that judicial review  was not covered by the policy.  
Hes raised a number  of points about  the nature of the legal  remedy under the Housing Act 
and says that Act is quite wide-ranging. He says his claim clearly falls within  the policy  cover. 
Ive considered what Mr M says but in my judgment  it doesnt  alter the fact that, when 
deciding not to provide cover, the information Aviva had was that the claim he wanted to 
bring wasnt of a type that was covered. Even if it later turned out that Mr M was able to 
pursue one of the remedies listed, that wasnt the advice Aviva  had at the time.  
I appreciate that this matter must have been  difficult for Mr M. It dragged on for a long time 
and hes incurred substantial legal costs. But its not for me to review the legal position 
concerning his dispute with the council. Im considering whether Aviva dealt with his 
insurance claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. And for the reasons  given, Im 
satisfied that it did.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2019
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8134152