K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that CIS General Insurance Limited  has declined  his claim for accidental  
damage to his sofa under his home  insurance policy.
background
In early 2019, Mr N told CIS he wanted to claim for accidental damage to his sofa and 
laptop. He said the sofa was damaged when he fell off a ladder while cleaning. At the same 
time, he knocked over a cup of coffee which spilt onto his laptop.
CIS identified that Mr N had previously  made  claims for both a damaged  sofa and a laptop  in 
2016 and 2017 when  he was with another insurer. The insurer hadnt accepted Mr Ns claim 
for the sofa because it believed the damage  was due to wear and tear and this wasnt 
covered by the policy.
CIS said that due to the similarities of this claim to Mr Ns previous claims,  it needed  to be 
sure that Mr N wasnt claiming for the same  sofa hed previously claimed  for. It also asked 
for a cause of damage report for his laptop.
After Mr N provided further information and evidence  relating to his laptop,  CIS settled that 
part of his claim. But it declined his claim for the damaged sofa. It said Mr N hadnt provided  
sufficient evidence to show that the sofa he was claiming for was different to the one hed 
claimed for before. He hadnt provided a receipt for the sofa hed previously tried to claim for.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 December 2019 where  I explained why I intended  to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint.  In that decision  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to 
uphold Mr Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
The relevant  industry  rules say that an insurer should handle  claims promptly  and fairly and 
it shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.  
CIS has referred to a condition in its policy that says the insured must provide any 
information, evidence  and assistance necessary for (it) to consider (their) claim. This 
condition isnt unusual.  Its for the policy holder to prove their loss when making an insurance 
claim.
When Mr N brought his claim to CIS, it observed  that he had claimed for both a sofa and a 
laptop on his previous  insurance policy. CIS has noted that Mr N claimed for a sofa in 2016 
but the previous insurer could not provide  details  regarding the sofa itself, colour material  
etc. 
Mr N sent CIS a receipt  for his laptop  which showed hed bought it after his previous claim. 
CIS accepted this part of Mr Ns claim,  once hed provided evidence that the laptop had 
been damaged  by liquid.
Ref: DRN86748682Mr N provided  an online  receipt for the sofa he is claiming for which shows he bought  a 
white sofa in 2013. Hes also sent photographs  of the damaged  white  sofa. But CIS declined  
Mr Ns claim for the sofa because it isnt satisfied that its not the same sofa hed tried to 
claim for with his previous insurer. 
 
Mr N says the sofa hed tried to claim for in 2016 is different to the one hes tried to claim for 
in 2019. He says he owned both sofas at the same  time because  he used to have  two 
reception rooms in his house. The sofa hed tried to claim  for in 2016 was black  and part of a 
set of two sofas.  He got rid of the damaged  sofa and he didnt replace it because the room it 
was in, is now being used as a bedroom.  He sent CIS a photo of the other black  sofa which 
had been moved  to his garage.
CIS asked  Mr N for proof of purchase of the black  sofa.  Mr N wasnt  able to provide a receipt 
for this. He said hed bought it from an auction  house in 2013.  He asked the auction house if 
it could provide proof of purchase, but it told him it was unable  to access  his invoice as it was 
on an old system.  Mr N sent CIS copies of his messages with the auction house  to show  
this. Mr N also sent copies of messages between him and the auction house from 2013  
regarding a winning  bid. But there was no reference to what it was that hed bid for. 
I dont think its reasonable for CIS to insist on a receipt for the sofa Mr N isnt claiming  for. 
Mr N has given a plausible explanation as to why he owned more than one sofa at the same 
time and why he didnt  replace the sofa that was damaged in 2016.  And he seems to have 
done his best to try to prove this.
I can understand why CIS might have  initially  had concerns about the similarity between this 
claim and Mr Ns previous claims. But CIS seems to have accepted that an event took place,  
because its settled Mr Ns claim for the laptop. It hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to 
show that Mr Ns claim  was for the same sofa. And it seems unlikely that Mr N would make  a 
second attempt  to claim for an item,  three years after his previous claim had been  rejected.
From what  Ive seen so far, I dont think CIS has acted reasonably in declining  Mr Ns claim 
for his sofa. So, I intend to direct CIS to reassess Mr Ns claim for his sofa in line with the 
terms of the policy.
responses
Mr N said he was happy with the findings  Id made  in my provisional decision. CIS said it 
accepted my findings and didnt have anything further to add.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  accepted the findings  Id made  in my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ns complaint and direct CIS General  Insurance 
Limited to reassess  his claim for the sofa. 
Ref: DRN86748683Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8674868