K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains Gefion Insurance A/S unfairly cancelled his commercial motor  insurance 
policy and refused to pay his claim.
background 
In February 2020  I issued  a provisional decision. It forms part of this final decision. So Ive 
attached a copy. In it I said why I intended  to require Gefion to settle Mr As claim, pay him 
£200 compensation and amend  records to show the policy as being  cancelled by him. I also 
asked Mr A and Gefion for any information  they would like me to consider before I made a 
final decision. Both responded but neither  provided  anything. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent been provided  with anything 
new. So Ive no reason to change my position. Gefion will need to settle Mr As claim, pay 
him £200 compensation and amend relevant records to show the policy  as being cancelled 
by him.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Gefion Insurance A/S needs to:
Pay Mr A £5,491 (plus  VAT if applicable) to settle the claim for the loss of his vehicle 
- simple  interest  at 8% should be added  to the full amount from the date of theft to 
the date of settlement*.
Amend any internal or external  records to show the policy  as being cancelled by 
Mr A, 
Pay Mr A £200 compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience its caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
*If Gefion  considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from the interest, it should tell Mr A how 
much its taken off. It should  also give him a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN87281422PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains Gefion Insurance A/S unfairly cancelled his commercial motor insurance policy  and refused to 
pay his claim.
background
In August 2018 Mr A had a vehicle stolen. He claimed on his Gefion commercial motor  insurance policy. During 
its investigation for the claim it discovered  Mr As son, a named driver on the policy,  had changed  jobs since  the 
policy had renewed  in April 2018. 
Gefion said Mr A hadnt told it about the named drivers change in occupation. It said he was required to and if he 
had, it wouldnt  have continued to provide cover. So it cancelled  the policy back to the date the named  driver  
started his new job - July 2018. Gefion said that meant Mr A didnt have cover  at the time of the theft. So it 
refused to pay the claim.   
Mr A complained. He said he didnt  think he needed to notify of a change in the named drivers occupation. He 
said he hadnt been told he needed to. In response, Gefion said Mr A had been informed  during  the policy 
renewal that he needed to make it aware of any changes  in circumstances. Gefion didnt accept it had done  
anything wrong. Mr A didnt accept that so he came to this service. He wants it to reinstate  the policy, pay the 
claim and compensation. 
Our Investigator said Gefions decision to avoid Mr As policy was unfair. He also felt the named drivers 
occupation wasnt material to the loss. So he recommended  Gefion  reconsider the claim in line with the 
remaining terms  of the policy.  Gefion didnt accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend to require Gefion to reinstate  the policy  and pay Mr As 
claim.
Gefion discovered there had been a change  to the named drivers circumstances part-way through  the policy 
year. As a result it cancelled the policy from the date of the change. So it was varying the terms of the policy mid-
term. 
In order  for me to say it was fair and reasonable  for Gefion to do that, Id need to be satisfied of a few things. 
Firstly, that the policy featured a change  in risk clause.  Then, that it was made clear to Mr A that he needed to tell 
Gefion about the named driver changing jobs. Finally, Id need to accept the named  drivers change of job was a 
fundamental change in risk.
 
The policy  says Gefion or the broker must  be told if any of your  details change. Your is defined in the policy as 
The person or company  named  in the schedule and certificate of motor insurance as the Insured or policyholder. 
The schedule names Mr A as The Insured. The certificate  names  him as the policyholder.  So the clause only 
requires Mr A to tell Gefion about any changes to his details. 
The policy  gives examples  of details. It says they include but arent limited to change of vehicle,  use, drivers, 
annual mileage, occupations  and offences.  It lists a few others.  Based on the definition of your the policy 
requires Mr A to notify if his drivers change. It also requires him to notify  if his occupations  change. But it 
doesnt require him to do so if his drivers occupation changes.  
So there is a change in risk clause. But it doesnt  require Mr A to notify  Gefion of a change to the named  drivers  
details. So Gefion cant fairly vary the terms of Mr As policy because of a change in the named  drivers  details.
Even if the change in risk clause did apply  to the named drivers occupation,  I still wouldnt say it was fair for 
Gefion to cancel the policy.  Insurers can only fairly vary the terms of a policy  mid-term  when the change in risk is 
a fundamental one. I dont agree that it was. 
To be a fundamental change the subject matter of the insurance  needs to became completely  different.  The 
named drivers change in occupation didnt  result in that. The vehicle and its use remained the same. The drivers 
of the vehicle  were still the same. The named driver wasnt  using the vehicle for his new occupation.  
Ref: DRN87281423So the cancellation  was unfair. That means Gefion will need to take various steps to put things right.  
I cant see any reason why the claim shouldnt be paid.  The vehicle  was a total loss. The valuation provided by 
Gefions engineer was £5,491 excluding VAT.  Having looked at various trade guides I think  thats reasonable. So 
Gefion will need  to settle the claim by paying Mr A that amount.  He isnt VAT registered. That means Gefion will 
need to add VAT to the settlement  if its payable on that model of vehicle. 
Gefions unfair cancellation of the policy  caused Mr A to be unfairly without the settlement  for a period of time.  To 
make up for that it will need  to add simple interest  at 8% - from the date of the theft to the date of settlement.
Mr As requested that Gefion cover losses he feels its caused. He took out a loan in March  2019  to pay for a new 
vehicle. The interest  payable on that will have  been an additional cost to him. But the interest added to the 
settlement is intended to cover  additional costs, such as the loan interest, caused by the claim not being paid 
earlier.
Mr As said Gefions refusal of the claim  caused  him financial losses. He says being without a vehicle meant he 
couldnt take on new employment. A lack of public transport at the required hours meant he couldnt continue  with 
his existing job  instead  he had to take on a new position. All this, he says, caused a loss of income that lead to 
credit problems - ultimately it led to him losing his home.
But I dont think  it would be reasonable to say Gefion was responsible  for these events. Mr As described the new 
employment as a possibility. It doesnt seem to have been a certainty  and he wasnt  at the time of the theft 
earning any income from that position. So I cant say there  was a loss of existing income  only possible future  
earnings. In addition it seems  likely  to me he could  have taken out the loan for a new vehicle  earlier than March 
2019. That would have allowed him to take on new employment  for example. So I dont intend to require  Gefion 
to pay Mr A for the financial  losses he says he incurred.    
I do accept Gefions caused Mr A some  unnecessary distress and inconvenience.  He had a claim  unfairly refused 
and a policy unreasonably cancelled. Hes had the distress of unfairly having an insurer  cancellation on his 
record. Hes had to spend time dealing with this issue. I think £200 would be a fair amount for Gefion to pay to 
recognise this. 
A record of cancellation by an insurer can make it harder  to find, and increase  the cost,  of future insurance. The 
policy was unfairly cancelled. So Gefion will need  to amend any relevant records  so they show the policy  as 
being cancelled by Mr A.
Mr A says hes paid extra  for cover with his new insurer because of the cancellation record. Once  Gefions 
amended its records he should ask his new insurer for a refund  of any extra  he paid because of the cancellation 
marker. Mr A holds a GAP insurance policy  for the stolen vehicle. If he wants to claim under  that, after Gefion has 
settled this claim, he should contact the provider of the cover. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons given above,  I intend to require Gefion Insurance A/S to:
Pay Mr A £5,491 (plus VAT if applicable) to settle the claim for the loss of his vehicle  - simple  interest  at 
8% should be added to the full amount  from the date of theft to the date of settlement.
Amend any internal or external records  to show the policy  as being cancelled by Mr A, 
Pay Mr A £200 compensation to recognise the unnecessary distress and inconvenience  its caused him.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8728142