K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has unfairly turned down his claim 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background
In September  2015, Mr I bought trial membership of a holiday club from Company A for 
£3,995  he paid using  his HSBC credit card. The membership lasted for three years and 
enabled Mr I to take five week-long holidays in Company As resorts. Company A also had 
an agreement with Company B, so if Mr I couldnt find a suitable holiday in the week he 
wanted, for a charge, he could trade in his week-long Company A holiday for a Company B 
supplied holiday instead.
When Mr I came to book  a holiday,  he found he wasnt able to get holidays to the places he 
wanted to go to at the times  he wanted  to go away for. And when Mr I tried to book through  
Company B, he found the cost was much more  than hed been told it would be. 
Mr I complained to HSBC about this. He said that, under s.75 CCA, it was jointly  responsible 
to answer any claim for breach of contract or misrepresentation that he had against 
Company A. 
HSBC looked  into the complaint, but it didnt think it needed to do anything further. It said it 
didnt think s.75 CCA  applied  due to the way Mr I paid for his membership. That was 
because he paid a different business,  Company C, so there wasnt  the right type of 
arrangement between HSBC, Mr I and Company A for s.75 CCA to apply.  Unhappy  with the 
response, Mr I brought his complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and didnt think  HSBC needed to do 
anything further.  They thought there was the right type of arrangement  that meant s.75 CCA  
did apply, but they didnt  think  there was evidence to suggest there was a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. They  also considered  whether anything done  or said meant the 
relationship between Mr I and HSBC could have  been unfair under s.140A CCA, but they 
didnt think that was the case. 
Mr I didnt agree with the adjudicators view,  so the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.
HSBC has said it doesnt need to consider the claim under s.75 CCA as there isnt the right 
type of arrangement between all of the parties. S.75 CCA applies where there  is a debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) arrangement, such that the money advanced by the creditor is paid 
to the supplier to finance the agreement  between the supplier and the debtor. Here  HSBC 
has said there isnt a DCS arrangement  as the money was paid to Company C, but it was 
Company A that actually supplied the service to Mr I. If I were  to agree with HSBC  about 
this, Mr I wouldnt be able to make  a claim under either s.75 or s.140A CCA.
Ref: DRN82576802Its possible that there could be the right type of DCS arrangement,  even if Mr I didnt pay 
Company A directly. That could be the case if there was a close  connection between 
Company A and Company  C, or if Company C were just processing a payment on 
Company As behalf. But I dont need to make a finding on that point, as I dont think any 
claim Mr I could make under s.75 or s.140A CCA would succeed even if there was a valid 
DCS arrangement. Ill explain why.
s.75 CCA
Mr I has said the benefits of Company A membership were misrepresented  to him. He says 
that he was told it had resorts all over the world and hed be able to get accommodation in 
any destination of his choice, including Dubai. And, if Company A didnt have availability, 
there was a partnership  with Company  B that meant  he could book other resorts for only 
£148.
Mr I says he was told to book early to get accommodation at the best resorts, but he said to 
Company A that he could only travel when his work allowed it and that might  be at short  
notice. In response, Mr I says he was he could book at short notice, up to 48 hours before 
the holiday date,  but he might  not get the resort he wanted. He was also told there was 
generally some availability in school holiday times and if Company A didnt have availability, 
he could always try Company B.
Ive looked at Company As records of what it says happened.  It says Mr I first asked to book  
a week in July 2017 for a holiday the following  month in either Dubai or Mauritius   
Company A says it told Mr I it didnt have resorts at those locations and suggested he try 
Company B. Three days later its recorded that Mr I made contact again to asked to go to 
either Thailand, Malaysia, Hong Kong or Mauritius, but again these werent available. 
Company A was able to offer accommodation in Turkey, Florida, Mexico  or Goa on the dates 
Mr I wanted  Mr I turned  these down  as hed already booked flights  to Bali, but there was 
no Company A availability  in Bali at that time.  
I dont think it was a term of the contract between Mr I and Company A that it would offer 
accommodation in any resort in the world that Mr I wished to visit or that it was guaranteed  
there would always  be availability  for when Mr I needed it  such a term would plainly be 
impossible to fulfil. I think Company A had to make five weeks  of holidays available  and it 
appears that it did that, but Mr I didnt take up the holidays offered.  
I can see that Company  A arranged for Mr I to have membership with Company B, which  is 
what it said it would do. But I cant see that Company A would be responsible  for any 
charges that Company B levied at Mr I to make  a booking. So I dont think Mr Is contract 
with Company A was breached if Company B charged more than expected to make  a 
booking. But that could amount to a misrepresentation which Ill consider below.
Ive also considered whether Company A made any false  or misleading representations that 
led to Mr I taking out membership. I accept that Company A probably said it had resorts 
around the world,  or something  very similar. But I dont think that went as far as a 
representation that it had resorts in every location to which Mr I might want  to travel.  And Ive 
seen that Company A does have  resorts available to its members across different  countries 
and continents, so I think  what it said about  the range  of available locations  was truthful. 
Mr I has said Company  A told him it wouldnt be a problem getting  accommodation  in Dubai. 
He hasnt said Company A told him it had a resort in Dubai  from looking at its available  
Ref: DRN82576803locations, I cant see it had a resort there. But Ive seen holidays in Dubai are available  
through Company B, so I dont think any representation that Mr I would be able to go to 
Dubai using his membership was necessarily misleading.
I also dont think there  was a representation  that there was unlimited availability  I say that 
because Mr I said he was told about the Company B programme could be used  if he couldnt 
find availability for the holiday period he wanted.  He also explained that he was told he 
needed to book early to get accommodation  at popular resorts at popular times, so I dont 
think he was told availably was guaranteed.  Instead I think the communication  that took 
place in 2017 shows that Company A was able to offer a range of different accommodation 
at different  locations  at short notice, which fits with what Mr I remembers he was told and 
with what happened  when he came to book.
Ive also considered whether Mr I was told he could book with Company B for £148 and that 
it actually cost considerably more.  This isnt something Ive seen set out in writing from either 
Company A or Company B, so its Mr Is recollection of the sale.  But the sale took place in 
2015 and it was around two years before he tried to make a booking  and a further year 
before he complained, so its possible his memories of the cost at the later dates werent as 
fresh as when he bought membership. I also cant see that Mr I ever raised the problem with 
the cost directly with Company A after he tried to book through Company B. 
Company B operates an exchange programme, so timeshare owners can swap their holiday 
weeks and use accommodation  not available through their timeshare providers.  But for Mr I, 
this was subject  to someone offering  their timeshare accommodation  for exchange at a time 
and place that he wanted to go on holiday. Having looked at Company  Bs details I can see 
that there  is a membership fee, that in Mr Is case was covered by Company  A for three 
years, and exchange fee when someone made  a booking   the current exchange fee is 
considerably less that the over £1,000 Mr I says he was quoted. Mr I hasnt  provided  
anything to show the cost he was quoted by Company  B to book a week,  so I cant be sure 
whether this was for an exchange  or for a standalone booking.  Based on the evidence 
available, I cant conclude  Company A misrepresented the cost of booking through 
Company B.
s.140A CCA
Under s.140A,  a court has the power  to decide  whether  the relationship between a debtor  
and a creditor is unfair and, if it does  find unfairness, it has the power to remedy that by 
making an order under s.140B. Although it is for a court to decide on whether a relationship 
is unfair, this is relevant  law that I need  to consider. So I need  to decide if I think  its likely a 
court would find an unfair relationship.
In particular Ive considered  whether  there was anything said or done by Company A that, by 
virtue of s.56 CCA,  could lead to something that a court might think amounts  to an unfair 
relationship between Mr I and HSBC. 
The CCA doesnt define what is meant by unfair  and the courts have noted this is 
deliberately framed  in wide terms. So Ive thought about how the membership was sold to 
Mr I and whether that could lead to an unfair relationship. In doing so, Ive taken into account 
all of the regulations  that covered the sales of timeshares and holiday products in force  at 
the time of the sale, as well as regulations that were  designed to prevent unfair business 
practices.
Ref: DRN82576804Mr I hasnt made any allegations of pressurised or aggressive sales  practices, and I havent  
seen any other evidence that suggests  any pressured sales techniques. Its possible 
Company A used  sophisticated sales techniques to induce Mr I to buy membership, but I 
cant say Ive seen  anything that meant he didnt have a fair choice about taking it out. I think 
Mr I signed up to the membership because he wanted to have the chance to have five 
weeks of holidays at different resorts.
Ive also considered whether there  was an inequality of knowledge between Mr I and 
Company A that was enough to create unfairness  or whether Company A undertook any 
misleading sales practices. Having considered the sale in the round, as well as reading  all of 
the available  evidence, I dont think there was. Mr Is membership was relatively straight  
forward  he paid a set price for five weeks of holidays with Company A. He didnt have any 
ongoing financial obligation to Company A that needed to be set out, nor was this the type of 
product that could  be resold, so he didnt  need to know about how to value his membership. 
Ive considered whether Company A should  have made it clearer to Mr I that he might have 
found it hard to book  holidays  during  school  holidays,  but Mr I says he was told that he 
needed to book early due to availability. And when he did come  to book, Company A was 
able to find him a holiday  at short  notice  during  school summer holidays,  albeit not at the 
location to which Mr I wanted to travel. But I dont think Company A withheld anything  about 
the potential difficulty  in booking during school holidays.
As noted above,  an unfair relationship could be created between HSBC  and Mr I due to the 
things done or said by Company A. But having  looked at the evidence, I dont think its likely  
a court  would find unfairness that would  lead to it making an order.  
Conclusion
HSBC didnt consider  Mr Is complaint under either  s.75 or s.140A CCA as it didnt think  
there was the right type of DCS  arrangement in place. I havent  made  a finding on that point 
as I dont think Mr Is claim  under either section would succeed even if such  a link did exist. 
So for that reason, I dont think HSBC needs  to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint against HSBC  UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8257680