K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC.
background
In January 2018 Mr V phoned  Barclays to make a transaction using its telephone banking  
services. He was told that hed failed its voice recognition security  system so he wasnt able 
to make the transaction.  His bank account was temporarily blocked because  Barclays was 
concerned that someone else may have  been  trying  to access Mr Vs account.  
Mr V was abroad at the time. Barclays accept that he wasnt given the correct  information 
initially as to the documents hed need  to send it whilst abroad to verify himself and remove  
the block from his account. Mr V had to spend time making a number of calls to Barclays,  
chasing it for answers as to why hed failed security and to find out what  he needed to do to 
unblock his account. He also made repeated visits to an internet caf to access his email to 
send Barclays the information it had requested. 
Mr V complained to Barclays.  It apologised  and paid him £175 for call charges and £125 for 
trouble and upset  (so, £300  in total). It assured  him that the voice recognition security 
feature would be removed from his account and Mr V accepted  that at the time. 
At the end of March 2018 Mr V called Barclays again to use its telephone banking  service. 
Towards the start of the call he was told that hed failed  voice  recognition security but was 
allowed to proceed  with the call by identifying  himself another way. Barclays  representative 
was able to answer  questions  he had about  payments  going  in and out of his account.  But 
he wasnt permitted to set up a standing order because hed failed voice recognition security.
Mr V was unhappy that the voice recognition security feature hadnt been removed from his 
account, despite reassurances that it had been. Hes also unhappy that he wasnt able to set 
up the standing  order. Barclays  accepted  that voice recognition security  feature shouldnt 
have been on his account.  It provided  Mr V with a further apology and paid him an additional  
£50 for the further trouble and upset caused.
Mr V didnt think that was fair. So he complained to us.
Our investigator found that the total offer of £350 fairly compensated Mr V for the call costs 
and trouble and upset  Barclays  caused.  Mr V disagrees so his complaint has been passed to 
me to consider everything  afresh,  and make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont think  Barclays 
needs to do anything more. I know Mr V will be disappointed by this but hopefully  hell 
understand my reasoning when I explain why. 
Ive considered the impact on Mr V as a result of what  happened  in January 2018. Its likely 
that he wouldve  been frustrated and worried by having  his account blocked in any event. 
But this wouldve been exacerbated by initially being  given the wrong information by 
Barclays and then having to attend an internet  caf more than once to send the information it 
needed  particularly as he was on holiday and, says, not in good  health.  He also had to 
Ref: DRN80161202make a number of calls  some of which wouldve  been unnecessary,  if hed been  given the 
right information initially.  Barclays  reimbursed him £175 for his call costs which is what  I 
wouldve expected  it to do. Its also paid him a further £125  for trouble and upset. I think 
thats fair.
I also accept Mr Vs frustration wouldve been  exacerbated by finding out in 
March 2018, that despite  assurances the voice recognition security feature had been 
removed from his account, it hadnt. And that as hed failed voice security once again, he 
wasnt able to set up a standing order. Ive listened  to the calls Mr V had with Barclays 
around that time and hes understandably annoyed by whats  happened.
But I think the offer of £50 fairly  compensates him for the additional frustration he felt. Ive 
listened to this call and theres no indication  that his account had been blocked again   and 
Barclays has given us a screenshot indicating his account has been blocked once (so, in 
January 2018). Further, Mr V was told that he would be able to set up a standing order  by 
calling Barclays back and trying to pass voice security. I can understand why he didnt want 
to that in the circumstances. But Ive seen nothing to say that he lost out financially, or 
experienced too much inconvenience,  by not being  able to make the standing order  when he 
wanted.
So, all in all, I think the total offer of £350  fairly  compensates  Mr V for the impact Barclays  
errors had on him. When making this finding,  Ive taken into account  Mr Vs comments  that 
as a result  of Barclays errors hes lost faith in it - and in the banking industry in general.  Its, 
of course, up to Mr V whether he wishes to bank elsewhere. But for the reasons set out 
above Im not going to ask Barclays to do anything more.
Im aware that Mr V has brought a further complaint to us about contacting Barclays  in the 
autumn of 2018  and discovering that voice recognition security is still on his account. To 
clarify, I havent looked into the merits of that complaint against Barclays.  
my final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need  to do anything more. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject my decision before 
26 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8016120