K820x#14complaint
Miss N complained about how Advantage Insurance Company Limited  dealt with her claim 
under her motor insurance policy. 
background
After Miss Ns car was damaged in an accident  Advantage  decided  that it wasnt economical 
to repair. They offered Miss N her cars  market  value. But she didnt think  that was enough.  
She also felt that Advantages  salvage  agents had damaged her car and that this and other  
service failings had caused her more expense and stress. She wanted  compensation for 
this.
The investigator didnt  recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
Advantage had acted  unreasonably overall.  
Miss N disagreed and so her case has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
market value of Miss Ns car 
As the investigator  explained, Miss N was entitled  under  her policy  to the market  value of her 
car because  it was uneconomical to repair. This is an amount that reflects her cars value 
immediately before it was damaged. It takes  into account a number of factors including her 
cars age, condition, mileage and specification. Advantage  at first offered her £2,000 but 
later increased this to £2,300. Miss N didnt think that this was enough.
The investigator also explained to Miss N our approach regarding  complaints about car 
valuations. We dont  decide what the market  value of a car is; we merely  consider whether 
or not the insurer  has reached a fair and reasonable amount having  regard to the valuations 
in the motor trade guides. Our approach is to look at a number of motor trade guides that are 
used to value  cars.  We believe  they give a reasonable and independent guide and are a 
reliable indication as to value as theyre based  on nationwide research  of selling prices (not 
advertised, as cars may often be sold for less than the advertised price).  
I can see that Advantage did use these guides that the investigator  has checked them, and 
that Advantages settlement offer of £2,300  (less her policy  excess)  is the top end of those 
valuations. So I think that Advantage did value Miss Ns car fairly.
Missing bumper 
Miss N also complained that Advantages salvage agents lost her cars bumper. Advantage 
assessed her car as being a category N write off, which means that a car is repairable, but it 
retains that categorisation from then on. Miss N wanted her car back to repair it herself. 
Insurers will normally allow this, subject to making  a deduction for the cars salvage value 
from their market value settlement offer. Advantage had sent her car to their salvage agents, 
but when she got it back  from them, its bumper was missing.  
Ref: DRN83233902Miss n said that this cost her more money  because shed wanted to keep driving her car until 
she could get it repaired, but she couldnt drive her car without its bumper. And she said she 
had to pay for it to be towed, and couldnt get a second opinion  on whether it would still have 
been driveable without its bumper. 
Advantage apologised for the missing  bumper. They looked for it but it couldnt be found. But 
they said the bumper was damaged and so needed repair  anyway. They said her cars 
salvage value  was £575. So that was what they could  have  deducted from her market value 
settlement offer when they gave her back her car. But because of their agents mistake, 
Advantage decided to deduct only £80 instead.  So that meant that Advantage effectively 
offered her another  £495. 
But Miss N said this didnt  cover the cost of replacing the bumper. She said as follows. She 
accepted that Advantage decided to write  off her car because  the cost of repairs was more 
than its market value,  but that didnt mean that it wasnt  driveable.  She had been  driving  her 
car after the accident, when it had its bumper, and so it was driveable before it went into the 
first garage. That garage reported  that her car had non-structural damage and was 
roadworthy and that the damage was light and her cars condition  was fair. Another garage,  
to whom she showed photos  of her car, before the bumper was lost, agreed it should  have  
been driveable. She felt that Advantages losing the bumper made  her car undriveable. Miss 
N has since had her car repaired and she said it passed its MOT.
Advantage said her car was undriveable regardless of the missing bumper and that this was 
because of its suspension problems. They relied  on an engineers  report  written after the 
bumper was lost. Ive looked  at that report and also at the report  from the garage (the first 
report) before the bumper was lost. I see that both reports  do say slightly  different things, but 
both say that her car was a Category  N write off. However, although  the first report did say 
roadworthy I dont  think it would  be fair to interpret that as meaning that the car was safe to 
drive, even if it had been driven after the accident.  Indeed the first reports  categorisation as 
Category N was on the assumption that the car would be repaired to a safe and road legal 
condition. 
Both reports show that her car needed an extensive  amount of work, and that even when the 
bumper was still there, it needed replacement and repair of bumper parts,  then painting.  So 
according to both reports, her car couldnt have been put back on the road without extensive  
repair, and would be marked  a Category  N write off which would have to be disclosed to 
future buyers. Both reports acknowledged that the damage to her car wasnt  structural and 
that it could be repaired, but that didnt mean that it was safe to drive.
I think that Advantage fulfilled their obligations under  Miss Ns policy by paying her cars 
market value instead of repairing it. They should also have given her car back  with its 
bumper, but because that was no longer possible  due to their mistake, they have given  her 
car back for £80, when  they could have  charged  her £495 more. Given that her cars bumper 
area was going  to require replacement and repair anyway, I dont think that was 
unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN83233903Miss N didnt repair her car right away but chose  to wait for the outcome of her complaint 
against Advantage. She said that if her car had its bumper she would have been able to 
drive it until it was repaired, but couldnt  because of Advantages mistake. But, although her 
policy didnt entitle her to a courtesy car, Advantage did in fact give her one. This was a 
gesture of goodwill because they accepted  that they could have handled  the situation better. 
They gave her the courtesy car for several  months, at a cost to them of about  £775. 
Miss N complained that she had to keep phoning  Advantage and so incurred costs in doing  
this. She also complained  that because Advantage didnt deal with the matter  faster,  she 
ended up paying  more for a car parking permit. This was because  instead of getting  one for 
her own car, she had to get a temporary  one for the courtesy car. She wanted compensation 
for her time spent sorting this permit issue out with her local council.  And she complained  
that Advantage took the courtesy car back before her complaint was resolved,  and that this 
caused problems  as she had to rely on public transport then, and couldnt take her disabled 
relative out on car trips.  She wanted  compensation for this.
But I dont think that Advantage  have been unreasonable  here. The incident happened in 
December and Advantage categorised her car as a total loss in January, and offered the 
salvage adjusted  settlement of her claim in February.  So I dont think that was an 
unreasonably long period. They also gave her their final response to her complaint in about 
March, so again they werent unreasonable there. And Miss N wasnt  entirely  without a car 
until then because Advantage gave  her a courtesy car, which they werent required to do, at 
some considerable cost to them. They even let her keep  this for about a month  after theyd 
given their final response to her complaint. 
I appreciate that Miss N is unhappy that she didnt get her car back  from the salvage agents 
exactly as she would  have wished, but I think that Advantage have done enough to resolve 
this for her and have  done more than they needed  to, and so I dont think  it would be fair for 
me to ask them to do anything  else.  
 my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8323390