K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say St Andrews Insurance PLC mis-sold them  a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs J bought  the policy in May 2004, a few months after taking out a mortgage. 
They applied for PPI policy through the post.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs J for accident, sickness,  and unemployment 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £280.48 a month towards Mr and 
Mrs Js mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. So, if both Mr and Mrs J 
claimed at the same  time it would  have paid out £560.96.  At the time,  it cost £34 a month. 
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a groundworker for a local authority. He has told us he 
was entitled to 12 months full sick pay. This is unusually high for the type of role Mr J worked 
in and is in excess  of that paid by local authorities  to their employees. I think  its more likely 
that Mr J was entitled to six months full sick pay followed by six months half sick pay. He 
has told us he was entitled to redundancy pay which would have been based on his nine 
years of services. Mr J had experienced some orthopaedic problems in the year or so before 
the sale. 
Mrs J was employed in sales administration and had been  working  for her employer for three 
years. She has told us she was entitled to three  months full sick pay followed by three 
months half sick pay. Its likely she was entitled  to some redundancy pay based  on her 
length of service. Mrs J has told us she had a medical condition  diagnosed about two years 
before the sale. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt have any savings they could have used to make their mortgage 
repayments if theyd  hadnt been  able to work.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
that into consideration when deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.  Having done  so, Im not 
upholding their complaint.  Ill explain why.
did Mr and Mrs J know they had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs J say they 
didnt even know they had the PPI  indicating they didnt have a choice - and that they 
didnt receive any information  about  it. 
Ref: DRN83685772The policy was sold separately to their mortgage - their mortgage  had already  started  by the 
time the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs J. St Andrews  has provided a copy of the PPI 
application form Mr and Mrs J completed and signed. Its very clear  about what  they are 
buying, and the wording  makes it clear that its optional.  I think Mr and Mrs J would have 
known it was optional  in any case,  as their mortgage  had already started by this point. Mr 
and Mrs J returned the application  form and direct debit mandate by post. 
Mrs J made  a successful claim on the policy a few months after it started. I am satisfied she 
couldnt have  done that without knowing she had it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs J knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  didnt provide advice to Mr and Mrs J during this sale. This means  St Andrews 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs J. Instead, it had to give them  
sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable them  to make an informed  choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs J were given a broad description of what  the policy was 
intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if they were unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the costs.  I can see this from the 
application form they completed.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs J agreed  to take out the 
policy. 
So I dont  think St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs J sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
what effect did St Andrewss shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs J? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs J suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs J. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs J would have still taken out the policy, had St Andrews done  things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs J say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN83685773As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs J had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr or Mrs J being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs J chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs J thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this differed  
is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs J have suffered any loss or 
detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs J were given  about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Js circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs J were eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations,  couldve  proved  valuable  to them should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. And the policy didnt exclude  pre-existing medical  
conditions or unemployment  claims if the policyholder hadnt been permanently  employed at 
the time of sale. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Mr and Mrs Js representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI 
complaints; these policies represented  poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  
good faith meant St Andrews  should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Js representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific  facts 
and circumstances  of their individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Js particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs J would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if either of them were  made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs J would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. This means  that St Andrews  Insurance PLC doesnt 
have to do anything. 
Ref: DRN83685774Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 September 2021.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8368577