K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax)  will not refund the money he 
lost after falling victim  to a scam.
background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 23 April 2020  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought it would be fair and reasonable for the 
bank to fully refund Mr P. Overall I said Bank of Scotland fairly and reasonably ought to have 
done more when speaking to Mr P before he made  the first payment. I felt if it had done so, 
its more likely than not that Mr P would not ultimately have made any of the payments he 
did because the unfolding scam would have come to light.  
I invited both parties to respond with any additional  comments or information  they wanted  
me to take into account.
Mr P agreed with my provisional decision and confirmed he had nothing further to add. 
Bank of Scotland confirmed it accepted my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither the bank nor Mr P disagreed with my provisional decision, Ive found no reason 
to reach  any different conclusion. My decision remains the same  as set out in my provisional 
decision and for the same  reasons.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc should now:
refund  Mr P the £36,000  loss
pay Mr P the interest he would  have earned  on the £36,000  had it remained in his 
savings accounts  from the date of each withdrawal to the date of settlement 
pay Mr P £250 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience he has 
experienced 
If Bank of Scotland Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold 
income tax from any interest  award, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Mr P a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN80334812Bank of Scotland Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
it Mr P accepts  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 June  2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80334813COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr P complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) will not refund the money  he lost after 
falling victim to a scam.
background
Between 21 and 23 January 2018, Mr P received  a number of phone calls from someone claiming to 
be from the fraud department of the bank where he holds  his main current  account. For ease, Ill refer 
to this bank  as Bank H. 
It turned out the caller  was a scammer.  Mr P fell victim to a safe account scam and transferred over 
£80,000 from his accounts  with Bank H and £36,000 from his Bank of Scotland  savings  accounts. 
Mr P has raised  a separate complaint about the money transferred from his accounts held with Bank 
H. So in this decision, Im only looking  at the two transfers made from Mr Ps Bank of Scotland 
savings accounts. 
the scam
Mr P told me that the scammer first contacted him during  the afternoon on 21 January  2018. He was 
pretending to be from Bank H and told Mr P someone was trying to use his bank card to make 
payments. Mr P told me he was particularly concerned about  this because earlier that day hed 
purchased a kitchen appliance using the card. Ive seen Mr Ps bank statement and it shows his 
transaction to a home electronics retailer. Mr P says the scammer went through  security procedures  
and sounded professional.  The scammer  told him that Bank Hs fraud team would need  to look into 
the matter further.  The scammer gave Mr P a security code and told him they would  ring back  later 
that evening. 
Mr P recalls  he was contacted later that evening  at around  9.30pm. The scammer  told him someone 
was trying to move money out of his Bank H account  but the transactions  were pending  so he couldn't 
see them. 
The scammer told Mr P they were investigating Bank H staff in conjunction with the Police and the 
financial regulator, the FCA. Mr P was told his money was at risk and the only way he could prevent 
corrupt staff from removing  his funds was to transfer them  into different accounts  in his name. The 
scammer told Mr P that because of the Open Banking system,  Bank Hs staff would be able to view 
and access other accounts he held at different organisations too. Mr P told me hed not heard of Open 
Banking before  but it sounded plausible from what the scammer said. 
The scammer told Mr P 15 other victims had been identified. Mr P said the scammer sounded  rational 
and knew a lot about the banking system. Mr P was told to monitor his Bank of Scotland  accounts  
overnight to see if any money was moved. Bank of Scotlands online banking  records show that Mr P 
logged in at 10.05pm and logged off at 10.07pm. The scammer arranged to call Mr P again  before he 
started work  the following morning. 
The scammer called Mr P as arranged. Bank of Scotlands online banking records show Mr P logged 
in at 6.02am. Mr P said it was the same gentleman  hed spoken to the previous day. He said that they 
talked generally and the scammer engaged Mr P in conversation about his hobbies. 
the payments
Mr P made two payments from his Bank of Scotland accounts to the account  details the scammer 
gave him. The first payment,  for £25,000,  was made  on 22 January 2018. Mr P initially tried to make 
the payment online. He had to set up a new payee. 
Ref: DRN80334814The payment was stopped for additional security checks.  Mr P phoned  the bank and spoke to a call 
handler in Bank of Scotlands fraud team.  He was on the call for around sixteen  minutes. The call 
recording has been provided to me. Mr P told me that he had the call with the scammer and the call 
with Bank of Scotland running  side by side so the scammer could hear his conversation with the bank. 
He said the scammer had given him a cover story to use if the bank asked him any questions about it. 
Following the call, the payment was made. The banks records show Mr P logged off his online  
banking at around 6.44am.The scammer  arranged  to call Mr P again  the following  day.
The second  payment, for £11,000, took place on 23 January 2018.  The banks online  records show 
Mr P logged in at 6.21am.  Mr P made this payment online to the same account  details hed set up for 
payment one. No further checks were  made. 
I asked Mr P how he found out hed been tricked. He explained that the genuine Bank H called him 
and told him they were  concerned he was at risk of being a victim of fraud because of the activity  on 
his accounts there. 
I asked Mr P if hed talked  to anyone else about what was happening  over the days  that the scam 
unfolded. Mr P explained he lives alone  in a fairly rural location, so didnt discuss anything with friends 
or neighbours. He said he only had contact with the banks involved and the scammer during this time.  
Mr P told me the money was meant to go towards his pension and that his retirement  plans have 
been impacted as a result. 
Mr Ps complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland let him down. He says he never received any written notifications about  
this type of fraud, so didnt  know what to look out for. He told me he doesnt use social media and 
wasnt aware of this type of scam before it happened to him. 
Mr P suggests  the banks  warnings in the phone call that took place before the first transfer was made  
were not specific  enough  to alert him to the risk of this type of scam. Hes also concerned that the 
accounts his funds were  transferred into were operating illegally. Hes questioned why Bank of 
Scotland didnt contact him about the second payment too given it had concerns  about  the first one. 
He also suggested  Bank of Scotlands attempts to recover the money  he lost didnt go far enough. 
Bank of Scotlands  response  
Bank of Scotland  looked  into Mr Ps concerns but didnt  agree there had been any bank error. It said 
Mr P had authorised  the payments and specifically  confirmed the first payment to be genuine.  
It said it did try to recover the funds,  but they were  no longer available  to be returned to him. 
Mr P didnt agree,  so referred his complaint to us. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
relevant considerations 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes  of practice; 
and, where  appropriate, what I consider to have  been  good  industry  practice at the time. 
Ref: DRN80334815In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process  payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.  And I have taken that into 
account when deciding what is fair and reasonable  in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank  may be liable to its customer  if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where it has reasonable  grounds (although not necessarily proof)  for believing 
that the payment  instruction was an attempt  to misappropriate  the funds of its customer (known 
as the Quincecare  duty). 
Regulated firms  like Bank of Scotland are also required to conduct their business  with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle  for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider  firms should  also have taken 
proactive steps to: 
identify and assist vulnerable  consumers and consumers in vulnerable circumstances, including 
those at risk of financial exploitation (something  recognised by the FCA in recent years and by 
the British Bankers Associations February 2016 report improving  outcomes  for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances ); 
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could  involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something  also recognised by 
the British Standards  Institutes October 2017 Protecting  Customers from Financial  harm  as a 
result of fraud or financial  abuse   Code  of Practice , which  a number  of banks  and trade 
associations were  involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch  transactions  follow the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used,  where a bank 
should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably  take additional steps,  or make additional checks, before  
processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment  altogether, to help protect  
customers from the possibility  of financial harm. 
This is particularly so in light of the environment  created by the increase in sophisticated  fraud and 
scams in recent years  - which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer. 
So taking all of this into account,  in this case, I need to decide whether  Bank of Scotland  acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings with Mr P when  he made payments  to a scammer, or whether it should  
have done more  than it did.
Having considered  all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, Im not persuaded Bank of 
Scotland did as much as it ought to have done.  
Both sides accept the call Mr P received  was made by someone impersonating  a member of Bank Hs 
staff. He was convinced  by the call he received  and its clear  that hes been the victim of a cruel, 
sophisticated and protracted social engineering scam. 
To work out whether Bank of Scotland missed  opportunities to identify that Mr P was at risk of 
financial harm, I will look at each in payment he made in turn, as well as considering  the overall 
sequence of the events as they developed.
Ref: DRN80334816payment one
The payment of £25,000  Mr P tried to make  from his online savings account initially flagged  up as 
being unusual. Mr P hadnt  transferred funds  from this account before. The last time he accessed his 
savings accounts  online was in June 2016 when he printed some statements. Ive seen statements  
for this account going back to June 2016. Mr P didnt use the account  at all between June 2016 and 
the day the payment was made, so his intention to make  a transfer of £25,000 to a new payee  does 
stand out as being particularly  out of character for him. As such, its not surprising it flagged as 
unusual on the banks systems, which  led to Mr P speaking with the fraud team.
Bank of Scotland  agrees it was correct to flag the first payment. But it says Mr P provided plausible 
responses to the questions  he was asked and the operative was comfortable he was not showing any 
signs of duress, so allowed the payment  to proceed. It says that if it did intervene and stop 
transactions irrespective of the answers provided  by the customer,  this could result in significant harm 
in terms of customers suffering consequential  losses from being  unable to access  their funds. 
I have listened to a recording of the conversation that took place. At 6.26am, Mr P called the fraud 
team and told the call handler that hed been trying to make a payment  online that had been declined.  
The call handler asked Mr P for his sort code and account number. She asked Mr P how much the 
payment was for and he confirmed it was £25,000. 
At around a minute  and a half into the call, the operative explained that she needed to ask Mr P some 
verification questions before  she could  help him. Mr P provides his full name, address and date of 
birth. He was then asked to provide details  from his National Insurance number, the name of his 
account holding  branch and the name of his employer and its address.  
At around five minutes into the call, the operative explains the answers Mr P gave didnt match the 
banks records. She said she could verify him using  a driving licence or passport instead. Theres 
around a minute  of silence whilst the operative loads  a different computer  system. 
Then the operative says: In the meantime, while  I wait for this, can you tell me what is the payment 
[sic] for?
Mr P replied: Ermyeah,  Im moving it across, caus, err, so I can errcaus Im thinking  of buying a 
property
The operative  asked: Oh so youre sending  it to your own, your own accountfrom  one of your 
accounts to another?
Mr P said: Ermjust transferring it to my other account yes, just so I can accumulate the funds  in 
one place.  
The operative  replied: Thats fine. 
She then goes on to ask Mr P to confirm his date of birth and continues  with the verification of his 
passport. At around nine minutes into the call, the passport verification is complete and the operative 
explains the payment was stopped  for a security check. 
She says: We just wanted  to make  sure that its you making this payment and its all genuine. 
Mr P replied: Right
The operative  says: So its going to Bank H yeah?
Mr P: Correct, yeah. 
She replies: Okay. So its first time [sic], I mean, you just added this beneficiary 
Ref: DRN80334817The operative  asks Mr P about the device  hes using to make the payment and whether its the usual 
one he would  use. She explains the bank has detected phishing:
 Now, we detected  phishing on your device  so thats  one of the reasons the payment stopped.  So 
today at 6.02am,  so about half an hour ago, we detected phishing on your device, so wed advise you 
to run a virus  scan please.  So phishing  it means maybe you received  an email or you clicked on 
something on a certain link that maybe you know, you know  what  phishing is, yeah,  when someone 
sends you
Mr P interrupts and says err yes.
The banks operative continues: they  try to fish for information so make sure, dont click on any 
links, that you get in emails and dont answer in email and dont  give any information.. (inaudible) 
run a virus scam  on your device. There is also something I need to read out to you to make you 
aware of some types of scam weve seen. 
So we felt that your payment had a higher than normal  risk of being  fraudulent. So remember that 
once payments leave your account the money are gone [sic] and we are unlikely to recover them  [sic] 
Fraudsters are contacting customers with convincing stories. They  can be very believable and may 
contact you from a number,  WhatsApp or social media  contact that you recognise. They may ask you 
transfer money to a safe account or try to gain access to your online banking.
Mr P replied: yep
The banks operative continued: So we stopped this payment today because we wanted to make 
sure it was not the case with this payment
Mr P replied: Okay, yep
The banks operative continued: Fraudsters often tell customers not to discuss the call with the bank, 
but this makes it more  difficult  for us to protect you from fraud. So Im just going to ask a few...err..  
quick questions now. Its important to listen carefully  and answer truthfully because if 
somehowyoud be the victim of fraud, then you wouldnt be covered, you know, if you, basically, if 
you dont tell us, you know, the issue, what is.
So, just to confirm, youve said youre sending money to your own account yeah?
Mr P replied: It is indeed, yeah 
The banks operative continued: Bank H, okayerm, did you receive any calls recently from either 
from the bank or police  or your internet company?  Mr P replied: Err no
The operative  continued: And  ask you to make any payments or anything like that? 
Mr P replied No I havent. 
The operative  continued: And  roughly  do you remember when was the last time you spoke with 
someone from the bank?  
Mr P: Err, what from Bank H?
The operative:  No,no,no,us,from our bank.
Mr P: Ooo a long time ago. The operative interrupted Mr P and they spoke over each other: No 
thats fine,  probably aboutI dont need exactfive or six years probably.
The operative  continued: And  did you have  to take an automated  call? 
Mr P: When  I did it yes, I had to put a code in, yes. 
Ref: DRN80334818The operative  continued: Okay  that was when you were setting  up the payment correct? 
Mr P: Yes. 
The operative  continued: Okay thats fine. Okay Im just approving your payment now.  And just to 
confirm so you havent  been contacted  and asked to make  this payment and youre happy to confirm 
that this is a genuine  payment  yeah?  Mr P responded: Yep. 
The operative  helped  Mr P log back into his online banking before the call ended.  There  was no 
further discussion about  the nature of the payment he was about  to make. 
From what Ive heard, this conversation had very little impact on Mr P in the moment. Even though the 
operative did read a script  about the risk of fraud and scams, Im not persuaded  it was enough, in 
these particular  circumstances. At that time, Mr P had been hoodwinked  into believing his money was 
at risk. The information he was provided with didnt  go far enough to enable him to understand the 
harm the bank  was trying  to warn him about. 
Bank of Scotland  knew,  or ought reasonably to have known, that scammers give customers cover 
stories that sound plausible. Bank of Scotland should have been  alive to the fact it was possible Mr P 
was providing  a cover story  and take that into account when deciding whether  to take further steps 
before accepting his instruction to process the payment, especially taking into account the amount of 
this payment and it being out of character with the way Mr Ps accounts  ran. The operative had 
identified that the payment  was being made to a new beneficiary which  had just been added  but didnt 
probe any further into this, despite the fact that its an indicator  that a customer  could be at risk of 
financial harm.
Bank of Scotland  said that if it intervenes and stops payments irrespective  of the answers it is given,  
this could  cause harm  to its customers. I accept there is a balance to be struck. But Bank of Scotland 
ought fairly and reasonably  to find out enough information about the purpose of a payment before  
accepting its customers instruction, to satisfy itself a customer  isnt likely at risk of financial harm.  In 
this case,  the operative didnt ask Mr P anything further about what hed said,  even though there were 
clear indications  that he may have been risk of financial harm. The emphasis was on identification 
and verification for the banks security  processes. 
The reason Mr P gave for making the payment (that he was thinking  of buying a property) wasnt 
sufficiently engaged with. The operative could have asked him if hed viewed  any properties, or when 
his completion  date was in case  he was moving the money  too soon and missing out on interest.  By 
not doing  so, the opportunity to meaningfully engage with Mr Ps payment was lost. Im not persuaded  
the operative could be satisfied Mr P wasnt  at risk of financial harm, especially as shed noted the 
money was being sent to a new payee earlier in the call. 
I have noted that the operative  did specifically  mention transferring money  to a safe account. But Mr P 
thought he was moving money to another account  in his name with Bank H because thats what the 
scammer had told him. Mr P said he wasnt  aware of this type of scam before it happened to him. So 
Im not persuaded  the term safe account  meant anything to him at that time,  or that it would  have 
been enough  to cause him to stop and question the payment he was intending to make.
In addition to this, I am also mindful this scam involved  more than one financial institution. The 
discussion the operative  had with Mr P about contact from the bank resulted in them  being  
inadvertently at cross purposes, meaning the harm Bank of Scotland  was trying to protect him from 
was less likely to be identified.  No-one had called Mr P pretending to be from Bank of Scotland. I 
wouldnt expect the operative to necessarily  be aware  of all of the variations of a particular type of 
scam. But its possible Mr P would have provided  more information if hed been  given the opportunity 
to finish  or expand  upon  his answers. 
Ref: DRN80334819Ive thought carefully about  what  was likely to have happened  had the operative asked
further, probing, questions and of course I cant know for sure. So I need to decide what I think is 
more likely  than not to have  happened.
Having done so, I am not persuaded it is more  likely than not Mr P would have been
able to answer  further questions  sufficiently  to reassure Bank  of Scotland he was not the victim of 
fraud. Mr P would have needed  to think on his feet to answer probing questions. I am not persuaded 
he would have been able to improvise in the moment with compelling  details about  a fictional property  
purchase. Im also of the opinion  that if the operative had allowed Mr P to speak freely,  its more  likely 
than not he would have  inadvertently provided her with details  about the conversations he thought he 
was having with Bank  H that would  have  been  concerning.  So I think its more likely than not Bank of 
Scotland would have  identified, or Mr P would  have  realised, he was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Overall, I am satisfied that Bank  of Scotland fairly  and reasonably ought  to have done more when  
speaking to Mr P before  making this first payment, and if it had done so, its more  likely  than not that 
Mr P would not ultimately have made any of the payments he did because the unfolding scam would  
have come to light. 
payment two 
If Bank  of Scotland had done what I think it shouldve  done when  Mr P attempted  to make payment 
one, it follows that he wouldnt have gone on to make  payment two. But in any case, I will comment  
briefly on payment two. 
Mr P made a further payment of £11,000 to the scammer  the next morning. The payment was made 
online. There  was no further interaction with Bank of Scotland before the payment  was made. 
Bank of Scotland  says this transaction was not highlighted as displaying high risk characteristics. It 
added it is not unreasonable  or uncommon for a large majority of its customers  to make instructions of 
this value  from this type of account. 
I do understand that savings accounts can be used for one off or larger transactions, so it can be 
more difficult to identify unusual  spending  as a result. But Mr P only held savings accounts with Bank 
of Scotland. He did all of his day to day banking with Bank  H. 
So Bank of Scotland should have still been  on the look out for unusual or out of character transactions  
on his savings  accounts,  especially when, as was the case here,  they represent significant departures 
from the way those accounts  usually  ran. 
There was still an emerging  pattern of activity across Mr Ps Bank of Scotland accounts that was 
potentially indicative of fraud or financial  harm. 98% of his savings had been utilised in around 24 
hours. So I think Bank of Scotland should still have  made contact with Mr P to make further enquiries 
before processing this payment.
overall
Im satisfied that if Bank of Scotland had acted fairly and reasonably it could have prevented the fraud 
from continuing any further, and before Mr P made the first payment. If it had done so, I think  its more 
likely than not he would  not have  lost the money he did. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied that Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably  compensate Mr 
P for the losses he has suffered.
Ref: DRN803348110impact on Mr P 
Finally, Ive considered  whether Bank  of Scotland should pay Mr P compensation
for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of the banks actions.
Being targeted  by a scammer  and being a victim of a crime is undoubtedly going to have a
lasting impact on him. But Im not able to award compensation that flows  specifically from the actions 
of the scammer.
Having said that, I am persuaded the banks failure to act and to prevent financial  harm has
had a lasting impact on him too. If Bank of Scotland had done what it ought  to have done,  it would 
have intervened to stop the financial losses Mr P experienced before they happened, meaning the 
overall impact of this crime  would have been lessened. 
Mr P told me his savings  were intended for his pension and losing  the money  has changed  his 
retirement plans. When I spoke to Mr P he explained  he is still able to work at the moment and feels 
fortunate that it could have  been a lot worse. But I am mindful that he is over 70 years  of age and 
would need to continue  working  for longer than hed anticipated to replace  some of the money thats 
been lost. So I think Bank of Scotland should pay Mr P £250 in compensation to acknowledge  the 
uncertainty and worry for his future that its failings has caused.
putting things right
Im presently satisfied that if Bank  of Scotland had acted fairly and reasonably  it could  have prevented 
the losses  Mr P incurred. So, for the reasons I have explained, I intend to order Bank of Scotland  to:
refund Mr P the £36,000  loss
pay Mr P the interest he would  have  earned on the £36,000  had it remained in his savings  
accounts from the date of each withdrawal  to the date of settlement  
pay Mr P £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has experienced  
my provisional  decision
I intend  to uphold  Mr Ps complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
I now invite  both parties to provide me with any further evidence or information  by 23 May 2020.
Claire Marsh
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8033481