K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he spent a long time trying to pay a cheque into an automated machine 
at a branch of HSBC UK Bank Plc.
background
In January 2019 Mr H visited a branch  of HSBC to pay in some  cheques.  He tried to use the 
automated paying  in machine but his large sized cheque was rejected  several  times.
Mr H says he spent around  15 minutes trying  to pay in the cheque. Hes unhappy that 
members of staff ignored him. When Mr H asked for help he was told to see a cashier 
because the automated machines dont  accept large  cheques. Mr H says he had to wait for 
10 minutes to see a cashier.
Mr H feels that the bank should provide machines that accept all sizes of cheques. 
Alternatively, he says the bank should have a sign next to the machine advising customers 
that large cheques  cant be accepted. To resolve  his complaint Mr H wants  compensation for 
the inconvenience he suffered.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said it wasnt  possible to say whether staff 
had ignored Mr H or not and that it wasnt the role of this service to tell HSBC what  type of 
machines or signs it should have in its branches.
Mr H didnt agree. He felt that staff shouldve helped  him and said that the automated 
machines in another bank  accepted cheques of all sizes. He was also unhappy that no sign 
had been placed next to the machine he had tried to use despite HSBC  telling  him that it 
would ask the branch to do this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wasnt present when Mr H visited the branch and theres no CCTV footage  available so Ive 
considered the comments made by the bank in response to Mr Hs complaint points about 
being ignored and having to wait for a cashier.
Mr H says he was ignored  by staff, who he describes as standing  around. The bank says 
that staff are usually  busy dealing with customer queries. I cant be certain of whether staff 
were ignoring Mr H but I accept that this was his perception. However, given the issues 
which Mr H was having with the machine, and given that on his own evidence he had seen 
staff that were free to assist him, I would have  expected Mr H to ask for help sooner than he 
did. I appreciate that Mr H feels that staff should  be proactive rather than reactive, but it can 
be difficult for staff in a busy environment  such as a bank to recognise that a customer  
needs help, and a proactive approach carries with it the risk that some customers  might feel 
that staff are intruding when they are carrying out private transactions.  On balance,  I dont 
think its likely that the staff deliberately ignored  Mr H and the evidence shows that as soon 
as Mr H asked for help he was provided with it.
Ref: DRN85009212I appreciate that Mr H was frustrated  at having to wait for a cashier to serve  him. 
Unfortunately, counter  staff can get very busy. It isnt realistic to expect the bank to 
compensate every customer who has to wait in a queue.
In relation to the machine,  I agree that a sign may have been  helpful. HSBC says it wrote to 
the branch to see whether  a notice could be placed  by the machine. It didnt guarantee that 
this would happen and whilst I understand Mr Hs disappointment that it hasnt  happened,  
this isnt something Im able to require the bank (or the individual branch) to do.
Ive read Mr Hs comments about  machines provided by other banks accepting larger 
cheques. Im not in a position to disagree. However,  the fact that one bank provides a 
machine which  accepts large cheques and another does not isnt a reason for me to say that 
HSBC has done  something wrong. In any event, its outside the remit of this service to tell 
HSB what machines it should use. Operational issues fall within the remit of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im unable  to conclude that HSBC has acted  unfairly and I 
wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8500921