K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that FirstRand  Bank Limited  mis-sold her a personal loan and refused to let 
her reject a faulty car.
background
In July 2016 Ms L acquired a second hand  car funded by a hire purchase agreement. She 
traded in her old car, but this was worth less than the finance  she had on it so she took out a 
personal loan of £1,170. The hire purchase and the loan were part of the same agreement. 
The car was some six years old and had done  74,000 miles. It cost £5,830. Ms L has 
explained that she had been ill and had undergone surgery few days  before buying the car 
and hadnt realised that she had taken out a loan in addition to the hire purchase agreement. 
In June 2018 she complained to FirstRand that the car was rusty and it had failed its MOT. 
At that point the car had done 97,000 miles. The dealer had ceased trading  by this time.
FirstRand said that Ms L had signed the documentation to say that the agreement  had been 
explained to her and so it didnt believe the loan had been mis-sold.  Furthermore,  it didnt 
consider there was evidence that the car wasnt  fit for purpose when it was sold.  
Ms L brought her complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said Ms L had signed the agreement 
which he considered  was set out in clear terms and wasnt misleading. The dealer had 
ceased trading  so he was unable to establish  its view on what happened, but he didnt  
believe the agreement  had been  mis-sold.
As for the issue of the quality of the car when sold he wasnt persuaded that it wasnt 
unsatisfactory. He said the Consumer Rights Act required the car to be of satisfactory quality  
taking into account  age, mileage etc. The car was six years old and had done  74,000  miles 
and a degree of wear  and tear was to be expected. He also noted  that Ms L hadnt 
complained until almost two years  had passed  and it was difficult  to conclude  the rust had 
been present  at the point  of sale.
Ms L didnt  agree and said she hadnt  been  told about the loan by the salesperson and as 
she had just come out of hospital she had been under duress. She said the rust had been 
identified at the first MOT since she acquired the car. She didnt think it right a nine year old 
car should suffer from rust.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
FirstRand is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN82505802The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Looking first at the quality  of the car when sold no independent report has been carried out 
and no other  evidence is available, other than the failed MOT and the photographs  which  
have been provided by Ms L. The photographs suggest the rust is in a place which  can be 
easily seen and I presume Ms L took the opportunity to inspect the car before agreeing  to 
the purchase. 
It is reasonable to assume that if the rust was present at the point of sale it could have been 
identified by her. I recognise she was only just out of hospital  but there is a degree  of 
responsibility on the consumer to be satisfied  with what they are buying. Of course it is also 
possible that the rust developed after the sale. Ms L has said she only became aware of it 
after a MOT examination,  but the cars  MOT history  shows no rust prior to the sale.
I also note that Miss L has been able to make  significant use of the car and drove  it for over 
24,000 miles in the period  up to June 2018. I accept  it has developed rust, but I dont have 
sufficient evidence to allow  me to conclude that it was present back in June 2016.
Turning to the matter  of the personal  loan I appreciate Ms L was recovering from an 
operation. My understanding is that a patient  is advised  not to make any important financial 
decisions after a major  clinical procedure and it isnt clear why Ms L entered  in to the 
agreement when she did. I would  add that I am not aware that the dealer was informed of 
her condition.
She says he didnt properly explain the agreement and that may be the case,  or it may be 
that he did, but in her condition she didnt take it in. However, I have looked at the 
documentation signed by Ms L and I can see that the details  are set out clearly. It shows that 
Ms L has taken out both a hire purchase arrangement and also a loan. The interest rate is 
set out and the monthly payments are also clear.  As such I cannot  see that the business has 
done anything  wrong. 
I do have sympathy with Ms L and I can appreciate her view that she entered into agreement  
she didnt fully appreciate for a car that is now rusty, but I cannot  safely  uphold her 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or reject my decision 
before 28 November 2019.
Ref: DRN82505803Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8250580