K820x#14complaint
Mr S says AXA France IARD (AXA)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mr S bought the policy in August 2000  at the same time as taking out a hire-purchase  
agreement. He applied for the hire-purchase agreement and PPI policy  in-store.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  the monthly repayment of Mr S hire-purchase  
agreement in the event of Mr S being unable to work  due to accident, sickness  and 
unemployment. 
The policy cost £2 a month and the premium would continue to have to be paid in the event 
of a successful claim. According to AXAs records, Mr S paid a total of just £4 for PPI. Mr S 
agreement contained  a six-month deferral period - a buy now pay later offer  where the 
first payment  wasnt  due for six months. It would therefore appear  that Mr S ultimately paid 
off the agreement after making two repayments.
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a production  supervisor. He has told us he was entitled  
to at least three months sick pay, death-in-service benefit and redundancy pay. Mr S said he 
didnt have any other means  such as savings he couldve used to make  his repayments. 
Finally, Mr S has said he had two medical  conditions, which he sought advice from a doctor  
for in 1987  and 1993 respectively. 
Mr S representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr S wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr S representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN86587622The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mr S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr S and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr S received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S complaint.
This sale took place  in August 2000 before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN86587623The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the Code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr S case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
Ref: DRN86587624circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mr S complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr S with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mr S sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr S, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr S suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr S know he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
AXA has provided a copy of Mr S hire purchase agreement. Looking at this I can see that if 
Mr S wanted  to take out PPI he had to sign separately from the main  agreement itself to 
agree to take out the policy. This section  said only sign if you want  cover. The cost of the 
PPI was also set out separately from the agreement  repayment here. If Mr S didnt want PPI, 
he couldve  left this section blank and only signed the main  credit agreement.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr S knew  the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
Both AXA and Mr S agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr S. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr S to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting 
Ref: DRN86587625in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr S was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr S was unable 
to work through disability and unemployment.) Ive reached this conclusion  because I think 
its unlikely Mr S would  have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy was 
for. I am satisfied Mr S understood the cost because this was set out on the agreement as I 
said above.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AXA gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
S agreed  to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think AXA gave Mr S sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr S representative has raised a number  of 
general points  in regard to the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr S. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr S representative considers  to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr S about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr S representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry  codes and standards  
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr S? To what extent did Mr S suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr S. 
Ref: DRN86587626So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr S 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr S 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Mr S says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr S had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr S chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr S thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr S has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr S was given about the cost was clear  it was a regular monthly 
premium, which  was set in the section Mr S signed  to agree to take out the policy. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
In addition, Im not persuaded  AXA made clear exactly  what Mr S would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim.  But I think its unlikely Mr Ss expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his repayments 
under the hire-purchase agreement)  were significantly different to what the policy  actually 
did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr S thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S knew  about or 
ought to have known about  or saw a doctor  about  during the 12 months before the 
start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr S pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr S from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr S circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
Ref: DRN86587627cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
Im mindful that Mr S has told us about  two medical conditions, which he sought treatment 
from a doctor for in 1987  and 1993 respectively. I think  its possible the policy wouldnt have 
provided cover had he needed time off work because of one of these conditions.  But after 
careful consideration of the evidence  I dont think better information  about this exclusion 
would have put him off agreeing to it. 
I say this because,  firstly  the condition Mr S spoke about from 1993  appears to have been 
an isolated incident. Mr S hasnt said he needed  time off work because  of it or that it caused 
him any ongoing problems  certainly  nothing that happened in the 12 months  before he 
took the policy out.
I accept Mr S first condition diagnosed in 1987  has the potential to be ongoing. But on the 
other hand, Mr S hasnt  elaborated  on things  only that he was prescribed medication at the 
time. So, I think its reasonable to assume  that this condition was well-managed. Again, Mr S 
hasnt said he needed to take any time off work because of this condition,  so I dont think  
hed have thought it wouldve likely been the main reason hed need time off work for.
Also, I havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr S might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr S 
from taking out the policy,  Mr S, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr S had known he could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into his thinking about what  he would  have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although its possible he may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr S was unable (through  disability)  to carry on his own 
job the chances that he would be able to take up a similar job would also,  in all probability,  
be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr S would  still have taken out the policy. 
The policy was sufficiently  close to what it is likely  he thought he was getting and provided 
benefits that would help him manage the consequences were  Mr S made redundant, or 
unable to work through disability. In the circumstances I consider it more  likely than not that 
Mr S would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Mr S representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
Ref: DRN86587628That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr S would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr S 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr S 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude AXA should  pay Mr S compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr S thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of AXAs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mr S, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2000 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr S and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr S in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN86587629my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8658762