K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the way esure Insurance Limited has investigated and handled a 
claim on his motor insurance policy.
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I will not repeat  them  again 
here in detail. Instead I will focus  on giving the reasons for my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. That is something only a 
court can consider.  We can only look into whether esure  has conducted a fair and 
reasonable investigation into his claim,  when making  its own decision on liability  and 
resolving the claim.
I think esure has investigated matters reasonably.  It considered the vehicles damage 
and approached witnesses once it knew of their details. It obtained statements from 
three witnesses but didnt pursue  obtaining any CCTV footage  as it was likely, if any 
had existed, that it wouldve been overwritten  due to the passage of time.  I think  that 
is all reasonable.
Under the terms of the policy esure  is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees  
fit. It also doesnt need Mr Ms approval  of any decision to admit liability, settle a 
claim or make a payment to a third party. Esure also isnt obliged to take a case to 
court even if the policy holder would  like it to so. Its entitled to consider the 
economics of proceeding to defend the case and the potential  costs and risks of 
proceeding to court.
Here esure couldnt get the third party to accept liability  and their insurer  raised a 
number of issues about discrepancies in the evidence. As a result esure decided it 
wouldnt pursue  matters further. I realise Mr M is unhappy about this but I dont think 
esure has failed to comply with the policy terms or exercised  its discretion unfairly or 
unreasonably when deciding to resolve  the claim  as its done. 
Mr M wants esure to compensate him for his personal injury. But his esure policy  was 
for standard  comprehensive  cover which doesnt  include  esure  meeting his uninsured  
losses, which include any personal injury  he might have suffered. So, I cannot  fairly 
or reasonably require  esure to compensate Mr M for his personal  injury claim as hed 
like. 
Mr Ms claim has been recorded  as a fault one because esure hasnt fully recovered 
its outlay. That is correct and I cant require it to change this unless esure were to 
subsequently recover all of its outlay. This record of a fault claim will also likely have 
an effect on Mr Ms renewal premiums. Thats unfortunate but not something  I can 
hold esure responsible for. I also cannot require it to reimburse him for any additional 
premiums he has paid or may have to pay in future  years as result.
Ref: DRN88412732I understand Mr Ms frustration. But taking  everything into account  I dont think esure 
has done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably  require it to do 
anything more or differently, including meeting his claim for damages for his personal 
injury or amending  his claims record. 
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint about esure Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8841273