K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the way Monese Ltd dealt  with his subject access  request.
To settle  matters Mr B would like Monese to provide the information  hes asked for together 
with compensation  and reimbursement  of his expenses.
background
Mr B made a subject  access  request (SAR) to Monese so he could obtain details of the 
personal information it held about  him. But his letter to Monese was later returned  to him. He 
later discovered this was because Monese  had moved offices and hadnt updated its new 
company address with the Information  Commissioners Office (ICO). He then sent another 
SAR  after hed checked Moneses address at Companies House.
Mr B is unhappy that Monese didnt respond to his SAR within the appropriate time limits. He 
also complains that when Monese responded to his SAR it transferred his personal 
information to a third party  so he could  access the information hed requested. He says he 
didnt provide his consent to this so he says Monese has acted in breach  of data protection  
laws.
Mr B brought his complaint to this service and to the ICO.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr Bs complaint  should  be upheld.  He explained that 
the role of this service  isnt to decide if a business has breached data protection laws  thats  
for the ICO to decide. But we can decide if its fair and reasonable to award a customer 
compensation for any impact caused  by a breach of data protection  laws.
Mr B provided a copy of the ICOs response to his complaint. In that response the ICO 
thought it unlikely that Monese had responded to Mr Bs SAR within  the applicable time 
limits. And it thought  it unlikely that Monese had breached data protection laws when it 
used a third party organisation to respond  to Mr Bs SAR. It said there  was no evidence  his 
information was disclosed to the third party. It thought the third party offered a secure 
method of transferring the information  and noted  that the information was encrypted  whilst 
the transfer took place.
The adjudicator took into account  the ICOs response. But he didnt consider it appropriate 
to award any compensation because he didnt think Moneses delay in complying with the 
SAR had had a substantial impact on Mr B. And he hadnt seen anything to show Mr B had 
suffered any financial  loss or personal  distress.
The adjudicator also took into account that the ICO considered it unlikely that Monese had 
breached data protection laws when it used a third party organisation to respond  to Mr Bs 
SAR for the reasons  given  by the ICO.
The adjudicator noted that Monese sent Mr B an email in late May 2018 to say his SAR was 
complete. Monese asked if it could send the information by courier. When Monese hadnt  
heard from Mr B it sent a further  email a few days later and uploaded his information to the 
third party with a link so Mr B could access the information.
The adjudicator noted that Monese sent Mr B the download link in an email  and sent the 
password as a text message on his mobile  phone separately.  So the adjudicator  wasnt 
Ref: DRN83339882satisfied his information was compromised or that hed been inconvenienced in any way. So 
he didnt recommend that Monese needed to do anything to put matters  right.
Mr B disagrees with the adjudicators view.  Hed like compensation because due to ICO 
saying it was unlikely  Monese had complied with his SAR in time and for Monese not 
updating its details  at the ICO. He says hes incurred out of pocket expenses in having to 
make multiple unanswered requests. And he says hes also still awaiting digital copies of 
the records he requested.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the adjudicator has explained. But given how 
concerned Mr B is about the matter Ive gone  into a little more depth in this final decision. I 
hope he finds this further explanation helpful.
I must firstly explain that the role of our service isnt to decide if a business has breached 
data protection  laws  thats the role of the ICO. But I can, and have, looked at whether its 
fair and reasonable to award compensation to Mr B for any impact the problems hes 
suffered has caused.
I can see the ICO considers it unlikely  that Monese complied with Mr Bs SAR within  the 
applicable time limits. However, I dont consider it appropriate to award  any compensation 
for this. I dont doubt it will have been  inconvenient  for Mr B to receive the information later 
than he was expecting. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Moneses delay has had 
any substantial impact  on him.
I can see Mr B has incurred costs of sending his letters to Monese by special delivery. I 
appreciate why he might have wanted to send  his SAR this way but I dont think  it was 
strictly necessary. So I dont consider this has had a substantial impact on him such  that a 
compensatory award is necessary.
Mr B would also like compensating for Moneses failure to update  its change  of address at 
the ICO. In terms of the impact on Mr B I can see he had to write a second letter to Monese 
and I can also see Monese didnt start processing his SAR until receipt of the second letter 
but again I dont consider the impact to be enough  for me to award compensation. 
Mr B says hes still not received digital copies of the information he requested in his SAR. 
Unfortunately its not within our powers to compel Monese to provide  this information. But as 
Ive explained  above I can look at whether its appropriate to award compensation for any 
impact this has had.
I can see Mr B has had paper copies  of the documents he asked for. I note his concerns that 
these are incomplete  but Ive explained  that we cant compel Monese to provide  the 
information Mr B believes  is outstanding.  Ive also seen that Monese made the information  
available to Mr B electronically by sending him a link to a third party website. But when Mr B 
objected to this Monese  arranged for the third party to delete his information.  I cant find that 
Monese acted unfairly in doing  this.
Ref: DRN83339883I can also see that Monese sent an encrypted USB stick containing the information. Mr B 
said this didnt contain any information and Monese  explained that this was because the 
USB stick had been configured to be read only with particular operating systems. For this it 
apologised.
It follows that I dont intend  to ask Monese to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8333988