K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2006 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £262.80 a month towards Mr and Mrs 
Ss mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £22.50 a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a chemical inspector. He has told us he was entitled 
to between three and six months sick and redundancy pay and had savings (jointly with 
Mrs S) equivalent to less than three months  of his salary. Mr S has said he was in good 
health/had a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
Lloyds Bank  has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account  started  in 
2006. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on 
their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
Lloyds Bank failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  
on handling  PPI complaints under DISP  App 3, it should  be presumed Mr and 
Mrs S wouldnt have  taken out the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr 
and Mrs s representatives  believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the 
value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds Bank 
should have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds Bank should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and 
Mrs S and the impact  they would have had on their chances of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN85173102The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and 
limitations on the scope of the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  
all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order  to decide  what  
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes 
of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice 
at the time. The Financial  Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI 
complaints on our website  and published  some example final decisions  that set out in 
detail how these relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I 
dont intend to set that out in much detail here, but Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004 
 as such this was a regulated mortgage contract. That means the unfair relationship  
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable.
This sale took place  in 2006 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So, the 
FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules 
(ICOB) are applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present 
statutory regulatory  regime  and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, 
indeed, the position at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. 
Ref: DRN85173103As a result, it is appropriate for me to take them into account along with the relevant 
ICOB rules and the other  relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of 
industry self-regulation by the General Insurance Standards Council  (GISC). It 
published The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance  Code for 
private customers  the GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards  of good  practice  
for its members to follow  when selling  insurance,  including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I 
consider to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected  from 
intermediaries, like Lloyds  Bank, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice 
for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. 
So, the mortgage conduct of business  rules (MCOB) are applicable to this complaint. 
Prior to regulation  subscribing lenders and mortgage  intermediaries followed a voluntary 
mortgage code.  While  predominantly about  mortgage related matters, it also included 
some insurance-related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law 
relating to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  
duty on professional  advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); 
the law relating to the duty of utmost good faith;  and the law relating  to causation and 
remoteness. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating 
to the sale of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became a regulated 
activity in January  2005, so Lloyds Bank was required  to take into account the provisions 
in DISP App 3 when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I 
need to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN85173104-If Lloyds Bank gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for 
them, given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds Bank gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out 
the policy, including drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair 
and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy  and significant 
limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr 
and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent Mr and Mrs 
S suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs 
S and Lloyds Bank, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds Bank  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr S completed an application  form specifically  for the PPI. The mortgage offer also 
made clear that Mr and Mrs S didnt have to take out any insurance with Lloyds Bank.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs S knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds Bank provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  Bank and Mr and Mrs S agree that advice was provided during this sale.  
This means  Lloyds Bank had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence 
suggests that Lloyds Bank took some  steps  to establish whether the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. The adviser had information about some  of 
Mr and Mrs Ss financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage  application.  But although 
a fact find was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs S had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances  I dont think  it did enough  
to ensure the PPI was suitable.
 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank did all it should 
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs S given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank advised with reasonable care and 
skill.
Ref: DRN85173105While Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank  did all it should have done to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss 
ability to continue to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if Mr S was not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for 
the employment benefits and savings they say they would have been entitled to. 
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs 
S. There  was nothing about  Mr Ss employment or occupation which  would have 
made it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt  told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions  that could affect  his ability to claim. There  were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each 
claim for disability and unemployment,  it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ss circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any 
similar gainful occupation condition, the requirement that Mr S be disabled  or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy 
would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy 
still provided valuable  cover given:
Mr Ss circumstances, including their employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income 
during the policys  60-day qualification period) and the limits to those 
provisions, which mean the policy could play an important role after those 
provisions were  exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs S be unable  to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  Bank gave Mr and Mrs S 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to 
understand what Lloyds Bank was recommending to them and make an informed 
decision about whether to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their 
payments if Mr S was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and 
of the approximate costs.  I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr 
Ref: DRN85173106and Mrs S would  have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for 
and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  Bank gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded 
Lloyds Bank  did enough  to present information  about the policy  it was recommending in 
a way that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank gave Mr and 
Mrs S all of the information  they needed about the policy  to make an informed  decision  
about whether  to follow the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons 
set out above,  I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has 
raised a number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when 
providing information in PPI sales.  It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, 
like Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business 
rather than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have 
just told Mr and Mrs S about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what 
a court  would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer 
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions  in the way Mr and Mrs S have suggested. And taking into 
account the law, industry codes and standards of good industry practice  applicable to 
this complaint, I dont  think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that Lloyds Bank ought to 
have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  Banks shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs S? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  Bank didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr 
and Mrs S. So, I have gone  on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs S suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds 
Bank done things  properly.  
Ref: DRN85173107While Im not persuaded Lloyds Bank  took the steps  it should  have done to establish  
whether the policy  it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the 
policy was ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if Lloyds Bank had explained 
things properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh 
up a number of factors before deciding  whether  to proceed. Effectively the consumer 
has to weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing  so given the benefits 
offered in return and the potential consequences  they will suffer  if they do not have 
insurance, should the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds Bank  advised  them  that there 
was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the 
event Mr S was unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to 
pay something for the policy, it doesnt  appear  Lloyds  Bank  told them  the exact premium 
at the point Mr and Mrs S applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and 
Mrs S would have been told the cost before the policy started  and they paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their 
expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds 
Bank at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  Bank  made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs S would 
get back in return  in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr 
and Mrs Ss expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  
the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
Ref: DRN85173108The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr 
S knew about or ought to have  known about before the start date of the policy  
and which reoccurred within the first 24 months of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on 
those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  
to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work  which  their experience,  
education or training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining 
term of the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  
The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, 
might have dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances from Mr and 
Mrs S from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr S was eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr S wouldve been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr 
S didnt  have any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent  employment. 
So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr 
and Mrs S would  have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr S was unable  to do 
both their job and any similar gainful occupation which in the insurers view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mr S was unable 
(through disability) to carry  on their own occupation  the chances  that they would be able 
to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds Bank  may not have told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited  
to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what they expected  and might have 
hoped for  but 12 months was a longer period  than Mr and Mrs S would have received 
full sick pay for, and their statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less 
than 12 months income.
Ref: DRN85173109In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy 
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs S be unable to work  in 
the circumstances covered  by the policy. The policy allowed  for multiple  claims to be 
made, it could help reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure 
their home was not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Ss 
sick pay or redundancy money for other  use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more 
likely than not Mr and Mrs S would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable 
for them, was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr S were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the policy  in any 
event notwithstanding  the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed 
the consumer  wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence  to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account 
along with many other things when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. 
Considering the purpose of the guidance,  I dont think it was ever intended  to be at odds  
with the approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might 
lead to. In the language of DISP  App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude 
there were substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP  App 3 
says it should  be presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought the PPI they bought  
unless, in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the 
presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is 
rebutted in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude 
the position Mr and Mrs S found  themselves in as a result of the sale was the same 
position they would have  been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they 
would not have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 
(which I dont consider  I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, 
that it would  represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would  
have been in if they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the 
policy, I am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would 
Ref: DRN851731010still have taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy they were buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and 
reasonable in those  circumstances, to conclude Lloyds Bank should  pay Mr and Mrs S 
compensation, as that would put them  in a better position than they would  have been  in 
if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Lloyds Bank misrepresented  the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might 
conclude some of Lloyds Banks  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  
the reason why Lloyds Bank  failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  
it did or didnt say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information 
Lloyds Bank  gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet  the standards 
I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2006 when providing  
information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  
take if it were to find Lloyds Bank negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs 
S and about  the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Lloyds Bank had been 
in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the 
reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and 
Mrs S in a better position than if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my 
opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the 
reasons I have set out above,  I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8517310