K820x#14complaint
Mr M is a director of a limited company, which Ill call D. He complains  on its behalf. 
Briefly, Mr M complains  that Ds lender unreasonably failed to agree to his 2010 proposal to 
restructure Ds loan. He says Ds lender eventually agreed to a very similar restructuring 
proposal in 2013,  but in the meantime both he and D suffered extensive damage as a direct  
result of the lenders conduct.
The loan Mr M complains  about was originally taken  out in 2007,  and was itself a restructure  
of earlier  lending. In 2007, Ds lender was Northern Rock plc. Subsequent changes  to Ds 
lender have been due to changes at Northern  Rock, rather than because Mr M chose to 
move Ds borrowing. By the time Mr M referred  this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Ds lender was NRAM Ltd.
Mr M has also complained on behalf of another limited company, which Ill call P. His 
concerns about  the lenders treatment of D and P are very similar, but since  the two 
companies both have their own individual complaints  Ive issued two separate final 
decisions. I hope the parties will understand  why those decisions are expressed  in very 
similar terms.
background
In 2007, D took a new loan from Northern Rock, fixed at 5.18% plus a margin of 1.1% for 10 
years. Northern Rock  told Mr M that if D repaid all or part of the loan within 10 years, it would 
have to pay break costs.
D later experienced  financial  difficulties. In late 2009  Mr M wrote to Ds lender to explain why 
D was unable to meet its December 2009 interest  payment. Mr M and his representatives 
met with Ds lender  in early 2010  to discuss proposals for restructuring the loan, but were  
unable to reach agreement. Ds lender was not prepared to allow D to add break costs to a 
new loan.
In 2013, Ds lender agreed to Mr Ms proposals. Briefly, it allowed D to break  its 2007  loan 
and add the break costs to a new loan.  The lender also took a personal guarantee from 
Mr M (although I understand it has since said that it considers Mr M released from his 
obligations under  that guarantee).
In 2016, Mr M complained  about Ds lenders conduct. He said that if the lender had 
accepted his proposals in 2010, the break  costs  on Ds loan would have been significantly 
lower  and D would also have had to pay much less interest in the three years from 2010.
Ds lender did not uphold  the complaint. It said it was entitled  to change its position  between 
2010 and 2013. It described  its 2013 agreement as a rational decision in light of the 
worsening of arrears and the continued  low interest rate environment, which led to serious  
concerns about  the sustainability of the loans on their existing terms. 
Mr M referred Ds complaint  to our service. Ds lender  consented to our consideration of the 
complaint, despite  potential  concerns about time limits.
One of our adjudicators investigated Ds complaint. He thought Ds lender had treated it 
fairly. Mr M and his representatives  did not agree, so the matter was referred to me.
Ref: DRN80025422Briefly, Mr M and his representatives say:
Both our adjudicator  and Ds lender have suggested that Mr M was free to refinance 
elsewhere in 2010.  However, in practice  that was impossible due to the arrears on 
Ds account  which themselves  were a result of the loan having  been mis-sold. 
The lender  knew in 2010 that the low interest rate environment was ongoing. Based 
on evidence including  minutes from the Bank of Englands  monetary policy 
committee, the lender must have realised well before 2013 that interest  rates were 
likely to stay low.
Mr M does  not accept  that the Bank  only became aware  of the [un]sustainability of 
the loans on their existing terms  in 2013. The difficulties were  evidenced  from 
Mr Ms correspondence from 2009 onwards.
The lenders decision to allow D to break  its loans in 2013 shows  the perversity and 
unreasonableness of their earlier  decision .
They do not believe the lender followed the relevant rules in its dealings  with D. In 
particular, they believe the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) has ordered that break  
costs cannot exceed  7.5% of any loan amount.
The lender  acted in bad faith.  The organisational changes  at the lender, including a 
revolving door of account managers , hindered Mr M in his attempt to deal with his 
property portfolio.
The lender  was benefiting from fixed rate loans at 6.28% when interest rates  had 
fallen well below that from 2008 onwards.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, theres very little I can 
add to our adjudicators comments.
Whilst Mr M says D would not have taken  out the loan in the first place if break costs had 
been properly  explained, he and his representatives  have also made clear that D is not 
complaining about the original sale of its loan. Ds representative explicitly said that the true 
ambient of the complaint  pertained not to the magnitude or principle of the 2010  breakage  
costs but to the Banks refusal  to entertain [Mr Ms 2010 restructure proposal] only to agree 
to the same  proposals  subsequently.  I have therefore only considered the lenders  
behaviour from 2010 onwards. 
Mr Ms 2010 proposal meant breaking Ds existing loan and adding the resulting break costs  
to a new loan.  His lender  wasnt prepared  to do that. I consider his lenders decision to be a 
legitimate exercise  of its commercial discretion, and I see no grounds  on which I could 
criticise it.
I know Mr M does not accept Ds lenders explanation  for its decision to accept his proposals  
in 2013 but not 2010.  But I dont see anything  unreasonable in its explanation. I note:
Ref: DRN80025423The wider economic environment changed between  2010 and 2013. Ds lender 
would certainly have had a view in 2010  about the likelihood  and timing of future  
interest rate changes, but it could not have had actual knowledge of what would  
happen to rates  over the next three years.  
The Bank of England  monetary policy committee minutes from 2010 do comment on 
medium and long term interest rates. But they do not  and could not  provide 
certainty about what was going to happen  to interest rates in future.
Ds position changed between 2010  and 2013. In 2010,  whilst  Mr M had an informed 
opinion of Ds likely turnover over the next three  years, again he could not have had 
actual knowledge  of what Ds financial situation would be in 2013.
Ds lenders own position  changed  between 2010 and 2013. Its difficulties have been 
well publicised. Given that background, I fully accept its comment  that its lending  
appetite changed over time.
Its obvious that D would have paid less interest between 2010 and 2013  if it had 
taken a variable rate loan in 2007. But it doesnt automatically follow that Ds lender  
will have  made  higher profits over that period as a result  that would depend, 
amongst other things,  on the lenders funding  arrangements.  But I havent  
investigated the lenders profit level. Regardless  of the lenders own position, I think  it 
was reasonable  for it to require its borrower  to comply with the existing agreement  
between them.  
I havent investigated whether it was practical for D to refinance elsewhere in 2010, 
but I accept Mr Ms evidence that it was not. Given Ds rental income  as a 
percentage of its debt,  I can see why alternative lenders might have found Ds 
business unattractive. But that does not mean  Ds existing  lender had any obligation 
to accept Mr Ms proposals, either in 2010  or later.
Ds loan was a fixed rate loan. It was not a derivative product, and it was not included  
in the review of interest rate hedging products (IRHPs) agreed between certain 
banks and the FCA. The principles of that review therefore  do not apply to Ds loan. 
Similarly, the rules applying to regulated products  do not apply here.  But in any case  
I dont think Ds lender treated it unfairly.   
Even if D had taken out an IRHP,  the FCA did not say that break costs should never 
exceed 7.5% of an outstanding loan amount. Instead, the FCA said that if appropriate 
redress for an IRHP sale was to put the customer in the position they would have 
been in if they had taken out an alternative  IRHP  instead, then that alternative 
product would not have had potential  break  costs in excess  of 7.5%, in a pessimistic  
but plausible  scenario,  of the amount hedged at the point  of sale. The FCA also said 
this principle is for the purpose of this redress exercise only and does  not represent 
a change of our rules  in this area or the setting of new guidance.
I do not agree that the fact Ds lender accepted  Mr Ms proposals  in 2013 implies  that it was 
wrong to reject those  proposals three years earlier. As Ive said, the lender had no obligation 
to accept the proposals at all. I consider the lenders  actions towards  D from 2010 onwards  
amount to legitimate exercise of its commercial discretion, and I see nothing  to suggest that 
it acted in bad faith.
Overall, I see no grounds on which I could fairly uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN80025424my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about NRAM Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8002542