K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy with the contents  limit on their home policy  with UIA (Insurance) 
Limited and with the premiums they had to pay over a number of years.
background
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs F made  a claim on their policy for damaged contents following a fire 
at their home. However  their policy had a limit of £17,223 which wasnt  enough to cover  their 
claim. As Mr and Mrs F were longstanding customers  UIA agreed to increase the policy limit 
to £25,000 which it paid to Mr and Mrs F by way of settlement. Mr and Mrs F say they were 
over £10,000 short  and the settlement didnt  include  any payment for removal and disposal  
of the damaged contents which they had to dispose  of themselves as it would  have cost 
them £15,000 if they had used UIAs contractor. They  thought UIA should  have  told them  
that they were  underinsured especially  as they had made two previous claims when the limit 
wasn't questioned.  They  also said theyd found  a policy online  with a £75,000 limit which  
would have cost them less than they were paying  for their current  policy,
UIA said that on renewal  the policy limits are set out and increased each year in line with the 
Retail Price Index (RPI). And that it was Mr and Mrs Fs responsibility  to check that the policy  
was suitable. It does not advise customers about the suitability of their policies. For the 
previous claims these were for small amounts so no loss adjuster was involved and they 
were paid out on receipt of the information.  It further  explained that its policy  was different to 
the one Mr and Mrs F had found  online, that had a discount for new customers  and had 
different terms.
On referral to this service  our investigator  didnt  uphold  the complaint. She thought that UIA 
had acted reasonably by increasing the policy  limit. She further said the policy  found  online 
was a different  product and she didnt  think Mr and Mrs F had been treated unfairly.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree, they pointed out that when you listen to the information
given when you are waiting to be connected UIA clearly states  that for all customers  it  will 
ensure they get the best deal it can offer. They said that fundamentally the policy theyd 
found online was the same as the one theyve got. They also pointed  out that when they 
received their renewal  in August  2018, the policy limit hadnt been  increased.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
policy limit
Mr and Mrs F clearly  didnt have sufficient cover for all their contents. As theyve been  told, 
UIA sells its policies on a non-advised basis, that is it doesnt  advise  on whether the policy  is 
suitable for their needs. Its duty is to make sure the customer is given enough information 
that is clear,  fair and not misleading so that they can make  an informed choice about 
whether the policy  is right for them. For home policies this would mean giving information 
about policy limits and how to calculate  what they need, but the customer wont be advised 
about whether  the limit is suitable. 
Ref: DRN87642322This policy was first sold to Mr and Mrs F in 1998.  Theres no information  about what they 
said at the time or how they chose the limit for their contents. The records  going back  to 
2004 show that the limit then was £13,373. This was increased in line with the RPI for 
consumer durables.  In some years  the index went down or didnt increase. From 2010 to 
2015 the limit increased up to £17,223.  It didnt then increase up to the 2018 renewal.  Im not 
sure why, as the RPI did increase during those years. Nevertheless Mr and Mrs F were  
allowed a limit of £25,000  for their claim in 2018  which would be considerably more than if 
the limit had just increased in line with the RPI.
Each year Mr and Mrs F were sent renewal documents.  I understand that they just allowed 
the direct  debit to go out without querying  it. But the documents all set out the policy limits 
and the wording is, in my view, sufficiently clear. It was up to Mr and Mrs F to check  that the 
policy continued to be suitable for their needs. As the policy (like most ordinary home  
policies) was sold non-advised there  is no independent check of policy limits. Also,  when 
they made the previous  claims, these were  minor  so needed no review  of the policy  limits.
I realise that this does  mean that Mr and Mrs F werent paid enough  for their claim. But I 
think that UIAs action  in agreeing an increase in the policy limit was reasonable. As theyve 
found out since, UIA could have reduced  the claim as they were  substantially underinsured. 
But it chose  not to do this and I think that was fair.
Taking Mr and Mrs Fs point about the 2018 renewal  not increasing  the policy limit, UIA did 
say to them in its final response letter I would recommend you contact us to discuss  your 
current policy and whether you should either increase the sum insured or discuss the 
possibility of switching  to an alternative  product, similar to that which you have become 
aware via our website  . So it wouldnt be for UIA to unilaterally increase the contents limit  
it really is up to Mr and Mrs F to decide what they want  for their policy limit and/or whether  
they want to purchase  a different policy.
cost of the policy
With regard to the price  this service is concerned to see that customers arent  treated  
unfairly because  they havent engaged  in the renewal process. This means that if they have 
an old policy  that continues from year to year, but may have been superseded by better 
products online,  that the customers  arent being  charged excessive  premiums.  We have 
obtained information about  the pricing of the policy from UIA. Mr and Mrs F had a couple of 
claims in 2008 and it looks like the price  went  up because of that from £113.85 in 2009 to 
£134.98 in 2010. Its not unfair to increase  the price of a policy because of a claim.
The price  increased  from then until 2018 when  it was £145.83. I dont think  excessive price 
increases were made to the policy  and I dont think Mr and Mrs F were treated unfairly 
compared to other  customers. The policy theyve found online doesnt  include cover for 
unspecified items, which their present policy does, and it includes an introductory discount. 
Such discounts are usually quite substantial and would be removed in subsequent years. 
Ive noted what  Mr and Mrs F say about  the information given out when they ring UIA. But I 
would reiterate that these policies are sold non-advised and policyholders have to contact 
UIA if they want to discuss  policy options. 
So Im not persuaded that UIA had a similar policy available for a cheaper premium. 
Nevertheless I would urge Mr and Mrs F to ensure that they do have suitable cover  for their 
home rather than just rely on their current policy renewing.
Ref: DRN87642323my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2020
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8764232