K821x#15complaint
Miss J has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  handling of a claim 
on her motor insurance policy.
In pursuing this complaint Miss Js occasionally been helped by her dad. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to her dads comments as being  Miss Js.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
Shortly after Miss J put fuel in her car it suffered a severe engine  failure.  A mechanic  
diagnosed that the fuel was contaminated, causing the engine  failure. The mechanic said the 
car would require a new engine at a cost of £4,500.
Miss J initially contacted her broker to see if her policy covered the issue.  The broker 
transferred the call to Advantage.  Miss J says that Advantage told her that the situation  
wasn't covered  by the policy. Advantage says it has no record of ever receiving Miss Js call.
Miss J decided  to buy a new car on finance and the seller accepted her own car as part 
exchange, valuing it at £1,000. She later contacted Advantage again.  At that time Advantage 
said that it would have paid to repair Miss Js car. But, as she had already exchanged it 
Advantage could  no longer do that. So it said it would  make a cash-in-lieu payment 
equivalent to the cost for repairs, less Miss Js excess  of £350 and less the £1,000 she'd 
received for trading  the car in. It also acknowledged  that it took too long to deal with the 
matter and some of its service could  have been  better; so it paid her £150 compensation to 
address the impact of that.
Miss J wasn't happy with Advantages response  and brought her complaint to us. I issued a 
provisional decision on 12 January 2021.  For ease Ive copied my provisional findings  below,  
I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
did Advantage incorrectly tell Miss J that her policy  didn't cover the claim?
Miss J believes that because of Advantages incorrect advice that her policy  didn't cover  her 
claim shes now significantly out of pocket. Miss Js shown us her mobile phone  bill which  
shows that she called her broker in a call lasting around six minutes.  I've listened to that call 
which finishes, after roughly three  minutes,  with the broker telling her that it will put her 
through to the claims handlers (Advantage).  According to the phone bill the call would have 
lasted a further three minutes or so.
But Advantage has no record whatsoever  of ever receiving that call. I've seen that its done 
an extensive search for it. It has no record of a call from Miss Js telephone number on the 
day in question. So it searched  for call recordings using  the brokers numbers but none  of 
those calls were from Miss J. It also searched for withheld numbers and any calls from a 
landline or business number. But none  of those calls were from Miss J. So it doesn't appear 
that the call transferred from the broker was ever put through  to Advantage or if it was it 
Ref: DRN85719532doesn't look like it was answered  within  the remaining three minutes  of the call, as - if it had 
been - it's more  than likely Advantage would have a recording of it. 
Advantage has also said that its process, when there is a question of whether or not a claim 
is covered, is to log the call on its system before passing it for validation. In other words it 
would have a record of the claim and would make a decision about  whether or not the claim 
was covered, it wouldn't simply dismiss it over the phone. But it has no record  of doing that 
either. I understand  that Miss J is certain Advantage told her that she wasn't covered for the 
claim. But in the absence  of other  evidence  that Advantage  actually received the call and 
spoke with her, I don't  think it would be fair to conclude that it did give her incorrect  advice 
following her call with the broker. So I don't  think Advantage needs  to cover any additional 
costs Miss J might have incurred as a result.
did Advantage settle the claim fairly?
Advantage said that it would have accepted Miss Js claim and had it done so, before she 
traded in her car, then it would have repaired it. Miss J thinks  that her car was beyond 
economical repair. But I've seen that the estimated  repair costs were  below  the cars market  
value and Advantage has said that it would have repaired  the car. Thats a decision its 
entitled to reach under  the terms of Miss Js policy. But, because  the car had been sold, 
Advantage said it would pay Miss J a cash-in-lieu settlement based on the estimated cost of 
repairs, less Miss Js excess. I think that decision was reasonable.
But Advantage also deducted the £1,000 part exchange  sum the car dealer had paid Miss J 
for trading in her car. I don't think that deduction is justified. Had Advantage been in a 
position to repair the car then its safe to assume it would have paid a garage in the region of 
£4,500 to repair it. Miss J would have had to pay her £350 excess, so the total cost to 
Advantage would  have  been (4,500  350) £4,150.  So I think that should be the amount it 
settles Miss Js claim for.
Advantage has suggested that if it doesn't deduct  the £1,000 Miss J will be in a better 
position than she otherwise would  have been. But I don't  think  that's right.  Had Advantage 
chosen to treat the car as a total loss, then it would  have  paid Miss J the market value of the 
car. And in those  circumstances it would have been reasonable for Advantage to deduct the 
£1,000 from its settlement, otherwise  Miss J would have received the cars market  value plus 
the £1,000. But Advantage didn't treat the car as a total loss, it said it was repairable.  And, if 
it had repaired the car, at a cost to it of £4,150,  it wouldn't have received any of the money 
back if Miss J had later decided to sell it. So I don't think  its fair for Advantage to deduct  the 
cars trade-in  value from its cash-in-lieu settlement, which is equivalent  to the cost of repairs.  
It follows that I think Advantage  should pay Miss J the £1,000 it had previously  deducted 
from its settlement. It should  add simple interest to that sum as set out below.
Miss J accepted my provisional decision; Advantage  didn't reply.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Miss J nor Advantage objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it. 
Ref: DRN85719533my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay Miss J the £1,000  it had previously  deducted  from its claim 
settlement. It should add simple interest to that sum at a rate of 8% a year,  from the date it 
received Miss Js claim to the date it makes  payment to her1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Advantage  considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss J how much its taken off. It should  also give Miss J a certificate showing 
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8571953