K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  Amtrust Europe Limited, it provides the building 
warranty for a flat they own,  and which its been  seeking to repair for more than two years. 
background 
Mr and Mrs W own a flat which their family member lived in. The building the flat is in was 
converted into flats,  it wasnt originally  built for that purpose. In 2017 damage was noted to 
the building  and it was ultimately decided that Mr and Mrs Ws tenant needed to move  out to 
allow stabilisation works to be done  (in order to resolve a defect covered by the warranty).  
Amtrust initially  declined  a claim from Mr and Mrs W for accommodation costs,  and that 
issue was considered previously by this service, with a decision being  issue  by my 
ombudsman colleague  in July 2018.
As work to repair the property continued  Mr and Mrs W told Amtrust that they were 
experiencing other financial  losses,  as well as emotional upset. They said theyd had to pay 
ground rent and management fees for the flat when no-one could  benefit  from it by using it. 
They asked Amtrust to pay mileage costs  theyd incurred  for attending  meetings.  
Mr and Mrs W also said that there were costs associated with their daughter moving  home 
as the accommodation shed been staying in when  Amtrust initially declined their claim for 
costs had been unbearable for her.
Amtrust told Mr and Mrs W that the costs they were claiming for werent covered by the 
building warranty. Mr and Mrs W felt Amtrust had missed the point  it was because the 
claim and repairs had taken so long that they felt Amtrust should  reimburse  these costs.
When Mr and Mrs W complained to us they asked  that Amtrust be required to reimburse 
their ground rent and management fees.  Our investigator noted there was no cover under 
the policy for this and, initially, she felt there  were  no unreasonable  or avoidable delays 
caused by Amtrust. However, upon review,  whilst  she maintained  the view that the claim had 
been complex, she accepted that Amtrust could have handled it quicker.  Amtrust 
acknowledged there had been delays and offered £250 compensation.
Our investigator put the offer to Mr and Mrs W. She explained that she still didnt think it had 
to reimburse any cost Mr and Mrs W had incurred. She also explained that as wed 
previously considered a complaint about alternative  accommodation costs,  we wouldnt 
re-visit that. 
Mr and Mrs W felt that the suggested  compensation was too low  working out at only a few 
pounds each a week, depending over what period the delay was said to be covering. Mr W 
went on to say that he felt we should look at why Amtrust  had made certain decisions about 
the repairs along the way which  in turn had caused  delays. He said that, 30 months on, the 
design had still to be clarified and repairs hadnt  yet, as of February  this year,  commenced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I think  Mr and Mrs W now understand, I cant look at anything  that flows  from Amtrusts 
initial decision to decline their claim for accommodation costs.  Their complaint about that 
Ref: DRN81202042decline, and what  this service felt Amtrust  had to do as a result  of it, was covered  in my 
colleagues decision. Nor can I look at anything which happened after Amtrusts  final 
response of February  2019 which considered Mr and Mrs Ws recent complaint about extra 
costs theyd incurred  and emotional  upset  theyd suffered due to the on-going repairs. So 
whilst I know its frustrating that the repair has continued, I cant take that upset into account. 
But I accept that even whilst this was a complex repair,  Mr and Mrs W could never have 
reasonably expected it to continue even up to February  2019.  Whether  theyd have 
continued letting  the flat to their family member if the repairs  had completed sooner, or used 
it for their own enjoyment they havent been  able to use it in whatever way they see fit as it is 
still being repaired. I accept there is some upset and frustration associated  with that. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W live a good distance  from the flat, that they havent been able to 
use it and that this has gone  on over an extended  period   far beyond that they could 
reasonably have expected to follow naturally from the damage and resultant claim. Theyve 
also seen their family member uprooted. They didnt expect to, in February 2019, still have 
been dealing  with this as a major  part of their lives. Whilst they always had costs to pay 
in respect of owning the flat, such as ground  rent, I can understand that its frustrating to 
have the outlay keep occurring whilst seeing  nothing for the money spent. Amtrust, in my 
view, should fairly and reasonably pay £250 compensation to make  up for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Whilst I know Mr and Mrs W feel that amount is insufficient, it is an amount which I consider 
to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, when taking into account our approach  to 
such awards and awards weve made in similar  circumstances. In making the award I also 
have to filter out the upset  that would always have occurred and, as I acknowledge above, 
this was always a complex situation  that was going to take time to resolve.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W would like to know why Amtrust  made  certain decision and 
took certain action.  However, because Im satisfied delays were caused  I dont think  its 
necessary for me to do that here.
On the issue of outgoings Im not going  to make Amtrust  reimburse any costs. The ground 
rent and management fees that Mr and Mrs W have mentioned are, I think, the type of costs 
that flow naturally from owning the flat. Regardless  of any delay in the claim repairs  theyd 
need to be paid. And whilst I note they felt they could reasonably ask Amtrust  to cover these 
costs now there was no active claim for alternative  accommodation, the two are not 
interchangeable. Whilst  I see that Mr and Mrs W felt the accommodation payments 
somehow off-set these costs they were incurring, Im not sure how that is likely to be the 
case and Mr and Mrs W accept there is no right to claim ground rent and fees for their 
property under the policy. So, as there  is no direct  right to these costs  from the policy, I could 
only require Amtrust to reimburse  them if I felt its failures in handling  the claim had caused 
Mr and Mrs W to incur them. Ive seen nothing that makes me think that is most likely the 
case here. 
Overall, I accept  that this has been a frustrating time for Mr and Mrs W, one which they 
would like to have been over and done with long ago. I know they feel Amtrust hasnt always  
dealt with them fairly and that if it had they wouldnt  feel like theyd suffered emotionally or 
financially. Whilst Im not persuaded its fair to say Amtrusts actions caused them  to suffer  
costs they wouldnt  otherwise  have had to meet, I think it could have dealt with things better, 
and if it had their upset would have been avoided. For the distress and inconvenience  Im 
satisfied Amtrusts failures caused Im satisfied  that it should  pay £250  compensation.  
Ref: DRN81202043my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Amtrust  Europe Limited to pay Mr and Mrs W £250  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8120204