K820x#14complaint
Mr A doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use the payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation offers its made to him to reduce the debt which 
remained unpaid when  his protected trust deed  came to an end.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 6 November 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought it 
was fair for RBS to use Mr As PPI compensation to reduce the amount he owed and didnt 
repay when  his trust deed came  to an end.
RBS said it had nothing  further to add to my provisional decision.
Mr A said that it had been brought to his attention that, since  my provisional decision was 
issued, RBS had lost a recent court case it had appealed which  was relevant to his 
complaint. And in the light of this legal decision he asked whether  I would  be changing the 
outcome of his complaint in my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I mentioned that there were some court cases about to whom PPI 
compensation should be paid when a consumer has been  discharged from a protected  
trust deed.  One of the court cases,  Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc v Donnelly (2019) CSIH 56, 
the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a debt from 
which they were discharged when  the trust deed came to an end. But I explained  that this 
was appealed by RBS  and that outcome might  change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the Court of 
Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed the legal position  that RBS 
couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid after the trust 
ended. The court said when the trust deed  ended  the debtor  was discharged from her debts, 
so there  was no longer any debt owing from her to the bank which  could be subject  to set-
off.
At this moment, it isnt known whether RBS intend  to appeal the decision further to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
However, as explained  in my provisional  decision,  I have considered the relevant law. And 
when initially  providing my provisional  decision, I did so when the law had already found in 
that consumers  favour.  RBS losing the appeal confirms the legal position within Scots  law 
about what happens when a consumer  is discharged from their trust deed (although Im 
mindful that, as Ive said above, RBS may be appealing this case further to the Supreme 
Court). But, as I also explained in my provisional decision, whilst I take into account the 
relevant law, Im not bound to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching  test of whats  fair 
Ref: DRN84379702and reasonable  in the particular circumstances of Mr As complaint, as required of me 
through FSMA Section 228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, and in the absence of any other comments on my provisional  decision by 
either Mr A or RBS, I remain of the opinion that it would be unfair for me to require RBS to 
pay PPI compensation  directly to Mr A when  - because of his discharge from the trust deed  
 he now wont ever have  to repay the monies  borrowed  from RBS and not already repaid by 
him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think Its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr As compensation for the mis-sold  PPI to reduce 
the amount he owed  and didnt repay when his trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84379703copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr A doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use the payment protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  offers  its made to him to reduce the debt which remained unpaid when 
his protected trust deed  came to an end.
background
RBS sold Mr A a PPI policy in 2004  to protect the repayments on a loan he was taking out with it. This 
loan was repaid early when Mr A took out a further  loan later that year.  Once again, Mr A was sold a 
PPI policy  to protect the repayments on his new loan.
Mr A complained to RBS that he had been  mis-sold these PPI policies.  RBS upheld  his complaint. It 
offered to refund  the PPI premiums and the extra interest hed been charged as a result of these  mis-
sales, together with simple interest to compensate him for the time hed been out of pocket. The total 
amount offered was £10,456.65, which Mr A accepted.
In 2006, Mr A had granted a trust deed  - which  became  a protected trust deed - for his creditors. This 
is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy (called  sequestration there). It is a legally-binding 
agreement between a consumer and their creditors, which is administered  by a trustee. RBS says 
that, when this protected trust deed came to an end in 2012, the total amount of debt which  it had 
been unable to recover was £20,391.07. 
Following acceptance by Mr A of the compensation offers  made  to him for the mis-sale  of his PPI 
policies, RBS says it used  these  in partial  payment  of the outstanding amount it hadnt fully recovered  
when Mr As protected trust deed ended in 2012. But Mr A doesnt think that the compensation  hes 
been offered  should be used in this way. He thinks that, as his protected trust deed had ended  before 
RBS made these offers, he didnt  still owe it any money. And so he thinks these PPI compensation  
offers should be paid directly  to him.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Mr As complaint  should be upheld.  She thought that it was fair in 
these circumstances  for RBS to use the compensation offer partially to offset  the debt to it which  was 
still unpaid when the protected  trust deed was ended. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the case  has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Im required  by DISP 3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN84379704As RBS has upheld Mr As PPI mis-sale complaints,  in this provisional  decision Ive just looked at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So what  I need to decide  is whether  
its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr As PPI compensation offers  to reduce  the much higher 
amount of debt which he wasnt required  to repay to it after his protected trust deed ended.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scots law. In recent years thereve been 
a number of cases looking  at what happens  to PPI compensation after a trust deed has come to an 
end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
Mr As complaint. And I simply dont think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr As PPI compensation  
directly to him when he borrowed a great deal more money from RBS which wont ever now be 
repaid. The fact that Mr As protected trust deed had come  to an end before this offer of PPI 
compensation was made doesnt,  in my opinion, make  a difference  to what  is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances here. I dont think anyone would  think it fair to require  RBS to repay  the PPI 
compensation directly  to Mr A when  he doesnt now need to pay back  to RBS a much bigger amount 
which he borrowed. And as the PPI policies in question were paid for by single premiums added to his 
loans, for RBS to do so would, in effect, mean that it was refunding him some money that it had never 
actually received  from him in the first place.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair that RBS used the PPI compensation  it offered  to 
Mr A to reduce the debt, which wont now ever be repaid to RBS following  the closure of his protected 
trust deed.
Ive also considered whether  Mr As complaint should be dismissed by this service without 
considering its merits. This is on the basis that the PPI compensation  offers RBS made to him were  in 
full and final settlement. And it appears that Mr A signed to accept these offers in June 2016.
But I think that its most likely that Mr As acceptance of these offers  would have been on the basis 
that he thought he was entitled to have this compensation paid directly to him, because his former 
debt had been  extinguished when the trust deed was completed. Given the uncertainty  about  the 
legal position regarding pre-existing debts after a trust deed  had ended, I dont think RBSs offers  
made its position sufficiently clear. And so I dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss the case  on 
that basis.
Ref: DRN84379705Finally, Ive thought carefully about the points  which Mr A has made in explaining why he doesnt 
agree with the adjudicators view. But having done so, these havent changed my mind. I still dont 
currently think  that his complaint should be upheld.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not presently intending  to uphold Mr As complaint. Im minded to 
decide that it was fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr As compensation  for the PPI 
policies it mis-sold  to him to reduce the amount of debt he hadnt repaid when his trust deed came  to 
an end. So, based on what  Ive seen  so far, I dont plan to make  a further award.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8437970