K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Arnold Clark Automobiles  Limited (Arnold Clark) failed to take a correct  
copy of his ID when  he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement. Then carried  out a second  
credit check  without his consent  impacting on his ability to get credit. He would like 
compensation in the region of £5,000.
.
background
Mr A says in October 2018 he took delivery  of a car from Arnold Clark after providing 
relevant information  for Arnold Clark to source  a finance agreement. This included 
Arnold Clark carrying out, with his agreement, a credit check.
He says the finance company didnt  release  the funds for the finance  agreement as the copy 
Arnold Clark took of Mr As driving  licence wasnt good enough.
Mr A says Arnold Clark said the quality  of the copy of the licence was Mr As responsibility. 
But Mr A says a staff member copied it. 
He says Arnold  Clark  ran a second  credit check without his consent. Then lied that it had 
done this.
He says the second credit check gave him problems in getting other credit.  And the whole 
matter has caused  him a degree of stress that he feels it is fair he is compensated for.
Arnold Clark said it wasnt able to contact Mr A by email  or phone when it became aware 
there was an issue with the finance  provider.  It said it ran a second credit check in an 
attempt to resolve this. But accepted it didnt have Mr As consent to do so. It said it has 
since removed the credit check from Mr As credit  file.
Arnold Clark added that it tried for four months to come to an amicable solution with Mr A 
including offering a reduction on the car of £3,000. When it was unable  to resolve the matter 
it uplifted the car.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found Arnold Clark had made mistakes but 
addressed these fairly. It removed the reference  to the second credit check on Mr As credit 
file. And acted reasonably in an attempt to resolve  the matter  by reducing the cost of the car 
by £3,000. He didnt  find it unreasonable for Arnold Clark to recover  the car when Mr A didnt 
make the payment he agreed to make.
Arnold Clark accepted this view but Mr A didnt.  He didnt believe Arnold Clark had dealt  
reasonably with his complaint. He said it lied about carrying out a second credit check and 
illegally clamped  another car when it came  to repossess his car.
Mr A accepted he had had use of the car but didnt feel that this compensated him for the 
stress and for Arnold  Clarks misconduct. He says Arnold Clark sold his car for the same 
amount he agreed  to. He doesnt feel its fair that Arnold Clark hasnt suffered any financial 
loss.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He explained our 
service assess  if the response from the business to a complaint is fair but we dont look  to 
punish a business. He accepted things had gone wrong but felt that Arnold Clark had made 
Ref: DRN87214602an offer that was reasonable. This included not looking to recover any money for the time 
Mr A had use of the car
Mr A didnt accept this further  view. He said he didnt feel having use of the car for a couple  
of months outweighed  what  he experienced. He didnt  feel it was sufficient for Arnold Clark 
to reduce a car by a small amount  having broken the law and used intimidatory tactics.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A feels  strongly about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  
the same  conclusion as our investigator.
Its unfortunate that when Arnold Clark took a copy of Mr As driving licence the copy  wasnt  
of sufficient quality.  As a result the finance provider withheld the finance for the vehicle.
That was clearly a mistake on Arnold Clarks part. Once it became aware  of this it made 
numerous attempts  to contact Mr A with the email  and telephone details it had. I havent  
seen any evidence of this but have  no reason  to disbelieve  this. Since Mr A had the car but 
no finance agreement  was in place to pay for it I cant  see that Arnold Clark  would have 
done anything  else but try to contact Mr A to resolve this.
As Mr A has told us that he changed  his mobile  phone number and blocked his emails  its not 
surprising that Arnold Clark couldnt contact  him.
In an attempt to resolve  matters Arnold Clark then carried out a second credit check  on 
21 November 2018. It has accepted  that it didnt have Mr As authority to do this. And has 
since removed all reference to this from Mr As credit file. I think  that was reasonable.
As the second  credit check failed. And as Arnold Clark couldnt contact Mr A I dont think  it 
was unreasonable, at that point, for it to attempt to recover the vehicle. I appreciate  Mr A 
says this was done  in an intimidatory way. Its difficult for me to comment on that given  there 
is no independent evidence to support what happened. 
Ive then seen  correspondence from Arnold Clark and I think it acted reasonably  to try to 
resolve the matter.  It offered to reduced  the cost of the car by £3,000 if Mr A made  a 
payment of £7,000 and it if could source  finance for the remaining £5,408
It seems  Mr A then negotiated a slightly different option whereby he would pay £9,000 with 
the remaining  £3,408 on finance. Arnold Clark accepted this suggestion.
Unfortunately as Mr A didnt make the relevant  £9,000  payment  by the deadline  set Arnold 
Clark recovered the car. I dont think it was unreasonable to do so. It set a deadline for Mr A 
to make the payment which Mr A didnt  meet.  As the car was recovered around the middle of 
February 2019 this meant that Mr A had had the car for around  four months.
Mr A has asked  for compensation firstly  for the effect on his credit file. He says as a result of 
the second credit check he was unable to get credit.  He has given us some emails  to show a 
loan was agreed and then declined.  Unfortunately  no reason was given for that in the emails  
he sent us.
Ref: DRN87214603Lenders look at a variety  of factors when considering loans. So there  might  be any number 
of reasons as to why Mr As initially successful loan application was then declined. But 
without specific evidence  that the only reason the loan was declined was due to the second 
credit check  that Arnold: Clark carried out I cant reasonably consider asking Arnold Clark to 
compensate Mr A.
Secondly Mr A has mentioned the stress of the situation. I can appreciate if the collection 
agent arrived unannounced to collect Mr As car that would have caused  a degree of stress.  
I am not sure when  the finance repayments  were  due to start had the finance gone though 
as first planned. Its possible that a payment might have been  due before the collection 
agent arrived in which case Mr A might have  noticed  a payment hadnt been made. And if so 
could have contacted Arnold Clark himself.
As I understand it Mr A has had use of the car for four months travelling  for around 4,000 
miles without  making any payments. The monthly  payments  were  £320.87 so Mr A has 
saved over £1200 with  free use of the car. So I dont think I can reasonably  expect Arnold 
Clark to pay compensation in addition to this.
Thirdly Mr A has  said as the car has been  put up for sale at the same price  as when he 
took out his agreement he doesnt feel its fair that Arnold Clark hasnt suffered any financial 
loss. 
As our investigator has explained its not our role to punish business  we look at what  is a 
fair resolution and in this case I think Arnold Clark has acted more  than reasonably.  So I 
dont feel there are any grounds for me to say that Arnold Clark should pay compensation in 
the region of £5,000  as Mr A would like. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8721460