K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement  with 
LeasePlan UK Limited ended.
background 
Mr S is unhappy about end of contract charges for damage which exceeds fair wear  and 
tear. Hes also unhappy about  charges for top up road tax and a cancellation fee. The 
charges comprise:
OS wing scratch to primer £93
OS door scratch to primer £93
OS QTR panel scratch to primer £93
Tailgate scratch  to primer £93
Rear bumper scratch to primer £150
NSR door scratch to primer £143
NSF door scratch to primer
NSF seat stained
Cancellation  fee £130
Road tax top up £100
During the course of the investigation by this service, LeasePlan reconsidered the charges 
relating to the NRS door,  tailgate  and NSF seat and offered to waive charges totalling £309. 
It also said the top up road tax had been charged  for 12 months in error and that only 2 
months was due. It said it would arrange  for a credit for 10 months worth to be refunded to 
Mr S.
Our investigator looked at the remaining charges and thought  that these were fair because 
the damage went beyond fair wear and tear. In relation to the charge for the cancelled  
inspection, the investigator felt that Mr S had been  given the opportunity to cancel the 
inspection but hadnt done  so in time.
Mr S didnt agree. He felt that the overall  charges  were excessive and that they exceeded 
the actual cost of repairs. He said the car had been sent straight  to auction and that the 
charges exceeded  any diminution  in value of the car as a result of the damage.  In relation to 
the cancellation fee, Mr S said he could provide by reference to mobile call records  that he 
cancelled the inspection within the time limit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
The terms and conditions  of the agreement say that Mr S must return  the car in good  
condition and that any damage which exceeds  fair wear and tear is the customers  
responsibility.
Ref: DRN88346362Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the pictures. The report identifies damage to 
several areas which LeasePlan says goes  beyond fair wear and tear and is therefore  
chargeable.
Ive considered the damage and Im satisfied that most of it goes beyond fair wear  and tear 
in accordance with the guidelines. However,  I think the charges for the NSR door should be 
removed because the scratches  dont exceed 10cm  and could be polished out. I also think  
the scratches on the tailgate could be polished out. The stained upholstery  could  be 
removed by general cleaning so I think this charge should  be waived.
In relation to the charge  for road tax, LeasePlan has said that this should only have been 
charged for two months. Therefore, a credit  representing 10 months  worth  of road tax 
should be made to Mr Ss account.
Ive thought about the charge for the cancelled inspection. The terms and conditions  say that 
a charge can be made if the car isnt made available for inspection at the time and place 
agreed. LeasePlan has said that Mr S cancelled the inspection  at short  notice the day 
before, which  wasnt enough notice to process the cancellation and re-route the inspection 
agent.
Mr S has said that he cancelled within the time limit i.e. before 3pm the day before. Hes also 
said he can prove this by reference  to mobile  phone  records. This service  asked Mr S to 
provide his phone records  but he hasnt done so. In the circumstances, I cant  be certain that 
he called  to cancel  the inspection within the time limit.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about  the cost of repairs. I dont  have details of 
what the car sold for at auction and/or what the car might have  been  worth if it didnt have 
the damage identified in the report. So Im not in a position to comment  on whether the 
damage charges  exceed any diminution  in value of the car. But as a general principle, Im 
satisfied that LeasePlan is entitled to charge  for damage which  exceeds fair wear and tear 
and I havent seen any evidence to suggest  that the charges are unreasonable.
Taking into account all of the available information,  and for the reasons Ive given, Im 
partially upholding the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  the complaint. LeasePlan UK Limited must:
Waive the charges  totalling £309  in relation to NSR door,  tailgate  and upholstery
Refund 10 months worth of road tax (if this hasnt already been  credited)
For the avoidance of doubt, I think the rest of the charges are fair and Mr S should pay 
these.
Ref: DRN88346363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8834636