K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains he was pressurised by Instant  Cash Loans Limited (Money Shop) into 
pawning items of gold in order to repay  his payday  loans. He says the goods were later sold 
at below value  and without him being  given notice  of the intended sale. He wants  
compensation.
background
Mr H tells us that he pawned items of gold jewellery in July 2011. He says he was 
pressurised into this transaction by Money  Shops sales person in order to repay some 
outstanding payday loans.  He states  the gold was worth £2,500.  Later he says the jewellery  
was sold for well below this value. And that he wasnt told that this sale would happen.
Money Shop told us that Mr H had pawned a necklace, a ring and a pair of earrings. It said 
that prior to pawning  goods the process  is explained to customers.  And that its entirely  a 
matter for the individual customer if they accept the amount which  is offered. It explained 
that gold rates vary on a daily basis. And that Mr H had agreed to pawn the items for a loan 
value of £1,200. It stated  that the pledge was the subject  of a secured loan and that Mr Hs 
signed Fixed  Sum Loan Agreement  and Pawn  Receipt regulated by the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 states:
IF YOU DO NOT REDEEM THE ARTICLE(S) ON OR BEFORE  (EXPIRY  DATE) YOU MAY  
LOSE YOUR RIGHT TO REDEEM IT (THEM).
Money Shop explained that the loan shouldve been  repaid by 13 February  2012.  And when 
this didnt happen it said the items were sold. As the proceeds of sale (£1,113.32) didnt 
cover the loan, interest and selling costs (£2,413.27)  there  was no surplus to return to Mr H.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr H had 
been aware of the amount  of the loan that Money  Shop had been prepared to offer against 
the items  of jewellery. And that shed seen  a note from Money Shops file that in January 
2012 Mr H had said he wouldnt be coming back for his items. She didnt think Money Shop 
had made  any errors in relation to the pawn broking transaction  and so she wouldnt be 
asking it to do anything  further.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to see that Mr H has experienced financial difficulties over several years.  And thats 
never an easy situation to handle. Im also aware that hes made some complaints about 
various payday loans he was given.  But I need  to make clear that my decision relates solely  
to the issues arising from a pawn broking transaction that took place  in July 2011.  And that 
includes whether  Money  Shop acted fairly when it sold the items in 2015 after the loan 
against which the items were pawned wasnt repaid.
Ref: DRN82228092Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Im aware Mr H considers  he was pressurised into pawning these items in order  to repay 
some payday loans he had with Money Shop. But Ive seen no information  which  would lead 
me to this conclusion. And I havent  seen  anything that shows that on or around the date of 
the pawn agreement there were any such repayments. 
The information with which  Ive been  supplied indicates the pawn agreement is in the form of 
a fixed sum loan - in this case for £1,200  - which is repayable with interest after seven 
months. If the loan isnt repaid the pawnbroker is allowed to sell the items to try to recover  
the cost of the loan, interest and costs of selling. 
Mr H has said the value  of the pawned items was £2,500. But Ive seen nothing to confirm 
this. And as Money  Shop was only prepared to offer £1,200 against the items Mr H had the 
choice of whether  to accept this sum or not. Whilst it doesnt affect my decision I did look to 
see what the price of gold was in 2011  and 2015.  Bearing in mind  the price  fluctuates on a 
daily basis I saw that the highest price reached  in 2011 was just under 50 % more than that 
achieved in 2015. I mention this only to illustrate that when items such as gold jewellery  are 
pawned the value of goods  can vary significantly between the start of the agreement and the 
date when items may come to be sold. Money  Shop isnt responsible for these market 
variations.
The loan agreement  makes clear that pledged items can be sold if the loan isnt repaid. And 
the contact notes show that Mr H was aware  of the details as hes indicated  he wasnt  going 
back to the shop to reclaim them.
When the goods were  sold Ive seen that Mr H was sent the notice of sale which  set out the 
proceeds obtained together with the outstanding sums due from the agreement and the cost 
of sale. The letter also indicated that he wouldnt be pursued for the shortfall. So I cant say 
hes sustained any financial loss as a result of the sale.
In summary,  I find that Mr H knew the terms of the loan and that it was his choice to enter 
the finance agreement for that amount. He knew, or ought reasonably  to have known,  that if 
he didnt repay the loan the pledged  items of jewellery would  be sold.  It would not be fair and 
reasonable to say that Money Shop hadnt  acted fairly in relation to this pawn broking 
agreement. Accordingly  Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8222809