K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of the renewal of his motor 
insurance policy. 
background
In July 2018, Mr M was stopped by police  and subsequently fined and had six points put on 
his license as a result of having no motor insurance in place. 
Aviva said it provided Mr M with renewal documents on 27 April 2018  and a reminder email 
on 23 May 2018. The policy lapsed on 28 May 2018  and Aviva  say they sent confirmation  of 
this on 29 May 2018. Mr M said he didnt  receive any correspondence  from Aviva in relation  
to this policy.
Mr M said Aviva also incorrectly  advised  the Police that he wouldve also received a 
cancellation pack. However,  it later confirmed this had been advised in error as a 
cancellation pack is only sent when a policy is cancelled. It said Mr Ms policy  wasnt  
cancelled, it had lapsed. 
Mr M said he has other policies in place with Aviva and has said he contacted it by 
telephone to renew a specific policy. However,  Mr M said he was left thinking this other 
policy had also renewed and maintains he had received no correspondence the policy was 
due to renew. 
Mr M maintains he didnt receive  correspondence from Aviva about  the renewal of this 
policy, and therefore  feels it should  issue him with a letter  of indemnity. Mr M also wants  
Aviva to provide  an audit  trail to show  what  happened to the correspondence so he can 
prevent this from happening again. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He explained that on balance he felt it was 
more likely than not the correspondence was sent in April and May 2018. Mr M argued that 
Aviva should  be required  to show correspondence  was sent and received  not just system 
generated. 
Our investigator maintained that its a customers responsibility to make  sure theyre fully 
insured, and didnt  think  Aviva  needed  to do anything here.  Mr M was provided  with the 
screenshots Aviva sent our investigator. Mr M says these show a different email that shows 
as being generated, but Mr M said he didnt  receive  this either.  
As Mr M disagreed with our investigators view the case has been passed  to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can sympathise with Mr Ms situation.  Hes an experienced driver and I understand being  
stopped by the police for having no insurance wouldve been a cause  of concern. 
In deciding Mr Ms complaint its a relevant  consideration as to whether  Avivas 
communication with Mr M was clear, fair and not misleading. And also that he was given 
sufficient information  upon which to base  his decision. When  renewing  the policy its 
Ref: DRN86367632important for me to consider whether  Aviva  took reasonable steps to notify Mr M, using the 
correct contact details,  that his policy  was due to renew. And, while  I appreciate this will 
disappoint Mr M, Im satisfied Aviva  did that here. 
Mr M successfully renewed his insurance with Aviva in May 2017,  paying the annual 
premium. Aviva has provided us with a copy of Mr Ms 2018 renewal documentation dated  
27 April 2018. They say the renewal documents were posted to Mr M and Ive seen  that the 
letter shows  Mr Ms correct postal address. Having looked at the documentation Im satisfied 
it clearly explained  what Mr M needed to do to ensure he had continuing  insurance  cover.
Aviva has also provided screenshots showing an email was generated on both 23 May 2018  
and 29 May 2018.  These screenshots show the activity  Aviva holds on file for Mr Ms policy.  
Having compared  the email address to the address we hold on file for Mr M, Im satisfied 
Aviva held the correct  address for Mr M. 
Our investigator, with Avivas consent,  provided Mr M with a copy  of the screenshots  
referred to here. Mr M queried whether this screenshot  was taken from Avivas server 
archive and what type of encryption would generally  be applied  by the server. Our 
investigator explained the role of this service  is to resolve individual complaints and not to 
answer queries  about Avivas IT systems.
Mr M said Aviva provided the Police with incorrect information during the time he was pulled 
over. Aviva accepts incorrect  information  was provided about a cancellation pack  being sent. 
For clarity,  my understanding is Aviva informed  the Police that Mr M wouldve received a 
cancellation pack following his policy  being  cancelled. But Mr Ms policy  wasnt cancelled: it 
lapsed as he made  no contact in order to renew the policy  and no premium was paid.  So Mr 
M is right in saying he didnt receive  a cancellation  notice,  but Im not persuaded this 
incorrect information changed the outcome of the action the Police took. Mr M was stopped 
for not having  valid insurance in place,  and it wasnt relevant at the roadside whether this 
was because the policy lapsed  or was cancelled. 
In the circumstances of this case and taking all of the above  into account, Im persuaded its 
more likely than not that Aviva  sent renewal documentation to Mr M. This document  was 
sufficiently clear about what Mr M had to do if he wanted to renew his policy.  And Im 
satisfied this was followed by a reminder and then confirmation the policy  had lapsed.  So I 
wont be asking Aviva to do anything here. 
Our investigator rightly  explained to Mr M that this Service doesnt have the power to look 
into complaints about how Aviva  handled  his complaint. So I wont be commenting on this 
part of Mr Ms complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8636763