K821x#15complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way Bradford & Bingley Plc dealt  with her mortgage redemption.
background
In December 2018 Ms G had agreed  to sell her house and was therefore in the process of 
redeeming her mortgage with Bradford & Bingley.
On 7 December  2018, Ms G made  a card payment after cancelling  the direct debit which 
paid her mortgage. The direct debit was due to be paid on 10 December 2018.
The direct debit still tried to leave her account on 10 December 2018. The payment was 
unsuccessful and she incurred a late payment fee of £6.50. 
On 11 December, the redemption statement was generated. The redemption statement 
assumed that the direct  debit  had been paid and so generated a figure that was insufficient 
to pay off the mortgage. As a result  Ms G was pursued  for the shortfall.
Bradford & Bingley  tried to call Ms G on 12 and 13 December but were unable  to reach her.
On 14 December ,Ms G called it to complain  about the direct debit fee being charged.
A few days  later the property was sold. After the sale of the property  Bradford  & Bingley sent 
letters to the only address  it had on file for Ms G which was the property that had just been  
sold. Ms G is unhappy about  this and thinks it should have tried to contact her by email. 
At one point  Bradford & Bingley told her it couldnt  send letters and deeds to her solicitors. 
As a result Ms G says she delayed her travel  plans so she could receive these. In the end it 
turned out the letters and deeds  could be sent to the solicitors.
When Ms G tried to pay the shortfall she was quoted different  figures  which differed by a few 
pounds. This added to her feelings of being let down.
The mortgage wasnt redeemed  until March  and thereafter the deeds were returned.
When Ms G complained to Bradford & Bingley it offered a total of £100 compensation. It also 
refunded the cancelled  unpaid direct debit fee and confirmed that there  would be no adverse 
impact on her credit file. Originally it said the redemption statement was wrong.  Bradford & 
Bingley now say that the redemption statement was correct as it followed industry standards 
in assuming the direct debit had been  paid. Its systems wouldnt show  the direct debit had 
been rejected  until the day after. It did, however, increase its offer to £250.
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. She felt the compensation offered by 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  reflect the stress and inconvenience caused to Ms G and 
recommended it pay her £400.  She also said that  if Ms G had incurred charges as a result of 
paying the shortfall  then Bradford & Bingley  should reimburse  these. The investigator 
explained that due to some personal  circumstances,  the closure of Ms Gs mortgage account 
and selling of the property  was a significant time for her. Following the sale she was going 
remote travelling, so she wouldnt be contactable. So Ms G was particularly  upset when she 
found out in January that everything wasnt settled. Thinking shed settled her mortgage, Ms G 
wasnt prepared for the shortfall payment she ended up having to make in March.  Shed told 
the investigator she had to put off paying for things  shed planned to in order to settle it. 
Ref: DRN86086082Ms G accepted the investigators view. She said she didnt want  to pursue things regarding  
her overdraft charges.
The business has asked  for an ombudsmans decision. It says:
The direct debit  bounced because Ms G cancelled  it. It appreciates  it agent 
didnt explain  the implications to her.
The redemption statements that were sent were correct based on the 
information on the system at the time they were issued. It says this even though  
in its final response letter it said the statement was wrong.
The redemption statement took the direct  debit payment as being paid, which  
would be standard industry practise, but unfortunately it wasnt paid, it was not a 
system error.
It thinks its offer of £250 is fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many consumers only sell properties a few times in their lives. So a routine transaction  for a 
business can be very stressful and daunting  for a consumer. In this case Ms G thought that 
she could make a payment for the same amount as the amount due to be taken from her 
account by direct debit  and this would replace that direct debit payment. As Ms G now 
understands this requires  the timing to be right. 
The first problem Ms G encountered having  done this was that an unpaid direct  debit fee 
was charged.  Im pleased to see the business refunded this when Ms G called  it on 
14 December. I think this was a fair response  to the circumstances. On that call of 
14 December the business had a golden opportunity to prevent the problems which  would 
follow. It knew that the direct debit  payment  hadnt gone through. It also knew that the 
redemption statement didnt reflect this and that paying the sum set out on the redemption  
statement would result in a shortfall.  It didnt think this through for Ms G and I think in failing 
to point this out to her it let her down.
It subsequently made  errors  it has accepted - regarding whether or not it could send letters  
and deeds to her solicitors and the exact  amount due.
When a business  makes errors the impact  it has on each consumer is different. Often  the 
difference reflects other things going on in the consumers life at the point of the error. In this 
case the consumer  has explained very clearly that the sale of the property was meant to be 
a new beginning  for her after a very difficult time and that she was intending  to travel to 
remote areas. As a result of the shortfall the consumer  felt compelled to put off some of her 
plans and wasnt able to spend money  on somethings she had intended  to spend it on. For 
many consumers the compensation offered by the business would be a reasonable 
response to its errors. But I think the impact on Ms G was greater  than it would have been 
for most people given  her hopes  to move on and her immediate plans  following  the sale.  
Overall I think  the compensation recommended by the investigator is fair. I wish Ms G well 
on the next stage  of her life.
Ref: DRN86086083my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay Ms G £400.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8608608