K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about the end of lease charges Volkswagen  Financial Services  (UK) Limited  
(VWFS), trading  as Audi Finance, have asked him to pay.
background
I issued my provisional decision in April 2020. I explained why I was not planning to uphold  
Mr Es complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
Mr E took receipt of a new car in March 2016.  He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with VWFS. 
At the end of the hire period he arranged  to return the car to the dealership where  VWFS 
would arrange  for it to be collected and independently inspected. The finance  agreement 
allowed VWFS to charge  Mr E for any damage that was beyond  normal wear and tear and 
the inspector highlighted four areas in which he thought there was damage beyond  this 
standard. He said there were scratches to the rear bumper and front wing and some  chipped 
paint on the bonnet. He also identified some damage to a quarter panel  but VWFS agreed to 
waive this as they thought  the damage  was not well made out in the inspectors  
photographs.
Mr E complained to VWFS about the charges. He provided some  photographs he said were 
taken two days before he dropped the car off. He said the photographs showed no damage 
to the areas in question.  But VWFS  didnt agree to waive any further  charges so Mr E 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator agreed with Mr E. He noted that Mr Es pictures were taken only two days  
before handover but the car hadnt  been inspected until at least nine days  after handover.  
So, on balance, he thought it was more likely the damage had been  caused in those nine 
days than in the previous two. He therefore  suggested VWFS waive all of the charges they 
were asking Mr E to pay.
But VWFS didnt agree. They said Mr E was responsible for the quality of the car up until the 
point the inspection took place and handover was confirmed. So they said it wasnt  fair to 
hold them responsible for anything that went wrong  before that. They also referred the 
adjudicator to several previous decisions made by this service  that they said demonstrated  
we had taken  an opposing view in the past.  They therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN86493402my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint VWFS so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr E acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.  
The terms of the hire agreement allowed VWFS  to make charges for damage that was 
beyond reasonable wear  and tear. The industry  guidelines on what is considered fair wear 
and tear, on a vehicle  returned at the end of its lease, are provided by the British  Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA). Ive reviewed the photographs of the damage  
against this standard and would agree that in each instance the damage is beyond  
acceptable wear  and tear and a charge could therefore be made.
But Ive also considered the photographic evidence provided by Mr E. The photographs  are 
not date stamped so I cant confirm when these  were taken. And, even  if I was prepared to 
accept that they were  taken shortly before Mr E dropped  the car off at the dealership,  I dont 
think theres sufficient evidence in his photographs  to demonstrate the damage, 
subsequently picked up by the inspector,  wasnt  present  when Mr E dropped the car off.
The pictures are mainly taken from a distance.  They are of good quality so it is possible to 
zoom in to inspect the areas in question. Having done so, I can see the damage to the rear 
bumper that the inspector noted  in his report. So I think that charge is evidenced.
Im not able to find images that are clear enough to enable me to ascertain whether there  is, 
or isnt, damage to the wing or the bonnet (which I think, from the inspectors photograph, is 
actually damage  to the front bumper).  So I dont think  there is evidence  that the damage to 
these two areas was not present when the car was dropped off at the dealership. I therefore 
think those two charges  should also stand. And overall, Im not expecting  to ask VWFS  to 
take any further action.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
VWFS had nothing to add but Mr E wrote  to say he could not understand why I had come  to 
a totally different view than the adjudicator  had based on the exactly the same evidence.  He 
thought it wasnt  fair for me to consider the complaint as VWFS hadnt responded to the 
Ref: DRN86493403adjudicators view. He was also confused about what  my decision  actually  was as Id 
explained I agreed with the adjudicators view and then went on to say that I didnt.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wrote  to Mr E separately to apologise for the slip Id made when writing the provisional 
decision. I explained that I hadnt meant to say I agreed with the adjudicators  view,  as I 
didnt.
Our process  is for a final decision to be made by an ombudsman if either the business  or the 
consumer fails to respond  to the adjudicators view. So, whilst  I understand Mr Es 
frustration, I dont think the process  has been  incorrectly applied.
I understand his concern that an ombudsman has come to a different view than the 
adjudicator. In my decision I explained  that that was because I didnt think there was 
sufficient information  in the photographs  Mr E had provided to suggest the damage wasnt 
there before he dropped the car off. In one instance  the photographs  he provided appeared 
to show some of the damage was there. There was a delay of nine days between Mr E 
dropping the car off and the inspection being completed. It is possible that the damage 
happened in that period but as Mr E had been  in possession of the car since  March  2016 I 
still think there was much  more chance  that the damage happened  before he dropped the 
car off and Ive therefore not been persuaded to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8649340