K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  Admiral Insurance  Company Limited. They arent  
happy about the valuation  of their car following a claim on their motor insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W made a claim under their car insurance policy. Admiral accepted the claim 
and looked to pay them the market  value of their car.
 
Initially Admiral offered £1600 but it increased  its offer to £2000  in order  to try and resolve  
the complaint.  But Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy so they complained to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. She looked  at 
all the motor valuation  guides in order to see if Admirals offer was fair. And as Admiral  had 
offered Mr and Mrs W a higher amount than the guides she didnt think it had acted 
unreasonably.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think that the 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws frustration here as they have paid more for a similar  car 
and would like the difference in cost. But when looking at valuations placed on cars by 
insurance companies I consider the approach they have  adopted. And decide whether or not 
the valuation is fair in all the circumstances.
Valuing cars is far from an exact science  and it isnt the role of this to value vehicles. So, as 
outlined by the adjudicator, this service pays particular attention to the various trade  guides  
used for valuing cars, as well as other  evidence provided by both sides in looking to see if 
insures have acted reasonably. 
This evidence might  include advertisements for the sale of similar cars and magazine 
articles; although I place less weight on advertisements than on the trade guides. I know  
Mr W doesnt accept this position but cars dont generally sell for the price at which  they are 
advertised. The condition of the car at the time the damage occurred is also an important 
factor to consider. I will only tell a business  to increase its valuation if I consider it is unfair.
In this instance Mr W has clearly outlined why he thinks their car is worth  more and that the 
guides arent accurate for this particular type of car. He says this as he just wasnt  able to 
get a similar  car for the valuation offered and they have had to pay more which he feels is 
unfair. 
But the guides have provided  values for their particular make and model of car in good 
condition with similar specification. They give a guide price for a car bought  from a car 
dealership or similar from around the date of claim. 
Ref: DRN85889312Although the guides have produced different valuations  Admiral has gone  on to pay £400 
more than the highest valuation. I know Mr W feels that this suggests Admiral  knows that the 
car is worth more. 
But Ive not seen sufficient evidence to support  that position. Our adjudicator has looked at 
all the guides  and all of them have provided a lower valuation than Admiral  has agreed to 
pay. And Admiral has said that it was just trying  to resolve things by offering £400 more  than 
the top motor  valuation  guide which seems more than fair to me. 
So, having  looked at all the guides  and valuations provided I think that Admirals  offer is 
more than fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8588931