K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied fees and charges to 
her account  when these  had been  frozen.
background
Mrs L says that her account  was frozen  due to her being in financial difficulty but then fees 
and charges were  applied. She says she was going through difficult  personal circumstances 
at the time and given the agreement to freeze  her account was broken, this account should 
now be removed from her credit file and her debt cleared.
NatWest says that a complaint was raised in June 2014 and it agreed  that a mistake had 
been made. It refunded charges of around £400,  waived interest and paid Mrs L £30 
compensation. It says it then placed  her account on hold for 28 days  for Mrs L to provide her 
income and expenditure information for a repayment  plan to be set up. At this time it says 
Mrs L was close to her £250 overdraft  limit.
NatWest says it tried to contact Mrs L but was unsuccessful. Mrs L then contacted NatWest 
in January 2015 and she was asked her for income  and expenditure information  but she was 
not able to provide this at that time. It was agreed  Mrs L would call back but NatWest says 
this didnt happen. It says that although a hold had been agreed  on Mrs Ls account 
previously this would not be in place  indefinitely.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that NatWest should refund the interest  and 
charges applied to Mrs Ls account after her complaint was upheld  in June 2014 as it was 
aware she was in in financial  difficulty at that time. He said this amount  should be removed 
from the amount  recorded in Mrs Ls credit file and that the default should be backdated  to 
July 2014.
NatWest agreed with our adjudicators view. Mrs L thought that NatWest should clear  the 
debt on her account due to her circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  through  Mrs Ls account statement and can see that from end 2013  
transactions were  not being made which suggests  the account was frozen  at this time. This 
was after Mrs L had informed the bank about  her personal and financial circumstances. 
However after this time charges were  applied to the account. Mrs L raised a complaint and in 
June 2014 charges were refunded along  with an adjustment and compensation of £30. This 
returned Mrs Ls account to just under  her £250 overdraft limit, which  was the position  on the 
account in January 2014.
Mrs Ls current complaint relates  to charges  applied to the account  after this date. I have 
looked through the banks  contact  notes and can see that a 28 day hold was placed  on the 
account in June 2014. Contact attempts were made by the bank but unfortunately these 
werent successful and it wasnt until January 2015 that contact  was made. At this time Mrs L 
Ref: DRN81366362was not able to complete an income  and expenditure  assessment as was told to call back  
within two days.
I accept that NatWest was trying  to work with Mrs L in regard to gathering income and 
expenditure information to set up an affordable repayment plan. I also accept that it will not 
place accounts  on hold indefinitely. However,  it is also clear  that during this period Mrs L 
was facing financial difficulties. NatWest was aware  of her situation  and was required to treat 
her positively and sympathetically.  Because of this I agree with our adjudicator that NatWest 
should not have been applying charges to her account at this time.
Because of the above, I agree that NatWest should refund the interest and charges applied 
to Mrs L's account after her complaint  was upheld in June 2014 and this amount should  be 
deducted from her credit  file.
Our adjudicator also said that the date of the default  should be back dated to July 2014. 
Having looked  through Mrs Ls account it had not been used since end 2013 and given the 
discussions that had taken place in June  2014, I find it reasonable that NatWest  were aware 
of Mrs Ls situation  and that this was unlikely to improve in the near future. Because of this I 
agree that the default should be dated July 2014  rather than July 2015  as was originally 
recorded.
I appreciate that Mrs L wants the debt removed from her credit file due to the difficult 
personal circumstances she is experiencing. However, I do not find that I can require 
NatWest to do this. Mrs L was aware  of the overdraft on her account  and had the benefit  of 
this before the account was frozen.  She was aware  in June 2014 of the outstanding amount 
and the need to set up a repayment plan for this.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. However as National Westminster Bank Plc 
has removed the fees and charges applied to Mrs Ls account since June 2014  and recorded  
the reduced amount on her credit  file along with back dating the default to July 2014, I do not 
require it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8136636