K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist), harassed him for information he had 
already provided.  He asks to be compensated for the trouble and upset this caused. 
background
On 29 September  2018, Hoist wrote to Mr B requesting he make payment arrangements  for 
his account to avoid any collection activity. The letter says Hoist  will place a 30-day hold on 
the account.
On 25 October 2018, Hoist sent Mr B an income and expenditure form to complete. It wrote  
again on 26 November  to say it hadnt received  a response and requested  Mr B contact 
regarding payment. The letter gives details of a free debt charity  Mr B could contact if he is 
experiencing financial difficulties.
Mr B emailed a completed income and expenditure form on 2 December 2018. But he says 
Hoist continued  to request this information after he had sent it.
On 28 December 2018, Mr B telephoned Hoist to complain about it requesting information 
he had already provided. He said he felt this was harassment and was unfair.
In its final response,  Hoist  upheld Mr Bs complaint. It said it had received Mr Bs income and 
expenditure form on 2 December  and had asked for this information again  on 28 December  
in error.  It apologised and said it aims to review customer  correspondence  within  5 days and 
it failed to do so in this case. But it didnt agree this constituted harassment or that its error 
warranted financial compensation.
Mr B disagreed and asked this service to look into things for him.
An investigator reviewed  the information  provided and listened to the telephone calls 
between Mr B and Hoist. She agreed  there had been error in asking for the income  and 
expenditure a second time when  Hoist had already received it. She didnt agree from what  
shed seen that Hoist had harassed Mr B and do didnt ask it to do anything  further.   
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so Im in agreement with the investigators view. I appreciate this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr B. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
Ref: DRN82494122At the outset, I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt 
intended to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Instead, this service looks to resolve individual  complaints between  a 
consumer and a business. Should  we decide  that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible,  in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Theres no dispute here that Hoist made  an error in asking for information it had already 
received. Ive listened to the telephone conversations between both parties and as soon as 
Mr B brought this to their attention, it acknowledged the income and expenditure form had 
been received  and apologised. Im not persuaded in requesting the information a second  
time, despite being an error, that it has harassed Mr B.
I appreciate Mr B found this matter frustrating but in my view Hoist  acted fairly and 
reasonably and has apologised for its error  and so Im not going to ask it do anything 
further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249412