K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank of Scotland trading at the time as 
Halifax) mis-sold him a credit card payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for the credit  card online in June  2008.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr D says he had no need for PPI and if the optionality of the policy  had been  made  clear  he 
would have declined  from having it. But Im not persuaded that Mr D has a detailed 
recollection of the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it took place. So I have 
also looked at the sales documentation from the time of sale.
Looking at the credit agreement, it provides a summary of the information Mr D provided 
online during the application process.  It notes  that he has requested PPI. Furthermore there  
is a separate section  at the bottom  of the form where Mr D has to again confirm whether  or 
not he wants the policy. There is a tick in the box next to the statement I wish to purchase 
Credit Card  Repayments Cover.  Mr D has then signed  in that section to agree to the PPI (as 
well as signing separately for the credit card itself).
From the available evidence, I think that the PPI was presented as optional. It seems  to me 
that Mr D decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers  
doing so.
Bank of Scotland didnt advise Mr D to buy the policy, so it didnt need  to ensure that it met 
his needs. But it did need to provide him with enough information so he could make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr D has told us he would have received at six months  full and six months  half sick pay from 
his job. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially  for 
longer than Mr D would have received full pay for. Having the policy would have  allowed  him 
to retain  his sick pay to cover other  household bills at what  would  have been  a difficult time.  
Its possible that Bank of Scotland  didnt  provide  as much information as it should have 
about the policy, particularly about  the things it didnt  cover. But M D wasnt  affected by any 
of those things.  As I think that Mr D had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind.
Ref: DRN84594662This means  that I dont think that the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt 
have to refund everything Mr D paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  plc has already paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8459466