K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains about the damage charges LeasePlan UK Limited (LP) is requiring him to 
pay following the end of his car hire agreement.
background
Mr E says it had been agreed the car would be collected on 5 November 2018, but he says 
the collection agent changed it to 7 November, so he had to pay for insurance cover  for the 
car in the meantime.  He says after the car was collected he was sent a bill for over £600 for 
repairs, which he disputed. And he says he got his own quotes for the repairs and the 
cheapest was £149.
Mr E also says he wants LP to waive the charges and he says,  if anything,  it owes him 
compensation for the time and inconvenience  of dealing with this matter.
Our investigator thought Mr Es complaint should be partly upheld. He said LP should waive 
the charges for two of the items of damage at a cost of £93 and £57 respectively. And it 
should reimburse £23 for his additional insurance  costs and pay him £50 compensation for 
the inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr E disagreed with the investigators conclusions.  He said the photos taken by LP werent 
taken outside  his office where the car was collected.  And he said this proves  its possible the 
damage was caused by the LP driver.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Es complaint  and Ill explain why.
I see the terms of Mr Es hire agreement required him to pay LP for any damage  to the car in 
excess of fair wear and tear, as defined by a set of guidelines widely  recognised in the 
vehicle leasing industry. And I see the damage charges its requiring him to pay are the 
result of an inspection of the car carried out in accordance with those  guidelines.
Ive reviewed the photos of the various items that LP says amount to chargeable damage  to 
Mr Es car and I note its already agreed to waive item 11, so theres no need  for me to say 
anything more about this matter. Of the remaining items I dont think  its clear from the 
photos that item 6 a scratch  to primer on the offside  front door is indeed down to the primer.  
Or that item 9 a dent  20mm by 60 mm on the nearside right inner sill is indeed a dent and if 
so, how large it might  be. So, I think its reasonable for me to require LP to remove  these 
items from the list of damage charges.      
I am, however, satisfied  that all of the remaining items of damage fall outside  the definition  of 
fair wear and tear, according to the industry standard  guidelines applicable to Mr Es hire 
agreement and under  which the car was inspected.
Ref: DRN87793292I acknowledge Mr E says the repairs could be carried out at a significantly lower cost than 
LPs charging him. But he had the option  to have any damage  repaired before the end of his 
agreement. And Ive no reason to consider the repair costs specified  following the inspection  
to be excessive or unreasonable. So, I cant uphold this aspect of Mr Es complaint.
I also note Mr Es given us information  about where  the car was driven after it was collected 
and where the inspection  took place. And hes indicated this supports his belief that the 
damage took place  after the car was collected from him. But taking everything Ive seen into 
account, I cant conclude  its most  likely the damage  was caused after the car was collected 
from Mr E and before the inspection took place. I think its more likely  to have happened 
during the period of nearly three years it was in his possession.  
I see Mr E incurred  additional insurance costs for the car as a result  of a delay in LP 
collecting it from him and he experienced some inconvenience as a result of this matter. So, 
I think its fair for me to require LP to reimburse £23 for Mr Es additional insurance costs and 
to pay him £50 compensation for the inconvenience hes experienced.
And I partly uphold Mr Es complaint  on this basis. 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  Mr Es complaint against LeasePlan UK Limited. It must waive  the charges for 
two of the items of damage its charged  him for at a total cost of £150. It must also reimburse 
£23 for his additional insurance costs and pay him £50 compensation for the inconvenience  
hes been caused as a result of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  15 August 2019. 
                     
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8779329