K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about the end of contract collection of a car on a Hire Purchase Agreement  
with Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). And about  end of contract 
charges. He would  like more financial compensation than MBFS has offered.
background
Mr L says he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement with MBFS in March  2015. This was a 
three year agreement with a mileage allowance of 10,000  miles per annum.
He says when  the car was due to be collected the agent went to the wrong  address causing  
him some inconvenience. When  the agent  did collect the car he didnt inspect it. Later  MBFS 
sent him a bill in the region of £1,500-£2,000 for damage to the car. And for excess mileage.
Mr L says he was able to provide video evidence showing the agent collected the car and 
drove away with no inspection. He says MBFS accepted this and waived all damage 
charges. And reduced the excess mileage costs by approximately  £460.  He says it also 
agreed that the collection agent company  would pay £150  compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. Mr L says he didnt accept this as he didnt think  it was sufficient.
MBFS said it accepted  no inspection had been carried out. It discussed  this with the 
collection company.  And confirmed disciplinary action had been  taken against the relevant 
individual who had fraudulently signed  the inspection sheet.
It said it waived all the damage charges and reduced the charge  for excess mileage. As it 
couldnt be sure of the exact mileage on collection it took the mileage logged on a visit to the 
dealership a moth before Mr Ls contract  ended. Based on that figure it reduced the excess 
mileage charge by £460.
It also agreed with the collection company that it would  pay £150 compensation but Mr L 
didnt accept this.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found the trouble and upset caused to Mr L 
had been recognised by MBFS by the £150  offer of compensation.  He felt removing charges 
for damage  was fair as MBFS  couldnt  be sure who caused the damage. And he felt that 
MBFS approach to changing the excess mileage charge was fair.
MBFS accepted this view but Mr L didnt. He didnt feel the outcome was fair and asked for 
an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that the collection agent didnt inspect Mr Ls car. Mr L has proved that 
by video evidence.  And MBFS  has accepted that.
As no inspection was carried out on Mr Ls car MBFS said it waived all charges for damage.   
I think that was fair since MBFS  couldnt  be sure what damage there was and when it 
occurred. 
Ref: DRN81156612That left a remaining  charge for excess mileage. Ive seen  the contract that Mr L signed. 
That does state  that MBFS is entitled to charge for excess miles at a rate of 16 pence  per 
mile. So I do think that is a charge Mr L could have  expected to have.
As MBFS  couldnt be sure of the accuracy of the figure recorded by the collection agent  it 
used an odometer  reading taken the month before  Mr Ls contract ended when Mr L took his 
car into the dealership.
That reading worked in Mr Ls favour since he must  have driven  some  miles in the final 
month of the contract.  I think that was a fair reading for MBFS to use. It couldnt  be sure if 
the reading given  by the collection agent  was accurate. And I cant  think  of another  way 
MBFS could fairly have assessed the mileage used.
As I understand it Mr Ls contract allowed for an annual mileage of 10,000 miles.  I havent 
seen that specified in the documentation  I have  received. But as Mr L hasnt disputed  this 
figure I have no reason  to question it.
The reading in February  2018 showed  38,357 miles. Based on an allowed mileage of 10,000  
miles per annum that meant  Mr L should have returned the car with only 30,000 miles on it. I 
dont think its unreasonable for MBFS to charge for the excess 8,357 miles.
I appreciate Mr L feels £150  compensation for distress and inconvenience that he has been 
offered isnt sufficient.  He has told us there  was some inconvenience  in the agent going to 
the wrong address to collect the car. And I appreciate he has taken time to query charges 
that he didnt feel were fair.
But I think MBFS has acted very reasonably in removing all damage charges. And in using a 
previous mileage figure to calculate  excess mileage. Its actions have probably financially 
benefitted Mr L since I think its fair to say he would have driven some miles in the last month 
of his contract.  And there may well have been  damage MBFS could have charged for if the 
inspection had been carried out. So I dont think  Mr L has suffered any financial loss that I 
could take into account.
I do think MBFS has taken Mr Ls complaint seriously. Along with the offer of £150  
compensation  which  I leave  to Mr L to take or not  disciplinary action has been taken 
against the collection agent.  I dont  think I can reasonably ask MBFS to do anymore.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8115661