K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complained that the advice she received from 2009 to 2013 from True Bearing Ltd 
regarding her pension  left her financially disadvantaged. The advice she was concerned 
about was:
advice to transfer her pension to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP)
the recommendation to switch funds when  reviewed
the transfer from the SIPP  to a fixed term annuity in 2013
the lack of consideration about  her long term income  needs once the period of the fixed  
annuity ended.
background
In 2009 Mrs L and her husband, Mr L, met with True Bearing to discuss  pension planning. 
She was 62 years old at that point and was employed in their family business. She was 
earning around £50,000 and was intending  to retire at age 65. She had pension benefits in a 
small self-administered scheme  (SSAS)  for their family business.  
True Bearing recommended  that Mrs L transfer  her share of the value in the SSAS into a 
SIPP. An application was made to transfer and in January  2010  Mrs L had £226,400 
transferred to her SIPP.
In April 2010 True Bearing reviewed Mrs Ls pension  and recommended  an investment 
strategy reflecting  Mrs L being a cautious  investor.  Mrs L followed True Bearings 
recommendation.
In March 2011 Mr and Mrs L met with True Bearing  again. Mrs L was no longer employed by 
the family  business.  Their business bank  required  a payment of £100,000 as a result  of a 
personal guarantee for a business banking facility, and they needed to cover this debt. 
True Bearing recommended  taking the maximum tax free lump sum and recommended 
drawdown strategy for both Mr and Mrs L to meet their combined income needs. 
In September  2012 True Bearing  reviewed Mrs Ls pension again. True Bearing 
recommended that she purchase a fixed term annuity to provide her with an annual income 
of £13,300 to the age of 75. The illustration  indicated that there  would be a maturity  value of 
£65,122 at the end of that term. The recommendation  report indicated that she could  then 
purchase an annuity of £5,030 a year. In 2013  Mrs L purchased  a fixed term annuity to 
provide for the same annual  income,  but instead  to the age of 78. The guaranteed maturity  
value was £42,372. True Bearing  provided a supporting illustration showing that an annuity 
of £3,176 could potentially  be purchased with that sum at age 78.
Mr L and Mrs L complained to True Bearing  in November 2017. They said that theyd been 
financially disadvantaged as a result of the advice True Bearing gave.
True Bearing didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. They said that their advice provided Mrs L with 
the annual income  that she needed at the time. They explained that she hadnt been 
financially disadvantaged because the amount of income shed have received from her 
pension and the amount still left in her SIPP at the point the fixed  annuity matures  will be 
greater than the original fund value.
Mrs L brought her complaint to our service. She complained that the advice to transfer her 
Ref: DRN83915062pension into a SIPP and the investments selected werent suitable for her. She also didnt 
think the advice  to transfer to a fixed term annuity  was suitable and didnt consider her 
longer term income  needs in retirement.
True Bearing didnt think that the complaint was one our service  could  consider.  They  
thought it had been brought too late, as the advice  in 2011 was more than six years before 
the complaint  was made, and they suggested  Mr and Mrs L ought to have known more  than 
three years before they complained.
An ombudsman considered the issue of jurisdiction and issued a decision that the case  was 
something that we were  able to deal with. She explained that the advice provided in 2009, 
2010 and 2011 were  given more than six years  before the complaint was made.  So she 
considered whether Mrs L ought reasonably to have known she had cause to complain more  
than three  years before she did. And the ombudsman couldnt identify any event  that ought 
to have given  Mrs L that cause.  
Our investigator then looked into the merits of Mrs Ls complaint and gave their view.  But 
True Bearing didnt agree with our investigators  opinion. They didnt  agree  that we should 
be dealing  with Mr and Mrs Ls complaints separately, as the advice they provided was 
addressed to them both and considered their joint financial positions. True Bearing  also 
reiterated their earlier  view that the complaint  Mrs L made, specifically  their advice in 2011 
was brought too late for us to consider. So asked that the issue  of jurisdiction again be 
considered. They believe that the fact that Mrs L had concerns about the performance of the 
fund and therefore whether to continue to drawdown  on her pension  in 2013 should  have 
been a trigger  to Mrs L that she had cause to complain. Because  True Bearing didnt agree 
with our investigator the case was referred  for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  to let them know  my view and give them  the 
opportunity to respond.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was satisfied that this case  had been  made  in 
time, and that the jurisdiction decision was still correct. And I explained why I agreed with our 
investigator that the advice to transfer  to the SIPP was suitable. But I explained that I didnt 
think that the original  advice  to take an income by drawdown was unsuitable. I thought  that it 
met the needs  of Mr and Mrs L at that stage of their retirement. True Bearing showed fact 
find and suitability reports that indicated an understanding of Mr and Mrs Ls income 
requirements. I thought  that the suitability  reports at all stages explained the options and 
satisfied me that annuities  had always been considered as an alternative. Ultimately, once 
the pension commencement lump  sum was taken  to cover the £100,000 debt, the annuities  
that could be purchased  with the remaining fund were smaller than the income Mr and Mrs L 
seem to have wanted. I explained that the report identified the potential long term impact on 
Mr and Mrs Ls pension income,  explaining that they understood theyd most likely have a 
reduced income requirement in the future.  And they had other  assets that could fund their 
retirement at that stage.  True Bearings subsequent recommendation to take out a fixed term 
annuity was also a suitable way to achieve the same objective, but in a way that reduced 
Mrs Ls exposure to investment risk at that time.
Ref: DRN83915063Response to my provisional decision
True Bearing offered  no further comment following my provisional  decision. Including on the 
issue of this case being within our jurisdiction to deal with.
Mr L and Mrs L responded in detail and Im grateful for the time they took to go through  and 
consider the points that I made. Id like to assure  them that Ive considered their response  in 
detail but summarise here what I consider  to be the main objections:
that the transfer of their pensions to the SIPPs meant higher fees
that the income they took in drawdown  in 2010/11 wasnt  based on what  they needed 
but rather what they were advised to take
that they werent shown quotes  for joint life annuities, and that had True Bearing 
recommended that, they would have taken  that advice
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive come to decision that True 
Bearing havent done anything wrong. Ill explain why by addressing  the advice True Bearing  
provided in chronological order.
Advice provided in 2009
The advice provided at this stage appears  to have been done in preparation  for Mrs L taking 
her pension within the next couple of years. As such it was a suitable  time to start planning. 
It was likely that Mrs L was going to need  to take benefits from her pension  in the near 
future. But the report indicated that Mrs L was still receiving a salary  in the region of £50,000 
and showed an expectation that there  would be an ongoing income  from their family 
business that would still be run by Mr and Mrs Ls son.
The recommendation report indicated the benefits  of the existing  schemes in broad terms. A 
recommendation was made to transfer Mrs Ls pension  from the SSAS to a SIPP.  The 
recommendation report indicates Mr and Mrs Ls disappointment  with the performance and 
costs of the SSAS, and the movement  to the SIPP addressed that concern.
The report  indicated that by transferring to the SIPP the overall cost would be lower. Mr L 
has specifically challenged this point. But Ive looked closely at the fees structure and dont 
think Mr L is correct.  The SSAS had an annual maintenance fee of £1000 plus a fee of 1% of 
the fund value each year. In comparison the cost of the SIPP  platform  was an annual  charge 
of £250 (plus VAT). There was an exit fee of £150 payable to the SSAS  on leaving and a 
setup fee of £150 to start the SIPP. But overall  the costs of the SIPP were potentially  lower, 
although there were  other charges based on activities performed within the SIPP.
Mr L has suggested that there was a 1.5% annual charge on the SIPP  but this isnt right.  The 
suitability report refers  separately to recommended funds, with the Pennine Pathfinder  fund 
charging an annual  fee of 1.5%. Which is a cost that would be incurred only on any sums 
invested into that fund. The suitability report indicates that the question of the higher charge 
for this fund were discussed. And accepted  as part of the cost of having access  to the 
management expertise.  I would  also highlight  that some of the pension value was placed in 
a Building Society,  which would have attracted no additional annual management fee. So 
overall, I dont think the evidence  shows  that the SIPP was a more expensive platform 
Ref: DRN83915064because of charges.  So I think it was more  likely  than not a suitable transfer to recommend 
for Mrs L.
Advice provided in 2010
In April 2010 True Bearing provided  further  written  advice  to Mr and Mrs L. At that point the 
cash transferred to her SIPP had yet to be invested. True Bearings recommendation letter  
indicated that Mr and Mrs L were no longer receiving income from their business.  The 
household income consisted of the state pension that Mrs L was receiving.  Mr L was using 
his savings in order to meet his monthly expenditure which was estimated to be about 
£2,500.
Mrs L was again  assessed as having  a cautious attitude to risk. True Bearing completed a 
questionnaire to come to this conclusion which I think was a fair assessment. And Mrs Ls 
circumstances at this stage were such that her capacity for loss on this pension were most  
likely to be quite low. She wasnt in a position  to build an alternative  pension, and this 
pension would soon  need to provide an income.
Notes provided by True Bearing from the time indicate that Mr and Mrs L had assets 
including a house worth  roughly £275,000 and a holiday apartment overseas worth  about 
£150,000. They also had savings of about  £52,000,  an endowment policy set to mature  in 
August valued  about £15,000  and Mr L would be in receipt of his state pension  by 
September.
True Bearing recommended  the following investments, which Mrs L accepted:
£110,000 in an open ended investment  company (OEIC)
£60,000 in a with profits fund
£50,000 in a building society one year fixed rate bond (interest  rate 3.15%)
remainder  in the SIPP cash account
The OEIC that was selected was the Pennine  Pathfinder  Fund and was classified as being a 
cautious investment  so was a suitable  choice for Mrs L. Similarly, the with profits  fund was a 
suitable product  for Mrs Ls aims. The inclusion of the building  society  savings accounts  
provided a safe place  for a large  part of Mrs Ls money without tying  it up for a long period.  It 
afforded reasonable interest and a way to allow for the recommended drawdown strategy. 
All told I think that the investment  strategy  was suitable for Mrs Ls cautious  attitude to risk.
True Bearing recommended  a strategy  of drawdowns but that recommendation wasnt  
followed at that stage.
Advice provided in 2011
In March of 2011  True Bearing provided Mr and Mrs L with further advice about how to take 
pension incomes.  Their family business was no longer trading and True Bearing  listed  one of 
their financial  objectives was raising £100,000  to pay an outstanding business  debt. The 
other immediate objective  was to find out if they could generate a net income of £25,000 
from their combined pension funds to supplement  their income. This is clearly set out in the 
objectives so I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for True Bearing  to establish if it 
could be achieved with the pension available to Mr and Mrs L.
Ref: DRN83915065True Bearings recommendation made it clear that the option of selling  Mr and Mrs Ls 
holiday property was discussed. And it would  likely  have provided the funds necessary to 
meet the £100,000 debt without Mrs L having  to take the tax-free cash  from her SIPP.  But 
the report highlights  that Mr and Mrs L didnt want to part with it. And I can understand that. It 
was an important lifestyle consideration  for Mr and Mrs L. So I think  its more likely  than not 
that Mr and Mrs L didnt  want  to take that route at that time. The idea that the holiday 
property could be retained and used in the early part of his retirement, then sold to access  
the equity in it later wasnt unreasonable. With access to sufficient tax free cash  from their 
pensions, selling their holiday  home  was unlikely  to be an attractive option.
Mrs L had about  £233,000 in her SIPP at this point.  True Bearing recommended  that she 
withdraw the maximum tax free cash of £57,859. Whilst that wouldnt be enough to pay the 
£100,000 debt, Mr L was also recommended to take his maximum tax free cash. After 
repaying the £100,000  debt, the recommendation was that the surplus  was placed into ISAs  
over the next two financial years.  True Bearing  recommended that Mrs L then take a 
drawdown income from her SIPP. 
The recommendation indicated that the maximum drawdown that Mrs L would then be able 
to take was £7,998 a year. But I dont think this was accurate. Mrs L went on to take a 
drawdown income of about £13,300  from her SIPP after taking her tax free cash. So I think 
she understood that she had the flexibility to choose  the level of drawdown income she 
thought she needed.
The maximum amount allowed in drawdown  is governed by tables published by the 
Government Actuarys Department (GAD). And the amount  allowed relates to the Gilt Index 
Yields and the consumers  age. It is revisited every  five years  in drawdown, and changes  in 
Gilt Yields can increase  or reduce the maximum drawdown allowed. This prevents 
drawdown income being taken at a rate which would exhaust funds too quickly.  The Gilt 
Yield index  in 2011 was around 4%, and I think that the GAD tables indicate  that Mrs L 
would have had a maximum drawdown  of around £13,800. So Mrs L was taking  close  to the 
maximum drawdown available. But this figure  was not the recommended drawdown in the 
report, although the report did indicate  taking a maximum drawdown.
True Bearing indicated that investment returns of 5.4% would be needed in order  to provide 
the same  level of income up to 70 and still buy a similar annuity at that point. They  didnt 
provide any comment on whether that was achievable or not though  with their recommended 
investments. Mrs L was considered to be a cautious  risk investor, but not entirely  risk 
averse. She was open to the idea of generating some investment returns. So the strategy  of 
taking a drawdown income allowed  for the potential for investment returns on her pension  
fund.
Still, taking  that income level in drawdown  would deplete Mrs Ls pension fund meaning  she 
would have a smaller  pension in the future. But the maximum drawdown income would 
reduce in line with the GAD  tables  if the fund depleted to allow  for this. True Bearings 
recommendation provided a legitimate way for Mrs L to access an income  that more likely  
than not met her requirements  at the time. And the alternative of taking an annuity was less 
likely to meet her needs. This recommendation was also made  based  on an understanding  
that Mrs Ls income requirements  would reduce in the future. 
At the time this drawdown income  was recommended,  Mr and Mrs L would have had 
£40,000 in investment ISAs (from the money left over from the tax free lump  sum)  and 
around £37,500 in cash.  They also had a holiday property valued  at £150,000 that they 
Ref: DRN83915066intended to sell in the future. I think this level of cash and assets gave them the capacity to 
tolerate the decrease in their pension that may have come about  in drawdown. So I think  
True Bearings recommendation at this point was suitable for their requirements. 
Advice provided in 2013
True Bearing provided Mr and Mrs L with further  retirement planning advice in March  2013. 
Their recommendation  letter summarised  Mr Ls current position and objectives.  They  said 
you are enjoying your retirement and it was your intention to continue  to draw  a higher level 
of income from your SIPP until you attain age 75 at which point you expect  your expenditure 
to significantly reduce as you do not expect to be travelling abroad as much.  You explained 
to me that the initial advice had been  to draw the maximum allowable  draw  from your SIPP 
for a 10 year period from the outset, at which point you would be looking to sell a holiday 
apartment  and look to draw on monies  obtained  from the sale and other investments and 
cash holdings for the remainder of your retirement. This was not inconsistent  with the earlier  
objectives and showed an understanding of the rationale for the previous recommendations 
made. 
There was a further change in circumstances  at this point as Mr and Mrs L had put their 
home on the market  with the intention of downsizing to an apartment. Which was likely to 
release equity held in property.
The report  identified that Mrs L had been  taking  £13,330 a year in drawdown income. True 
Bearings adviser had reviewed Mrs Ls attitude to risk, identifying it was reducing. And the 
amount of risk that Mr L was prepared to accept meant that the kinds  of investment returns 
he was likely to make would deplete the capital  in his SIPP. At this point, I think  the reducing 
attitude to risk meant it was appropriate  that the adviser considered alternatives for Mrs L.
As before, the option of an annuity  was discussed. The recommendation report  provided an 
illustration of an annuity for Mrs L of £8,019. This illustration was for a joint life annuity, which 
was the type of annuity that Mrs L would have wanted. This would have caused a drop in the 
income for Mrs L at that point. And with the illustrated equivalent annuity for Mr L of £11,568 
left them  short of their target income  of £25,000  a year net from their pensions.  But would 
have provided  a pension guaranteed for life. 
True Bearings adviser explored the option  of a fixed term annuity. This was a product that 
provided a guaranteed level of income  for a set period, leaving a guaranteed maturity  value 
at the end. True Bearing recommended a fixed term annuity of £13,300 to age 75, with a 
guaranteed maturity value of £65,122.  And they indicated  that could then purchase an 
annuity of £5,030 at age 75 with 100% spouse  benefit. And they set this out in a table with a 
clear comparison  of a conventional  annuity  providing £7,974.  I think  this information  was 
represented in as clear  a way as it couldve been.  I think it should have been very clear  to 
Mrs L that her choices involved taking a smaller  income that was guaranteed  for life, or a 
larger income for a period, reducing from age 75. Given Mr and Mrs Ls overall  objectives,  
and the access  to other savings and assets  to support them later in life when their 
anticipated expenditure would reduce. I dont think that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
It provided Mrs L the larger income in the short term that the drawdown  afforded her but 
removed investment risks that she had with the drawdown strategy.
In August  2013  True Bearing  wrote  to Mr and Mrs L again, with an addendum to their 
recommendation in March  2013. It explained that when the recommendation was presented 
they also discussed quotes for a fixed term annuity to ages 78 and 80, and how that would 
Ref: DRN83915067affect future  income. The addendum  documented that Mrs L decided  to take a fixed annuity 
of £13,330 until age 78 instead  of the earlier recommended term. The addendum provided 
clear information that this would reduce the guaranteed maturity value to £42,372 and 
reduced the potential annuity at 78 to £3,178.
Mrs L accepted  True Bearings recommendation and took the fixed term annuity. And I think  
that True Bearing made it clear to Mrs L that in doing so her future income  would have been 
lower as a result. I think  that the advice to take the pension in this way was, more  likely than 
not, suitable. The options of annuities were presented in a clear  way. But I dont think  they 
met Mr and Mrs Ls objectives. They didnt meet their income requirements and would have 
meant them utilising  their savings in order to maintain the lifestyle  they wanted. The advice  
given was consistent with the objective to retain and use the overseas holiday home until 
age 78. At which point  it could be sold when Mr and Mrs Ls income  would reduce.
For the above reasons, I dont think that the advice True Bearing gave Mrs L was unsuitable.  
And I dont  think that it has caused  her financial loss. True Bearing have demonstrated that 
they endeavoured to understand Mrs Ls circumstances and requirements.  She had options 
in the way that she took her pension  benefits.  But her fund size didnt  allow for an annuity of 
the size she wanted from the outset. True Bearing were always  faced with the option of 
making a recommendation that provided a guaranteed income  that was smaller than 
needed, or the required income in the short to medium term but less in the future. And given 
Mrs Ls overall circumstances  at the time,  I think that the advice they gave was a fair and 
reasonable way to meet her needs. And was clearly explained.
I understand that Mrs L will be facing a drop in her income when shes 78. But I dont agree 
that this is an unexpected  consequence of the recommendation she was given. It was 
always an accepted  part of her retirement  planning,  and at the time True Bearing provided 
the advice, was a fair and reasonable compromise to achieve Mrs Ls stated objectives 
overall.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mrs Ls complaint against True Bearing  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8391506