K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that Scottish  Equitable plc, trading as Aegon, isnt able to offer him the 
benefit options he wants from his pension plan.  Mr M is also unhappy that hes had trouble 
communicating with Aegon. 
This is one of two complaints that Mr M has brought to us about Aegon.  In the other  
complaint, Mr M complained about:  the delay in Aegon paying him a partial  lump  sum 
payment from his pension  plan; and, the deduction of income  tax from that payment. One of 
my fellow ombudsmen has already issued a final decision on that complaint   so I wont be 
dealing with any of those issues in this decision. 
background
Mr M has held a UK based  pension plan with Aegon since 1989,  but hes lived overseas for 
many years. The selected retirement  date for Mr Ms pension plan was his 65th birthday in 
September 2017. 
In August  2017  Mr M spoke to Aegon to talk about taking his pension benefits.  He wanted to 
know what options he had. Aegon gave Mr M the contact details of an annuity provider as it 
no longer sold these. But around two weeks later Mr M spoke to Aegon again. It seems  he 
didnt want to take an annuity  with that provider. 
In October  2017 Mr M complained to Aegon. Briefly, he was unhappy with the benefit  
options it was offering  him. He also felt Aegon wasnt being fair to those living  abroad  like 
him. Mr M was also unhappy  that as he lived overseas, he couldnt communicate  with Aegon 
in a simple way. 
Aegon didnt uphold  the complaint. Again in brief, it said it hadnt done  anything wrong. 
Aegon listed Mr Ms benefit  options and explained  that while it didnt sell annuities itself,  he 
could get one via a separate  provider. It also explained that it couldnt offer Mr M a 
drawdown option for his benefits  because  he wasnt  a UK resident. 
Mr M was unhappy with this response  and he brought his complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into this complaint. She didnt think Aegon had done  anything wrong. In 
summary the adjudicator said there  was nothing to suggest Aegon  was being unhelpful 
because Mr M lived abroad. She also said it was offering Mr M the options it could and was 
abiding by UK tax laws.  
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators view. He gave  us details  of further problems  he said he 
was having with Aegon. These included difficulties with the timing of a partial  lump  sum 
payment and the tax that was deducted from it. Around the same time, Aegon  apologised to 
Mr M for not acknowledging he had an issue with the service  it was providing and for not 
emailing him a settlement letter. As well as the apology, Aegon arranged  to pay Mr M £100 
for this. 
As Mr M hasnt accepted  our adjudicators view, this complaint has been  passed to me for a 
final decision. To be clear, the issues Im dealing with are the benefit options available to 
Mr M because he lives overseas, and the issues he says hes had communicating  with 
Aegon. 
Ref: DRN88711562As I said above, Mr Ms issues with the timing of the partial lump sum payment and the tax 
deducted from it have  already  been looked  at by one of my fellow ombudsmen. Hes issued 
a final decision on these  matters. So my decision will not be dealing  with these matters or 
commenting on them further. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decide not to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
First, I can see Mr M has made  numerous  points in support of his complaint. Im very aware  
that Ive summarised  this complaint in far less detail and in my own words. Im not going to 
respond to every single  point made  by Mr M. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here:  has Aegon done  anything wrong in offering 
Mr M the benefit options it has available to him; and, has he been stopped from 
communicating with Aegon  in a simple way because he lives overseas? 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome. 
Ill first deal with the benefit options  Aegon offered to Mr M. He took out the pension  plan 
around 30 years ago, before he moved abroad. In his original complaint to us, Mr M says he 
would never  have thought  he couldnt get his pension when he reached the age of 65. But 
Im not satisfied he hasnt  been able to get his pension. 
I can see that Aegon sent him regular updates about his pension.  I can see Mr M was in 
communication with Aegon  in 2007 about the international transfer of his pension  benefits. It 
gave him details of a change in the rules for transfer  abroad.  Aegon also listed the criteria for 
such transfers. 
Aegon also sent Mr M regular statements for his pension plan. Ive looked  at the statements 
for the five years from 2013 to 2017.  These all gave  Mr M an illustration of the yearly 
pension he might get from his plan. The statements also made it clear that the amount 
illustrated was dependant, among other  things,  the cost of buying an annuity. 
I can also see Mr M was unhappy that, in his words, his pension  with Aegon  cannot be 
turned into a pension provided by Aegon. He said that while  hed noted  that Aegon  didnt 
sell annuities, it could have shared that with him many years ago. Mr M also said that 
instead of helping to arrange  competitive  annuities,  Aegon  only directed him to one provider 
and offered no other help with annuity  quotes. 
But I dont think Aegon has done wrong here. None of the statements said it would provide 
Mr M with an annuity itself. In fact, Aegon stopped selling  annuities in 2016.  That was a 
commercial decision it was entitled to make. I agree with Mr M that it could  have let him 
know this sooner. But clearly, it couldnt have told him about this many  years ago as the 
decision was only taken  the year before he wanted  to take his pension  benefits. 
In any event. Im not satisfied Mr M has been  caused any detriment by Aegon  not telling him 
in 2016 that it had stopped selling annuities.  I say this for several reasons. Firstly, Mr M was 
Ref: DRN88711563still able to buy an annuity if he wanted  to  just not from Aegon.  It recommended a certain  
annuity provider.  But Aegon also made  it clear  it was important for Mr M to shop around as 
he may have been able to get a higher  retirement income from other  providers. This would 
also have been  the case if Aegon still sold annuities. 
Also, Mr M has since made it clear that he didnt  want  an annuity as the quotes he received 
were, again  in his words,  pathetic. Theres no reason for me to think  that if Aegon was still 
offering annuities, its rates would been significantly better than the quotes Mr M was given.
It seems  Mr Ms preferred  benefit was some kind of drawdown option  one which allowed 
him to draw a monthly pension income while leaving the rest of his pension  pot invested.  But 
Aegon doesnt offer this option to non UK residents. Nor is it required to. So I dont  think it 
has done anything  wrong by not offering this to Mr M. 
Aegon has said this option may be available  if Mr M transferred his pension  pot to another 
provider. It isnt Aegons role to find Mr M such a provider or to check  if such an option is 
available in his circumstances. I can see that all the annual statements Ive looked at 
recommend that if Mr M wanted to look at his available  options he should  speak  to a 
financial adviser. 
I can also see that Aegon sent Mr M several  letters in the 18 months  before  his 65th birthday. 
These letters were about turning his pension  savings  into a retirement income. These letters  
also recommended  that Mr M should  seek financial advice about choosing  the right 
retirement option. 
But Mr M has said that many of the financial advisers he found  didnt have  the required 
knowledge of his situation. Those that did charge  astronomical fees. If Mr M didnt want to 
get financial advice  because he felt the fees were too high,  thats his choice   a choice he is 
perfectly entitled to make.  But that isnt Aegons fault. Nor does it mean  its done  anything 
wrong. 
I can see from the information Mr M has sent to us that he feels very strongly about what  he 
sees as the lack of benefit options available to him. I do empathise  with that strength of 
feeling. Hes had this pension plan for a long time and says hes seen nothing  over the years 
which indicated his options would be limited as he lived overseas. But Im satisfied that 
Aegon consistently told him that if he wanted to look at his options, then he should speak to 
a financial adviser.  It was his choice not to do so. But even if hed done so, the reality  is, his 
options would still be as they are now. 
Ill now turn to Mr Ms issue about  not being  able to communicate with Aegon in a simple 
way. In his complaint form to us, Mr M said he couldnt use the website to communicate with 
Aegon because  he didnt  have a UK post code or phone number. But from the available 
evidence, this seems to relate to the annuity  providers website rather than Aegons.  If thats 
the case, I cant hold Aegon  responsible for how another business website works. 
But even if that isnt the case. I cant see that Mr M has had any trouble at all communicating  
with Aegon  by email. I know hes said its been  difficult changing representatives  with each 
inquiry he makes. But its a business decision for Aegon  to make when deciding  how to 
manage contact with its customers. Aegon has said that given the levels of calls, letters and 
emails it takes in any one business day, it isnt possible to allocate one member of staff as a 
point of contact. I accept this. While Mr M might not be happy  with this, Im not satisfied its 
prevented him from being able to communicate  with Aegon in a simple way. 
Ref: DRN88711564For the reasons  given  above, Im not satisfied Aegon has done  anything wrong in offering 
Mr M the benefit options it did. These  were  the only options available  in his circumstances. 
Nor am I satisfied Mr M has been  unable to communicate  with Aegon in a simple way 
because he lives overseas. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
John Miles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8871156