K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a joint mortgage with BoS in 1997. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered them both against being unable  to work due to accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  The policy cost £17.71 per month and wouldve paid 
a monthly benefit  equivalent to the monthly mortgage repayment for up to 12 months in the 
event of a successful claim.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
BoS hasnt been  able to send us the paperwork from the time. This isnt unusual and its 
understandable in view of the time that has gone by since the sale took place. But where 
there is limited information,  I will make my decision  based on whats more likely to have 
happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what  both parties have told me and 
what we know about these types  of sale.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us they dont  recall being  told the policy  was optional.  I cant be 
certain of what was said during the course of the meeting, it may be the BoS adviser told   
Mr and Mrs B they should take out the policy, but thats different to saying they had to. There 
are some records  on BoS internal systems that show Mr and Mrs B answered some  basic 
questions about  eligibility  for the policy and about their circumstances. So I think  the policy  
was discussed.  And I note the PPI remained in force  for some  time, if Mr and Mrs B had not 
wanted the policy Id expect them to have questioned it at an early stage, but Ive seen no 
evidence they did so.
Weighing everything up I think  its most likely they were made  aware the PPI was optional 
and they chose to take it out. Although after so many years I can understand why Mr and 
Mrs B might not recall  this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was.      
I say this because:
Mr and Mrs B were  not affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.         
For example they didnt  have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered.      
And they werent  in an unusual employment  situation which might not have  been  covered.
Ref: DRN86665532Mrs Bs employers  wouldve paid her sick pay if shed become too unwell to work.  Mrs B was 
entitled to up to six months full pay followed by six months half pay. But this particular policy 
wouldve paid a monthly benefit  in addition to any sick pay, and for up to 12 months. This is 
longer than Mrs Bs full sick pay would last. So I still think Mrs B wouldve found the benefit 
useful if she had become  too unwell to work, particularly if she was unwell for a prolonged 
period.
Mr Bs employer  only paid statutory sick pay which means Mr Bs income  would likely reduce 
significantly and quickly if he became too unwell  to work. So I think  he had a clear need  for 
the cover.
And if Mr or Mrs B lost their job the monthly benefit would mean they could  use any 
redundancy pay for other  living costs. 
Mr and Mrs B did have  some savings. But they chose to keep the savings rather than pay a 
larger deposit on the property. So I think they wanted to keep the savings intact. The PPI 
policy would mean  they didnt  have  to use their savings to pay the monthly mortgage 
repayment if they couldnt work.
Mr and Mrs B have  said they received little information about the policy. I cant know after all 
these years exactly what they were told or given at the time. And its possible the information 
BoS gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose 
to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
In summary,  I think its likely BoS made Mr and Mrs B aware the policy was optional  and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  BoS recommended  was 
right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  Bank  of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8666553