K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the way Virgin Money  plc handled a dispute he raised about a 
payment he made using  his credit card.
background
In June 2018 Mr K was having problems with his car. Hed taken it to a garage near his 
home which had been  unable to fix it. He needed  his car to travel  to where he was working  
and he took the car to another garage in that area Ill refer to as T. Mr K says T didnt repair  
his car, either, but charged him £144  for diagnosing a fault he already knew existed. Mr K 
paid T £144 using  his Virgin Money  credit card. He says he had to pay the money to T to get 
the car back. He then took the car to a third garage that carried out the repair.
Mr K told Virgin Money he wanted  to dispute the payment to T a few days  after hed made  it. 
He didnt hear anything from Virgin Money  about the dispute despite chasing a response 
several times. In September  2018 Virgin Money wrote  to Mr K saying it had refuted  his claim. 
Mr K wasnt  satisfied with this and made a complaint.
Virgin Money upheld  Mr Ks complaint in part. It said it didnt intend to take the claim against 
T any further. But it accepted the service it had provided in responding to Mr Ks emails and 
calls hadnt been  of an acceptable  standard. It offered Mr K £100 compensation for this.
Mr K didnt accept Virgin Moneys offer and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She thought Virgin 
Money had dealt with the dispute in a fair and reasonable manner. She also thought  the offer 
of £100 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt agree with our adjudicators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K was able to dispute the payment to T in two ways. Firstly  by asking Virgin  Money to 
initiate a chargeback  under the credit card scheme and secondly under s75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act.
Banks can raise a chargeback where a customer disputes a payment made on their credit  
card. But it doesnt  give consumers  an automatic right to a refund. The merchant, in this 
case T, can dispute the chargeback and represent  the payment.
Virgin Money raised the chargeback when  Mr K told it he disputed the payment. But T didnt  
agree. It said the chargeback was invalid  because Mr K hadnt  tried to resolve the dispute 
with T, first.
Ref: DRN88819522The effect of s75 is to make Virgin Money liable to compensate Mr K for any breach  of 
contract or misrepresentation by T. Consequently, to bring  a claim under s75, Mr K needs to 
show that T was in breach of its contract with him or made a misrepresentation.
There is clearly  a conflict of evidence between Mr K and T about  the exact terms of the 
contract between them.  Mr K has produced evidence of adverse comments  regarding T on 
social media. But Ive looked at the social media website and there  are also favourable 
comments about T, so Im not persuaded this can be seen as evidence  of Ts breach of its 
contract with Mr K.
I note that Mr K paid T after it had completed  the work it said it had done on his car. I 
appreciate that Mr K says he had to make  the payment  to get his car back. But he knew T 
hadnt completed the repair when  he made  the payment and making  the payment would 
generally be regarded  as an indication he was happy with the work that had been done.
It seems  to me that to reach a decision on whether or not T was in breach of contract  it 
would be necessary to hear oral evidence from both Mr K and T. As T isnt a party to this 
dispute I dont  have any power  to require a representative of T to attend a hearing and give 
evidence. So I think if Mr K wants  to pursue his claim under s75 any further  hell need to do it 
in the courts.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied, apart from the service  issues,  Virgin Money  dealt with 
the chargeback  and the s75 claim fairly and reasonably.
Virgin Money has accepted the customer service it gave Mr K while  it was considering  his 
dispute with T fell below the standard he was entitled to expect and its offered him £100  
compensation for this. I agree Mr K suffered unnecessary trouble and upset as a result of 
having to chase Virgin Money and not receiving  timely replies to his emails or calls.  But I 
think the sum of £100 Virgin Moneys  offered to Mr K is fair and reasonable and Im not 
going to require it to pay a larger amount. I leave  it to Mr K to decide whether or not to 
accept this offer.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Virgin Money plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8881952