K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that NewDay Ltd is holding  him responsible for the borrowing  on a credit  
card account  he says he didnt apply for.
background
The application for the credit card was made on 30 March 2018  and a card and PIN sent out. 
On 18 April 2018 Mr M contacted NewDay to say he had received a PIN notification letter 
and didnt know why. The card had been  used the day before to take out £300 in cash. Mr M 
said he hadnt applied  for the card and had not made the withdrawal.
NewDay didnt accept  that Mr M hadnt  made  the application. It said that it based this on the 
depth of personal  information provided  when the account was opened . It registered a 
default and is pursuing him for the debt which now included charges and interest.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-The mobile phone number and email address used in the application didnt match  the 
ones Mr M provided  to this service.
-The card and PIN were sent out following a request on 30 March  2018 and no 
checks were carried  out by NewDay to verify the identity  of the person making the 
request.
-Mr M had explained  he lived with family members and all post was put into a tray. 
The letter with the PIN had been  opened  and the tab pulled back to reveal  it.
-There was a clear point of compromise  and NewDay hadnt provided evidence  to 
show that Mr M had authorised the withdrawal.
-She said that NewDay should refund all the borrowing and the interest and charges 
applied, remove any information  about this card and payment history reported on his 
credit file and pay him £150  for the distress and inconvenience caused by pursuing 
him for this debt.
NewDay didnt agree. It said that when Mr M reported this in April 2018 he had told it he 
lived with family but not that he had any suspicions  a family member may have been 
involved. It would expect a genuine victim of fraud to maintain  a consistent account. Mr M 
had also not told it that the tab had been pulled back on the letter  to reveal  the PIN. It wasnt 
likely a fraudster would  leave it like this. The fraud team had confirmed that the number he 
gave for his employer  on the application  was genuine and it was possible that NewDay  might 
call that number and it didnt think a fraudster would  provide this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider what I think  is most  likely and I wont  be able to say exactly  what 
happened. Ill be looking at the way in which this account was opened. And taking into 
account the evidence about  how the withdrawal was made.
Our investigator has identified some  discrepancies  in the application but I understand that 
the majority of the information  was that for Mr M including  his home  number. NewDay  has 
not wanted to explain  to this service what verification checks  it made  to confirm it was him 
applying for the card.  I think  it possible that someone close to him would have all this 
information and have been  able to impersonate him.
Ref: DRN80160302NewDay doesnt have  recordings  of its calls with Mr M at the time he reported the fraud. I 
appreciate it doesnt  routinely keep calls beyond 12 months but here Mr M had complained 
and it issued several final response letters  and knew by July 2018 that he was going to be 
referring his complaint to this service.  I have its call note but I cant resolve exactly  what  was 
said and what he was asked. If I was to accept that this was a fraudulent application I dont 
see how Mr Ms explanation could have other than been that someone had looked at the 
PIN. And a suspicion that someone close  to him may have carried  this out could have 
developed over time when hed thought through what happened.  To me the fact that on his 
account a fraudster would leave the envelope for him to see in the first place is odd in itself 
but that has been Mr Ms consistent explanation.
NewDay has confirmed to the investigator  that the card and PIN would have been sent out 
separately within 10 days of the application.  The card was activated online. And there is a 
record on the evening  of 16 April 2018  of an email  from the person  with access  to the 
account saying  that the PIN hadnt been  received. Although another PIN was ordered it 
doesnt seem that this could possibly have been  received by the time of the withdrawal at 
14:10 the next day ( based  on the authorisation log).If this was a withdrawal by a fraudster I 
can only work on the basis that the PIN was soon in that persons possession.  And thats 
consistent with that person taking out all the money  available on the account   the limit being 
£300 - as quickly as possible. 
I need to balance all the evidence in reaching my decision  about what is most likely. That 
doesnt mean its the only explanation. And here there  are two broad possibilities  either    
Mr M applied  for this card and took out the money  or someone close to him did without  his 
knowledge. This is a case where  these are both likely in my view. With that in mind  I take 
into account what I have  said about the verification  of his identity, that there is a plausible 
explanation for someone else taking out this card and that its up to NewDay  to show that not 
only was the withdrawal authenticated using the card and PIN but that Mr M consented to it. 
On balance it hasnt  satisfied me with its evidence in these areas.
For these reasons I find that Mr M shouldnt be held responsible for this card and the related 
borrowing. I agree with the resolution  suggested by the investigator  but clarify that in addition 
as NewDay said it had recorded a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national  fraud  database, that 
this must also be completely removed whether or not the current  marker is still live. The 
award for distress and inconvenience  reflects the collections  activity that Ive seen evidence  
of continuing after Mr M had reported  the fraud.
Ref: DRN80160303my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to:
1)Refund all borrowing and interest and charges and remove  any record  of this account 
being applied  for or held in Mr Ms name.
2)Remove any information about this borrowing in Mr Ms name reported to credit  
reference agencies  and CIFAS.
3)Pay not credit Mr M with £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8016030