K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Virgin  Money  plc overpaid interest on his account and then later 
reclaimed the amount  itd overpaid  him. This resulted in his ISA account having a negative 
balance.
To settle  matters Mr O would like Virgin Money to pay compensation, to acknowledge the 
stress it caused and to change its systems  to prevent this from happening.
background
I recently issue my provisional  conclusions  setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint. I explained  that although  I thought Virgin Money had made a mistake  in the way it 
calculated Mr Os interest I didnt think itd treated him unfairly  because  it put matters right for 
Mr T as I would have expected it to do.
Since issuing my provisional  decision Virgin Money hasnt provided any further  comments  
for my consideration. Mr O has provided  detailed  points  for my consideration for which  I 
thank him. In summary:-
he confirmed he doesnt expect Virgin Money  to change its systems to allow  interest 
to be calculated in real time. But he thinks it would  easy to calculate interest to 
allow for days when  the bank is closed;
he agrees that his ISA account  remained open  but he says this was only because  he 
noticed and quickly  transferred £1.45 to his account;
he doesnt think Virgin Money  apologised; and 
his main point is that had he not noticed  the mistake there  was a very real possibility 
his ISA account wouldve been  closed  and he would have  ended  up paying  additional   
tax on his savings.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Mr O feels very strongly  about  the way he was treated by Virgin Money.  I can 
also see that Mr O was very concerned that his ISA account couldve been  closed  due to it 
not having the required minimum balance.
But it wouldnt be fair for me to require Virgin Money to pay compensation for events that 
might have happened. I can only look at the impact  the mistake  actually had on Mr O. From  
the information Ive seen  Im satisfied that Mr Os ISA account remained open so it didnt  
lose its ISA status and he didnt have to pay additional tax on his savings. I dont  have any 
reason to doubt that this was due to Mr O noticing  the mistake and quickly  paying money 
into his account  to rectify the mistake. But Id expect Mr O to mitigate  his loss  as he did 
here when  he realised the mistake.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont see any reason to depart  from the conclusions  I came to in 
my provisional decision. It remains open to Mr O to accept Virgin Money's offer of £25 
compensation should he wish to do so and which Id expect  Virgin Money  to honour.
Ref: DRN83328702my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part but I do not require  Virgin Money  plc 
to do anything  further for the reasons  I've given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019 .
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83328703Copy extract of provisional decision
complaint
Mr O complains that Virgin Money  pic overpaid interest on his account  and then later reclaimed 
the amount it'd overpaid him. This resulted in his ISA account having a negative  balance.
To settle matters  Mr O would like Virgin Money to pay compensation,  to acknowledge  the stress  it 
caused and to change its systems to prevent this from happening.
background
Mr O had an Easy Access Cash  ISA. He withdrew most of his funds towards the end of 
September 2018  on a Saturday. The next day he withdrew interest  that Virgin  Money had 
credited to his account. But he left a balance  of £1 to ensure his account  remained open. He 
later discovered he had a negative balance of -£0.45. He couldn't understand why so he 
complained to Virgin Money.
Virgin Money didn't uphold  his complaint.  It said his withdrawals were  made over a weekend  so 
its systems  didn't update to show he'd withdrawn his funds until the next working  day. This meant 
Virgin Money overpaid £1.45 in interest which it later recovered from his account.  This resulted  in 
Mr O's ISA account having  a negative balance of -£0.45. Virgin Money  apologised,  refunded 
£1.45 and offered £25 as a gesture of goodwill  -which Mr O declined .
Mr O brought his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator didn't  recommend that the 
complaint should be upheld.
Our adjudicator concluded that Virgin Money had acted fairly. The adjudicator said that Virgin 
Money had calculated interest in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of Mr O's account. 
This resulted in him being paid too much interest and which Virgin Money then recovered  from 
him.
The adjudicator thought Virgin Money had treated Mr O fairly because  it'd reimbursed  him £1.45  and 
it'd offered £25 compensation  which Mr O rejected. Mr O's account remained  open so the 
adjudicator couldn't  see that here had been any impact on Mr O's ISA allowances for the year.
Mr O disagrees with the adjudicators view. He's concerned that Virgin Money says it's done  
nothing wrong -when  he believes  it has. He says Virgin Money calculated interest based on 
what it thought was in his account at the end of the month  and this meant he was paid interest  
he hadn't  yet earned.
The adjudicator explained that even if Virgin Money had done something wrong-  but which  he 
didn't think was the case  here  then compensation  would be awarded based on the impact it'd 
had on Mr O. The adjudicator couldn't see there had been any significant impact  as the issue was 
fixed as soon as he'd brought it to Virgin  Money's attention and it'd refunded the interest that it'd 
overpaid and which it later recovered from him.
Mr O remains unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsmans decision .
my provisional findings
I've considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what's  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service  doesn't regulate financial businesses   thats  the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. This means that I can't tell Virgin Money to change its systems-  for example by asking 
Ref: DRN83328704it to update available balances in real time. But what I can, and have  considered,  is whether  Mr O 
has been treated fairly by Virgin Money and, if not, what impact  this has had on him.
The terms and conditions of Mr O's savings  account  state that interest is calculated  on the 
available money  at the end of each working day. The key product information  document  says 
that monthly interest will be paid on the last day of the month  "and will be available on the next 
working day".
Virgin Money credited Mr O's account with £21.77 interest on 28 September 2018- rather  than the 
last day of the month as stated in the key product  information  document. So I'm persuaded by Mr O's 
argument that this meant interest was credited to his account which he hadn't  yet earned.  So I think  
Virgin Money made a mistake here.
I also think  Mr O shouldn't have been able to withdraw  the interest credited  to his account until 1 
October 2018- in accordance with the key product information document. Because  
Mr O was able to withdraw the interest that had been  credited  to his account prior to this date this is 
what caused  the negative  balance.
But even  though  I've found that Virgin  Money made a mistake, I'm satisfied he's been  
treated fairly  so I don't consider it appropriate to award any compensation.
I say this because Virgin Money has done what I'd expect it to do to put matters right. I can see it 
refunded £1.45 to Mr O- being the amount of overpaid interest  it reclaimed  from his account  and it 
confirmed his ISA status hadn't been impacted.  It also offered £25 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill -which I think is reasonable in the circumstances. It remains open to Mr O to accept Virgin 
Money's offer should he wish to do so. And I'd expect  Virgin  Money  to honour this.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold  this complaint in part but I do not require  Virgin  
Money pic to do anything further for the reasons I've given above.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8332870