K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained Nationwide Building  Society wont refund account transactions  that he 
didnt make in September and October  2017.
background
Mr N opened an account with Nationwide in May 2017 (hed previously  had accounts  with 
Nationwide that had been closed). He got a debit card for his account.  In October he told 
them there were transactions on his account hed not made or authorised.  From 
25 September to 9 October these totalled  £3,676.78. Some of these  were  cash  withdrawals 
or purchases  using  Mr Ns card and PIN whilst some were online transactions.
After investigation,  Nationwide  wouldnt agree to refund the transactions.  Mr N had admitted 
allowing his daughter to use his card and PIN although those transactions werent amongst  
those he disputed. They felt this was enough  to show Mr N had been grossly negligent with 
his card and PIN and had given apparent authority to his daughter  to use his card.  
Nationwide were later more aware of Mr Ns vulnerabilities and had taken  steps to help him 
when using his account.
Mr N was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service. 
After a detailed  investigation, our investigator  felt Mr N had either made these transactions  
himself or allowed someone else to use his card. What he knew about Mr Ns previous 
account usage suggested that the online gambling transactions had been  carried  out by him.  
Mr N disagreed with this. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 20 January 2020. Like our investigator I wasnt  going 
to ask Nationwide to refund Mr N. But taking  Mr Ns health into account, I wanted  to give him 
an opportunity to review  why I was coming  to this conclusion.
Mr N phoned our service to say he didnt  accept the outcome. He had a few points to re-
emphasise:
Id not taken into account how limiting  his mental  health issues were.  He was unable 
to leave home and therefore couldnt  have made the disputed transactions.
Nationwide should have stopped the transactions or obtained  CCTV evidence  to 
show whod made these transactions.
Nationwide had refunded £600 for other disputed transactions. Hed lost a further 
£3,000 but didnt  have  any faith in us being  able to help him.
He couldnt  use or read things on a computer.
Nationwide didnt respond to the provisional decision.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not seen anything  
which has made me reach a different conclusion than I did when writing the provisional 
decision. The following is similar  to my provisional decision for that reason.
Ref: DRN85675972The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  so for 
example whether there  was any gross  negligence in looking after the card and PIN. Ive 
considered this aspect  when  reviewing  this case.  Firstly when we look at whether a bank has 
acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the things  we consider is whether 
the customer made the transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, 
then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
To help me decide what happened, Ive reviewed the evidence provided to us by Mr N, 
including what he originally told Nationwide and their information  about the transactions  and 
how they took place. This also includes what we know about Mr Ns bank account usage 
from previous complaints  hes brought to this service.
Im looking  at the cash machine withdrawals and the online transactions separately.
disputed cash machine withdrawals
The disputed transactions start on 3 October 2017.  Over the next week  there  are seven  
disputed transactions.  Four of these are £500 withdrawals at cash  machines on 3, 4, 8, and 
9 October. These all take place  at the same  cash machine, which  isnt far from Mr N. This is 
also a cash machine Mr N has used previously.
There are also three withdrawals at a local casino for £500,  £210 and £700 on 3 and 5 
October. The latter two on 5 October took place at an early  hour in the morning.
Mr N reported his card lost on 9 October. There were no further attempts made  to withdraw 
cash with the physical card after that date.
On 24 September  before  any of the disputed transactions, Mr N allowed  his two daughters to 
use his debit card and PIN. He very specifically allowed them  to take out £100 each. On that 
day there were four actual cash withdrawals (£140, £200 (plus £1.85 cash  machine fee), 
£100 and £50). There were also four attempts  to withdraw £200 made before the last two 
withdrawals. These were all declined by Nationwide as the daily withdrawal limit had been  
reached on the card. 
Mr N accepts that his daughters took out more than hed allowed them  to withdraw. Its also 
generally accepted that Mr Ns daughters  more  than likely knew  where  he kept his card and 
could have quite  easily recalled his PIN, if they had access to his card.
Mr N has told us his daughters were coming to live with him. Nationwide  has pointed out 
from October onwards  there are child tax credits and child benefit  payments being made into 
Mr Ns account. These  hadnt taken  place historically. This would  support  Mr Ns story.  
Nationwide has therefore concluded that Mr Ns daughters used his card for these disputed 
transactions. Nationwide has suggested that as Mr N had given his card and PIN to his 
daughter previously, he was grossly negligent.  But in fact I can see no evidence   apart from 
supposition  that Mr Ns daughters used his card for these seven disputed transactions  
10 days later. And its clear that Mr N has completely rejected this hypothesis.
Mr N has told us that he thinks someone  whod managed to get his trust  came into his 
house and took his card. As he has complex  health issues,  he tended to keep his card and 
Ref: DRN85675973PIN in close  proximity to each other in his kitchen. He thinks this is how these  transactions  
happened. Hes also told us his health  means  he doesnt get around very much  and has 
limited mobility. Although  hes also told us he drives to his mums. I think  its fair to say some  
of Mr Ns testimony has been contradictory.
His card use historically has also suggested  that he regularly  uses  his card  often for 
contactless transactions at a local supermarket. This is the same place where the cash 
machine for the disputed cash withdrawals is located.
In a review of all the evidence Ive done,  I think its more than likely Mr N made these  
transactions himself.  I say this predominantly  because of the following:
There no evidence his daughters were using his card or were even around at the 
time the card was being used for these disputed transactions.
The locations of the cash machine withdrawals match the use Mr N has made of his 
card previously.
Mr N does get around regularly and is able to use his card independently  (according 
to what I can see from the transaction history), although I note he has disputed  this.
Ive considered Mr Ns evidence that a third party stole his card and used it. The 
usage doesnt support this. As well as withdrawals of cash as soon as the card was 
obtained I would expect to see other purchases  and attempted  card use.
Mr Ns cash  withdrawal limit was £500  a day. All the cash machine withdrawals were 
for that amount. Id have expected  a complete  stranger to have  tried a different 
amount first off as they wouldnt  have known  what Mr Ns withdrawal limit was.
I accept balance checks were  carried out before the first disputed usage  which  is 
what we often see when a thief is using  a card. But there  werent any of these before 
the withdrawals on 8 and 9 October. Id certainly  have  expected  to see balance  
checks if Mr Ns card was being used by a stranger   after a few days of not using it 
 as theyd not have  known what Mr Ns other financial commitments were.  Or what  
he may have used his account for in the interim.
The withdrawals of cash  in the casino were  not in all likelihood done  at a standard 
cash machine. Cash machines in casinos mostly charge  for withdrawals. None of 
these three transactions attracted a fee. Some casinos  have  booths  where  you can 
withdraw cash over your daily withdrawal limit  like the £700  transaction  in all 
likelihood was. They also often use additional ID to make  sure the correct card owner  
is making the withdrawal.  We dont  have any evidence here about what  that may 
have been but I wouldnt be surprised if some  additional ID checks were carried  out. 
This again would  suggest these were done by Mr N. I note Mr N has told us hes not 
been inside  a casino but as I say his evidence  has been contradictory.
There was no attempt  to use the physical card after it was cancelled. If someone  
other than Mr N was using it, Id have  expected  to see this.
disputed online transactions
There are online transactions dating  from 26 September  to 9 October that are disputed. The 
first set are all being carried out with mobile  phone  providers.  £25.02  is disputed  and this 
took place over five different transactions.
Our investigator contacted the retail  outlet behind some of these. Their evidence  confirmed 
they were more likely  carrying out credit  checks into Mr N before deciding whether to provide 
a mobile phone. At the same time someone  signed  up to a credit check  using Mr Ns debit 
card.  
Ref: DRN85675974Then on 29 and 30 September and 9 October  there are a number of transactions carried out 
on online  gambling sites.  Mr N disputed  all of these.
Our investigator contacted all the different gambling sites.  These  confirmed they had 
accounts in Mr Ns name. For at least one of these sites, they also got a copy of Mr Ns 
driving licence  to verify their customer. 
Mr N told us he believed his driving  licence had been stolen  in February 2017 but only after 
we mentioned this site had confirmed theyd accepted it. He also told us he didnt use online 
gambling sites.
However Ive looked at Mr Ns Nationwide account. I can see there are other gambling 
transactions on his account which he hasnt disputed.
Mr N had brought complaints to our service before. At this time Mr N was using a computer 
although he more  recently told us he didnt  use one.
But I can also see large credits to Mr Ns account  from payment schemes operating online 
marketplaces around the same time. Mr N has told us he gets his brother to help sell things 
online. These two payments of £1,086.55 and £1,199.90 get credited just before a lot of the 
large disputed  expenditure (both  online and using the physical card)  takes  place. In fact 
without this money these  transactions  would  have been declined  in all likelihood.
Mr N has told us he believed these transactions were being done by the person who stole  
his card.  I dont think this is likely  for the following reasons.
Firstly Mr N told Nationwide his card was more  likely  stolen in October and perhaps as late 
as 8 October.  Even  if I discount Mr Ns recollection  to allow  for his health issues,  this still 
means a lot of the disputed transactions happened  in September  when  Im sure Mr N still 
had his card.
Mr N had accounts with most of these gambling sites. One of these at least had been 
opened months before the dispute.  They would all have had login requirements to allow 
someone to access these accounts. So an unknown  third party would  have had to know  who 
Mr N used for his gambling  as well as enough login information to access  the sites. This 
would be apart from being  able to access Mr Ns debit card.  This would entail quite a 
detailed fraud.
The other thing  about gambling  websites is that all winnings  are credited back  to the card 
made to carry out the transactions in the first place. This tends to discourage fraud as a 
fraudster can only in certain circumstances get hold of whats  been  won.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I believe Mr N authorised all of the online  transactions  as 
well.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr N. I appreciate he has complex health needs and 
Ive taken these  into account when considering whats happened here. But overall I dont 
think Nationwide did anything wrong  in rejecting Mr Ns fraud  claim.
If Mr N believes  hes had further disputed  transactions   which arent  the ones referred to in 
this decision  he should raise these with Nationwide who will investigate this for him.
Ref: DRN85675975my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ns complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8567597