K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a credit 
card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from August 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Mr G provided  some further  comments  that I will address 
below.
my findings
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G is unhappy that I have suggested his memory  of events might not be clear and 
presumes my comments are based on his age. I would like to assure Mr G that this is not the 
case. Ive reached  that conclusion because I am satisfied from the evidence provided by 
Bank of Scotland that Mr G is most likely to have applied for the PPI by post. As he says he 
applied by phone, I consider that he therefore has no clear recollection  of the sale. I wouldnt 
expect him to remember applying for the card and PPI by post. But this is because the sale 
was twenty years ago and the process  of applying for a credit card isnt normally  very 
memorable, rather than any issue to do with Mr Gs age. 
Mr G has said that Bank of Scotland have provided no evidence that the sale was made by 
post, but that is not the case. As I said in my provisional decision, it has provided  an internal 
screen shot that records the method of sale as Direct  Mail. If the sale had been made by 
phone, then that particular  column on the screen shot would  have denoted that.
Where there isnt much documentary evidence available from the time of a sale, I base my 
decision on the information that we do have and on what I consider is most likely to have 
happened on a balance of probabilities.
Ive thought very carefully about the additional  comments that Mr G has made but, on 
balance, I have not been persuaded  to alter the view I reached in my provisional decision.  It 
follows that I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Ref: DRN85046992Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85046993COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a credit card 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr G took out the card and PPI by completing a postal application form in 1999.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold Mr Gs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr G says that, as far as he can re-collect, the application for the credit  card was conducted by 
phone. Mr G says he was advised that there would be more chance of his credit card application 
being accepted if he took out the PPI.
Mr G has said that it was custom and practice for applications to be made  by phone at the time.  But it 
was also common for Bank of Scotland to send mail outs about credit cards.
Bank of Scotland  no longer has a copy of Mr Gs actual application form, which  isnt surprising given 
how much  time has elapsed since the sale. However,  it does  have some  basic computerised  records 
about the account, including  how it was sold. Bank of Scotland says that Mr G applied  by completing 
an application form and returning it by post. As evidence it has provided  a copy  of an internal 
screenshot, showing  the sales channel  as Direct  Mail. This service  has dealt with a great number of 
complaints about Bank of Scotland credit cards and so we are familiar  with the evidence  that it 
generally provides. Im satisfied that the information about  the sales channel can be relied upon.
Im sure that Mr G has provided his honest recollection  of events. But the sale happened  a long time 
ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Gs recollection  has faded,  especially as applying for a credit 
card isnt usually a particularly memorable occasion. Overall Im persuaded that Mr G is most  likely to 
have applied  for the credit  card by post.
Although Bank  of Scotland no longer has a copy of Mr Gs actual application form,  it has provided a 
copy of the type of application form that would have been in use at the time. The form has a separate 
section for insurance  with Yes and No boxes to either  select or decline the PPI.
Looking at the form,  I think  that Mr G would have understood that he had a choice about taking out 
the policy.  Ive thought about everything that Mr G has said, but on balance I think that Mr G probably 
decided to take out the PPI, knowing that he didnt  have to, even if he no longer remembers doing  so.
As it was a postal sale, there would have been no input from any Bank of Scotland  staff. Therefore  
Bank of Scotland  didnt advise Mr G to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. 
But it did need  to provide him with enough information for him to be able to make an informed choice 
about whether or not the policy was right for him.
Mr Gs employer  would have given him six months full pay, followed by six months  half pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness. But the policy  would  have  paid out in addition to this and potentially for 
Ref: DRN85046994longer than Mr G would  have  received full pay for. Mr G has said that he had a large amount of 
savings at the time, but hes explained that this was because  he was preparing for the cost of moving 
house. Therefore those  savings were earmarked for a particular purpose rather  than just being 
available funds. Regardless of this, having  the policy  would have meant that he could  have retained 
those savings  rather than having to use them to make his credit card repayments.
Mr G has told us about other insurance  cover that he had, but none of these  exactly replicated the 
cover provided  by the credit card PPI. Overall, looking at Mr Gs circumstances at the time,  I think he 
had a need for the policy  and could have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland could have provided more information about  the policy, particularly 
the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of those things. As I think  he had an 
interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him 
to change his mind.
This means  that Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G. But 
Bank of Scotland  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold, Bank of Scotland expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because 
Bank of Scotland  didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the PPI was not mis-sold  Bank of Scotland  plc does  not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Bank of Scotland  plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont  award any 
further compensation. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504699