K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  about  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limiteds decision to decline her 
claim under her employers group income protection insurance policy.
background
Miss B was a member of her employers  group  income  protection insurance policy,  held with 
Aviva. The policy would  pay benefit,  after a waiting period of 26 weeks,  if Miss B was unable 
to perform her occupation because  of illness or injury.
In May 2017, Miss B stopped working because of eczema. In July 2017  she attempted  to 
make a phased return to work but this wasnt successful and in September 2017  she again 
totally stopped  working.  Her employer made a clam under the policy.
Aviva declined the claim on the grounds that there  was insufficient medical evidence to 
support Miss Bs incapacity.
Miss B appealed  and provided  further medical  evidence. However, Aviva continued to 
decline the claim, this time on the grounds that Miss B wasnt  following reasonable medical 
advice and was therefore prolonging her absence from work.
Miss B complained against Avivas  decision.  In June  2018, while awaiting Avivas response,  
she left her employment.
In July 2018, Aviva issued  its final response letter in which  it continued to decline Miss Bs 
claim. It stood by its view that Miss B hadnt  taken reasonable steps to assist her recovery.  It 
said that if she had done so, it believed  she would have been able to return  to work  before 
the end of the waiting  period.
Miss B was unhappy  at Avivas decision. She referred her complaint to us. She considered it 
had wrongly declined her claim  and had treated her in an unprofessional  manner.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should not be upheld. 
My findings  were as follows:
The policy  will pay benefit if Miss B is unable to perform  her occupation throughout the 
waiting period and beyond. Miss B stopped working in May 2017  which  means that the 
waiting period should normally have  ended in November 2017.  However,  Miss B attempted a 
return to work in July 2017 and her employer  carried on paying  her a proportion  of her 
salary, which  was greater  than the benefit she would have received under the policy, until 21 
December 2017.  So it wasnt until this date that Miss B stood to gain under the policy. The 
relevant period is therefore from May 2017 until 21 December 2017. 
Miss B stopped  working because  of the symptoms  of her eczema. Her GP certified her as 
unfit to work.
In July 2017, Miss B had a meeting  with her employers occupational health (OH) service. 
The OH physician thought  Miss B could begin  a gradual return to work, initially working  only 
at home  but eventually  spending more and more  time in the office. Later  that month, her GP 
referred her to see a dermatologist.  
Ref: DRN81287862In late September  2017, Miss B visited her GP. She said she believed  she had returned to 
work too soon and that the stress  of work  was causing her skin condition  to deteriorate. Her 
GP agreed  to re-certify her as unfit to work.
As well as continuing to see her GP, Miss B went on to have a further meeting in October  
2017, and telephone consultations in November 2017 and January 2018, with her 
employers OH physicians. On each occasion,  the OH physician concluded that Miss B was 
unfit to return to work.
Given that both her GP and the OH physicians  considered that Miss B was unfit to work 
throughout the relevant  period, I cant agree with our adjudicator that there is no medical  
evidence to support  her claim. I think there is evidence to suggest  that she was 
incapacitated by her condition,  albeit  that the evidence isnt necessarily strong (it isnt 
obvious that her symptoms would necessarily prevent her working and despite  having been 
absent for a period of over six months,  she hadnt been seen by a specialist).
Aviva, however,  ended  up declining the claim not because it necessarily disputed that 
Miss B was incapacitated but because  it considered  she hadnt followed reasonable medical 
advice to help herself  get better. In particular, she failed to follow  the OH physicians 
recommendation in November  2017  that she should pass  a copy  of his report  to her GP. And 
she failed to attend appointments with a consultant  dermatologist in December 2017 and 
May 2018. It believes that, if it were not for these failings, Miss B would have been able to 
make another graded return to work before the end of the relevant period.
I shall quickly run through this sequence of events.
The OH physician who spoke to Miss B in November  2017 held a diploma in dermatology.  
He thought Miss Bs medication was sub-optimal. He noted  that Miss B was waiting to see a 
dermatologist but in the meantime he proposed  an alternative treatment plan in his report 
and asked that Miss B share this with her GP. 
In December 2017, Miss B was offered a consultation with a dermatologist but she turned it 
down because she said her father  was unavailable to drive her there.  The appointment was 
eventually re-arranged for May 2018.
In January 2018, Miss B met with her GP. She said she mentioned the OH physicians 
November 2017  report to her but that the GP had decided against changes  to her 
medication until shed  seen a consultant dermatologist.
Later in January 2018, the OH physician spoke again with Miss B. He concluded that Miss B 
was still unfit for work but said It is my opinion, that should her medication have been 
optimised since we last spoke that there may have  been a greater degree of improvement.
In May 2018, Aviva  spoke to Miss Bs GP and provided her with the OH report from 
November 2017.  The GP agreed to make a change to Miss Bs medication. However, when 
Aviva spoke to Miss B about a week later,  she still hadnt been to pick up this new 
prescription, blaming  lack of money.
Later in May 2018, Miss B turned down the re-arranged  consultation  with a dermatologist 
because she again said her father was unavailable to drive  her there.
Ref: DRN81287863Given that by December 2017, Miss B had been absent from work for seven  months due to 
her eczema, I am surprised she didnt make more  effort to attend the consultation with the 
dermatologist. She had been  waiting  for this since July 2017. She was still receiving a 
proportion of her salary from her employer  and so the cost of a taxi should not have been an 
issue. I think the failure to attend the appointment undermines Miss Bs case in that it 
suggests she was unwilling  to take all reasonable steps to help her return to work.
Furthermore, I am surprised  that Miss B didnt actively pursue the OHs recommendation to 
share his November 2017 report  with her GP. She showed no urgency in arranging a GP 
appointment and, while  she says she eventually  discussed this with her GP, it appears that 
the GP hadnt  seen the report  until Aviva  shared it with her in May 2017.  At this point, the GP 
agreed to change Miss Bs medication, though  even  then Miss B didnt immediately  obtain  
the new prescription. And while she has cited cost as the reason for this, if she had shared 
the report at the first available  opportunity, the GP may have changed the medication while  
Miss B was still in receipt of salary  from her employer.
Finally, while  I recognise that Miss B may have had a lack of money, I am surprised that she 
didnt prioritise attending the May 2018  consultation with a dermatologist  given that it was 
now nearly a year since her GP had made a referral.
Overall, I think that while the medical  evidence lends some support for Miss Bs claim that 
she was incapacitated by her eczema,  her case is undermined by the fact that she didnt 
take all reasonable steps to improve her situation. And given the borderline  nature of the 
medical evidence,  I think  it is entirely  possible that Miss B would have been able to begin  a 
graded return to work before the end of the relevant period if she had been sufficiently 
motivated and had taken  all reasonable steps.  In view of this, I am minded to conclude  that it 
was fair for Aviva to decline her claim.
Miss B has also raised a complaint about  Avivas handling of the claim. Aviva has pointed 
out that Miss Bs employer was late in notifying it of the claim. Aviva  has acknowledged it 
took too long between  receiving Miss Bs medical  records and coming  to an initial decision 
on her claim, for which it has apologised.  I think that apart from this occasion, however, 
Aviva has generally handled the claim appropriately.  Miss B thinks  that one of Avivas claim 
handlers questioned her aggressively and implied  she was lying.  I have listened to the 
telephone call in question.  I think the claim handler was reasonable and behaved 
professionally; I dont think there were any grounds for Miss B to have taken offence from 
her questioning.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Miss B responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision. She said that Aviva  
hadnt taken into account that her eczema  medication caused her to have blurred vision  
which meant she was unable to read properly. She provided evidence  that in June 2018 her 
optician referred her to an ophthalmologist  and that she eventually  had surgery  to remove 
cataracts in March 2019.
Aviva accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81287864Miss B has drawn attention to problems she was experiencing with her eyesight. However, 
as explained in my provisional decision, the relevant period for assessing Miss Bs ability to 
work was May 2017 to December 2017.  There is no reference to any problems with Miss Bs 
eyesight in the medical  records for this period. She did not mention it to either  her GP or the 
OH physicians. The first indication that there is a potential problem with her eyesight is 
provided by the referral  letter  from her optician in June 2018. This is some six months 
following the end of the relevant period and even  then the letter simply refers to Miss Bs 
reduced visual acuity; it doesnt go so far as to say this meant she was unable to work in an 
office environment.
Im therefore  not persuaded by Miss Bs further submission to change  my view on her 
complaint. I remain of the opinion that, for the reasons stated in my provisional decision, it 
was fair for Aviva to decline her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8128786