K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains National Westminster Bank Plc wont  refund money that was spent using his 
debit card. He says he didnt spend the money.
background
Although there is some disagreement  between the parties, what  is said to have happened 
here is well known to Mr D and to NatWest. So I wont  repeat every  detail and trust both 
Mr D and the bank  will accept the following as a brief summary.
Mr D was abroad  and used his debit  card to draw  some money from an ATM;
He also used  his debit card to pay for a hotel and other goods;
But when Mr D checked  his online banking he noticed some  spending  he didnt recognise 
 so he contacted  NatWest;
He still had his debit card (although the bank put a stop on it  and Mr D was still able to 
use a credit  card while he was away);
The bank said the spending had been authorised by Mr D because its records  showed his 
genuine card had been used and his PIN had been entered correctly  each  time;
So NatWest said it wouldnt refund Mr D the money; and
The bank later gave Mr D notice it was going to close his accounts.
Mr D wasnt happy that NatWest wouldnt give him his money  back. So he contacted us.
One of our investigators  looked into things for Mr D. But she didnt think NatWest should 
refund the money to Mr D either. She concluded  it was most likely Mr D had used his debit 
card and spent the money.
There wasnt any evidence Mr Ds card had been cloned (copied), as NatWests records 
showed his genuine card had been used as the chip embedded in the card was read. And 
the records also showed the PIN had been entered correctly. This was something  known 
only to Mr D.
The sequence of the use of the card showed  there  were transactions Mr D agrees he made 
mixed in with those that he says he didnt make. This would mean  somebody  else would 
happen to be staying at the same hotel as Mr D, get to know his PIN and take, use, and then 
replace the card without Mr D realising  on more than one occasion.
In summary,  the investigator found the sequence  of transactions to be:
one genuine transaction by Mr D;
three he says he didnt make;
one genuine transaction;
five more Mr D says he didnt make;
one genuine transaction;
three further  transactions  Mr D says he didnt  make; and
Ref: DRN80885212one genuine transaction.
Our investigator didnt  think that was very likely.
And in concluding that Mr D had most  likely authorised the spending, the investigator  had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator  he was adamant he hadnt used his debit card.  So 
he asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr D feels quite strongly  about whats happened here. Thats  clear from what  hes 
said to both NatWest  and to our investigator. And I can understand why. Theres  quite a lot 
of money involved.  So Mr Ds bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr D that I agree with the investigator. Indeed,  there isnt a great  
deal I can add to what shes  already  said. I think the investigators set out in some  detail  the 
various things shes  had to consider.
That said,  its important I reassure Mr D that Ive considered his complaint afresh  and 
independently of what the investigator  has done.
Im aware Mr D thinks his card might  have been cloned (copied) when he used it at an ATM. 
I accept thats possible.  Fraudsters have been  known  to attach mechanisms to ATMs, to 
copy information from the magnetic stripe on the back  of cards. But there isnt any evidence 
that cards  like Mr Ds  with chips embedded in them  have been  successfully  cloned.
Ive looked at NatWests records. And they show Mr Ds genuine card was used as the chip 
in it was read  and the PIN was entered correctly (at the first attempt).  Given  that Mr D has 
said the PIN was known  only to him, its difficult to see how somebody else could have spent 
the money.
The timing  of the various transactions on NatWests records isnt always  as helpful as they 
might be. But thats not surprising given that Mr D was abroad and in a very different time 
zone.
Mr D has identified some  spending  using his card that is genuine  including paying for a 
hotel for one night  because  he wasnt able to get back to where he was staying. That 
supports what Mr D says about him still having  his card when he contacts NatWest.  But 
these genuine  transactions happen between times when the card is being  used for spending 
that Mr D says he didnt  make.  That means somebody would:
happen  to be staying at the same hotel as Mr D;
see and remember his PIN (although its unclear when they might  have  been  able to do 
this);
take the card; and
Ref: DRN80885213return it to him  all without Mr D realising.
Like the investigator, I dont think thats very likely.
To demonstrate this, Mr D used  his card to book the hotel for one night. His card was then 
used (Mr D says fraudulently) five times over the next three hours. Then Mr D used it himself 
to buy something at the hotel. Only a few minutes later the card was again used fraudulently.  
And it continued to be used for an hour. All of these transactions were  carried out using 
Mr Ds genuine card and with his PIN being entered correctly. Its not clear  why a fraudster 
would stop using a card when there  were  still funds in Mr Ds account.
There is also some confusion  about when the first disputed transaction took place. At least  
one day before Mr D paid for the hotel, there is use of an ATM that Mr D says he didnt carry 
out. But Mr D says he did use an ATM  one minute  later.
So, like the situation  Ive described  above,  that would mean somebody had got Mr Ds card, 
used it (in this instance to try and withdraw  money and then cancel the transaction) and then 
return the card for Mr D for him to use it immediately afterwards.  I think this points to Mr D 
using the card at the ATM the first (and second) time. But I accept its quite possible hes just 
got mixed up about which  of the uses of his card at the ATM is genuine.
Its not been possible to establish  exactly where Mr Ds card was used for the spending he 
says he didnt make. An organisation with a name  similar to the one involved here seems to 
be based some distance  from where Mr D was staying. But the location  where  a business is 
(legally) based and where it operates can be very different.
Like the investigator, Ive considered carefully  the requirements of the PSRs,  and the 
guidance of the Financial  Conduct Authority, around authorisation of spending. And, on this 
occasion, Im satisfied NatWest can hold Mr D responsible for it.
All of the available evidence points to it being  most  likely that Mr D spent the money himself. 
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But there isnt really any point at which an 
unknown person would have been  able to:
get Mr Ds card;
know (or guess)  his PIN; and
then return the card to him  on more  than one occasion.
I realise Mr D will be disappointed with my decision.  But it brings to an end what  we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with NatWest informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr D 
any further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Ref: DRN80885214Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8088521