K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a finance agreement  he entered into with FirstRand Bank  Limited, 
trading as MotoNovo Finance (MotoNovo) was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr G took receipt of a used car in October 2015. He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with MotoNovo.
He also took out Payment  Protection  Insurance (PPI) with MotoNovo and he says the 
dealership told him the PPI would cover  his payments on his hire purchase  agreement if he 
fell into difficulties. But when Mr G had to cease trading he was disappointed to find that the 
PPI policy  would not cover his ongoing payments to his hire purchase agreement.
He complained to MotoNovo. He said the dealership were acting as their agents and the 
finance agreement  had been mis-sold to him as it was sold with PPI and on the basis  that 
the PPI would pay out if he became  unemployed.
MotoNovo rejected his complaint. They said the finance agreement didnt state that PPI 
would form part of that agreement and that they werent able to evidence  any conversations  
Mr G claimed  hed had with the dealership  where  that sort of agreement had been reached.
So Mr G referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his view. He 
explained that PPI wasnt something  wed normally expect  the dealership to arrange  when  
brokering a finance  agreement for a car. He said it was something an insurance company or 
an insurance broker would usually arrange  separately. He said that in order for him to 
consider that the dealership had acted on MotoNovos behalf, and had misrepresented  the 
finance agreement  because theyd not explained  the PPI properly;  hed have to have 
evidence that the negotiations about  PPI were handled by the dealership in tandem with the 
negotiations about the finance agreement. 
He discussed  the issue with the dealership and they explained that they werent  licensed to 
discuss PPI and they said, for that reason, that they could not have done so. So the 
adjudicator didnt think there was sufficient evidence to suggest that MotoNovo, or the 
dealership acting as MotoNovos agent, had had any negotiations  about PPI at the point of 
sale and he didnt support Mr Gs complaint.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicator  and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr G so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN84967732Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the agreement  should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr G. If it was and if Mr G wasnt told something  that he should have 
been told, and that led him to form a contract  with MotoNovo that he would not otherwise 
have done, Id consider MotoNovo responsible  and Id ask them  to take some action.
Relevant legislation explains that finance providers are liable for what they say and for what  
is said by a credit broker or a supplier (where theres a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement  
as is the case here)  before  the consumer takes  out the credit agreement. So MotoNovo are 
liable for what was said by the dealership when the finance agreement  was negotiated.
Mr G says the dealership  told him that PPI would be provided with the finance agreement  
but Im not persuaded that the PPI was sold with the agreement. I think  its more  likely it was 
sold at some other point  and did not form part of the negotiations about the hire purchase 
arrangement. I say that because:
the dealership  have  explained theyre not licensed to discuss PPI;
whilst  I understand Mr Gs testimony  that he did discuss  it with them when arranging 
his finance agreement, theres no supporting evidence  of this and the dealership  
have denied it;
Mr G has made a parallel complaint about  PPI through  this service and I note he 
explained the PPI was sold to him over the phone. I think its likely the car finance 
was sold at the dealership so this would support  a view that the PPI didnt form part 
of the hire purchase agreement negotiations.
So I dont  think theres sufficient evidence the PPI agreement was discussed in conjunction 
with the hire purchase agreement and I therefore dont think it would be reasonable to tell 
MotoNovo to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8496773