K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited treated him unfairly, when he needed help with 
the repayments due under a conditional sale agreement he has with them.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my provisional conclusions by way of a 
provisional decision, a copy of which is attached, and forms part of this final decision. I also 
explained why I didnt propose  to uphold the complaint or to require Moneybarn  to take any 
further action  to settle this complaint. 
I invited Mr R and Moneybarn to let me have any more  arguments  or evidence they wanted 
me to consider, before  making my final decision. Moneybarn had no further comments to 
add to my provisional decision. Mr R didnt accept my provisional decision and said,  in 
summary:
Hed made several points in his correspondence with us, that hadnt  been 
considered. These points are that he wasnt given the correct missed  payment 
notifications by Moneybarn and they gave  him false information about payments 
taken by direct debit.
Moneybarn terminated  his agreement without warning him and the termination notice 
was sent after it had already happened. And that a manager had admitted guilt, by 
reversing the termination decision.
He wasnt contacted by Moneybarn when  they promised to return  his calls and 
emails. He also says that a repayment plan was cancelled  with no reason, before a 
payment had ever been taken.
Moneybarn ignored a complaint he made  in November  2020 and had told him the 
proceeds from the sale of his car, wouldnt be used to reduce the balance of the loan.
Moneybarn havent treated him fairly and have caused him distress  and anxiety  by 
breaking industry rules.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I realise Mr R will 
be very disappointed, Ive come to the same  conclusion  I set out in my provisional decision, 
for the same reasons.
I acknowledge though, that Mr R has been  dealing with his complaint against Moneybarn,  
since he first agreed a repayment  plan in March 2018, some three years ago. I also agree it 
must have  been  very difficult for him, during this time. But, Id like to reassure Mr R that even 
if I didnt previously mention the points he raised  in September 2019,  I did carefully consider 
them.
In October  2018, Moneybarn wrote to Mr R and apologised that a direct debit wasnt  set up, 
when he arranged a repayment plan earlier in that year. So, I agree with Mr R, where he 
says Moneybarn didnt  take the repayments  as planned. But, I think  Moneybarn treated Mr R 
Ref: DRN88801292fairly, by refunding  the charges that had been applied to his account since March 2018, 
arranging a further repayment plan and allowing him to continue  using the car.
Having considered Moneybarns contact records, I can see they wrote to Mr R frequently  
from March 2018  onwards,  about the arrears built up on his loan account. So, I think  
Moneybarn kept Mr R informed about the balance of his account. And I think  there was an 
onus on Mr R, to have  recognised that he still needed to try to make  payments to 
Moneybarn. 
I can see that Mr R did engage  with Moneybarn, when he told them he was working away  
from his home and about a bonus he was due to receive from his employer. But, the loan 
account statements  dont  show  any payments  from Mr R, from September  2018  onwards. 
So, I dont think Moneybarn have  treated  Mr R unfairly, by allowing him to keep using the car 
for the following two and a half years.
Ive thought about why the first repayment  plan failed in March 2018 and the steps taken  by 
Moneybarn to correct  this. I agree that Moneybarn  acknowledged that they could have 
handled that better and they prevented the termination of the loan agreement  to try and put 
things right. But, I dont  think  they need  to take further steps now.
Moneybarn have recently sent Mr R a letter  explaining his options.  This letter  tells Mr R that 
he is able to voluntarily  terminate his agreement. The letter explains the cost to him, once 
the proceeds from the sale of the car have been  deducted from what  he owes. Mr R says 
Moneybarn have told him the opposite.  
Having looked  closely at the letter, I dont  think Moneybarn have made any threats, to not 
use the proceeds of the sale of the car, to help reduce what  Mr R owes  to them.  There are 
other options available to Mr R, where he can own the car outright. But, that will mean  he 
has to repay  the whole of the loan agreement,  as he was always required to do, when the 
agreement started in March 2017. I dont think that is unfair, given Mr R will then be the legal 
owner of the car. 
I acknowledge where Mr R says he is experiencing distress and anxiety. And I sympathise 
with what hes told us. But, in all the circumstances, I dont think  Moneybarn  have treated 
Mr R unfairly,  where they have asked him to repay  the balance of his loan account. 
Should Mr R choose one of the options  where he still has a responsibility  to repay 
Moneybarn, I remind them of their obligations to treat his financial circumstances positively 
and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons  as well as those set out in more detail in my provisional decision  my 
final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88801293copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R complains that Moneybarn  No. 1 Limited  treated him unfairly,  when he needed help with the 
repayments due under a conditional sale agreement he has with them.
background
In early March 2017,  Mr R signed a conditional  sale agreement with Moneybarn,  which enabled him 
to acquire a used car. Mr R continued to make the monthly payments  due under the agreement over 
the following year, until his bankers had difficulties with the direct debit. At this point, Mr R contacted 
Moneybarn and discussed  a repayment plan, which allowed him to continue to make repayments 
towards the agreement, but also repay any arrears that had built up.
Both Moneybarn and Mr R acknowledge that there were  some  difficulties in setting up the direct debit, 
for the repayment plan. Before these difficulties  could be resolved, Moneybarn wrote to Mr R and said 
that they would terminate the agreement, if payments were not made  towards the agreement.
Mr R complained to Moneybarn in July 2018  and said that they were treating him unfairly.  Over the 
next few months, Mr R arranged  to make two debit card payments to his account,  along with one 
regular monthly repayment.  Moneybarn responded to Mr R complaint  in October  2018 and 
acknowledged that they could have helped  Mr R sooner and made it easier for him to make 
repayments. 
To try and resolve  Mr Rs concerns, Moneybarn  agreed to refund all the fees charged to the account  
since the repayment plan was agreed. They also asked Mr R to contact  them to arrange another plan, 
so the arrears on the conditional sale agreement could be repaid.
Moneybarns notes show that a second repayment plan was agreed in November 2018. But they say 
payments werent made to the account, so they sent a subsequent termination notice to Mr R. After  
discussing with Mr R, Moneybarn  agreed not to terminate the agreement, so long as Mr R resumed 
the repayments.
Mr R complained again to Moneybarn and said that they had caused delays in responding  to him and 
had caused distress by sending him termination notices. Mr R also told Moneybarn  that he would be 
able to repay  some  of the arrears from a bonus he was due to receive  from his employer.  
In April 2019,  Moneybarn  wrote to Mr R with their final response and again acknowledged that they 
hadnt returned some  of his calls. As a gesture  of goodwill,  they offered  a £20 gift voucher  to Mr R. 
Moneybarn also explained  that Mr R hadnt made any repayments since October 2018 and despite 
this, they had allowed him to keep  using  the car. 
A third repayment plan was agreed by Mr R with Moneybarn, but he says it was cancelled before he 
could make a further payment. By this time, Mr R had already brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Rs concerns and found that Moneybarn had tried to treat Mr R fairly, by 
agreeing to repayment plans. They concluded that Mr R hadnt made any payments since September  
2018 and that Moneybarn had apologised  when  they had caused delays.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators findings and said Moneybarn should  have advised him of the 
missed payments and given  him warnings about terminating the agreement. He also said that it was 
Moneybarn who cancelled the repayment plans  and they hadnt answered his emails.  He said they 
kept him waiting on hold, when he tried to call them.
The investigator didnt change  their conclusions and now the case has been referred  to me, to make a 
decision.
Ref: DRN88801294my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Quite some time has passed  since the investigator reached  their conclusions and I acknowledge the 
impact this may have  had, on both Mr R and Moneybarn.
the repayment plan arranged in March  2018
Moneybarns notes from the end of March 2018, show that Mr R called them and spoke about some 
problems hed been having with his bank.  He said the direct debit  for his agreement, hadnt  been 
paid. Mr R made a card payment directly to Moneybarn, but his account was still in arrears. 
Moneybarn arranged a repayment plan, whereby Mr R would pay £9 a month,  in addition to his 
regular monthly payment, in order  to clear the arrears  by September 2018.
I have considered how Moneybarn treated  Mr R here. I accept their letter to Mr R confirming the 
repayment plan, could have  told him the total amount he needed to pay, to service the agreement  and 
the arrears. But, I think the letter was sufficiently clear to tell him they would  collect the regular  
payment, plus an additional  amount to repay the arrears over the next six months.
The statement of Mr Rs account with Moneybarn shows the next payment was made  in July 2018. It 
was around this time Mr R complained  to Moneybarn, that they hadnt taken the payments  they were  
supposed to.
Moneybarn responded in October 2018 and apologised for not taking a new direct debit  instruction in 
March 2018. They also refunded the fees that had been charged  to the account since that date. 
Moneybarn arranged a further repayment plan with Mr R to help him pay down the arrears. Although 
Moneybarn told Mr R that they may terminate the agreement, due to no payments being received, 
they allowed the agreement  to continue and for him to keep  the car.
I agree that Moneybarn took an unreasonable amount of time to get back to Mr R, to answer his 
concerns about the payments he missed. It took them  around three months to reply and I can see 
how this was frustrating and worrying  for him. But, I think Moneybarns response recognised that, and 
sought to help Mr R bring his account back up to date.
Mr R says that Moneybarn didnt tell him about the missed payments on the account.  Between  March 
and October  2018. But, I can see from Moneybarns  records of contact with Mr R, that they did try and 
speak to him on several occasions about his account during this time. I also think there was an onus 
on Mr R to have acknowledged that payments werent  being made  from his bank account.
Moneybarns notes show that Mr R explained to them that he was working away from home during 
2018. So, I can understand why he may have found it difficult to keep an eye on what was happening 
with his accounts. Having considered everything though, I dont think Moneybarn treated  Mr R unfairly  
when his account with them  fell into arrears in 2018.
the termination notice sent to Mr R in November  2018
Mr R made a repayment to his account at the end of September 2018, but missed payments in the 
following two months. Moneybarns records show that they spoke to Mr R about  a repayment plan, at 
the end of October  2018. But, the notes say it was left for Mr R to call them  back  on the same day to 
make a payment,  reinstate the direct debit and discuss his income and expenditure details. 
There isnt a record  of Mr R calling  Moneybarn back or making contact with them. Consequently, in 
early November  2018, Moneybarn sent another termination notice to Mr R. Both Moneybarn and Mr R 
acknowledge that after the termination was sent, they came to an agreement, where by a new 
repayment arrangement was made and Mr R was allowed to keep the car.
Ref: DRN88801295Moneybarn say they attempted to contact Mr R, to let him know the status of his account  throughout  
the final months of 2018. I can see from Moneybarns contact records that regular text messages  and 
emails were sent to Mr R about his account.  But, rather than the arrears  notices prompting contact 
from Mr R, I think it was the termination notices, which  alerted him to the need to come to an 
arrangement with Moneybarn.  
Having considered  everything, I dont think Moneybarn  treated Mr R unfairly in this period. I think they 
made Mr R aware  of the arrears on the account and allowed him to retain  use of his car. This was 
despite the account running with around five months of missed repayments.
Mr R wrote to Moneybarn  in December  2018 and explained  that the threats of termination of his 
agreement were causing him distress. He also said hed be able to repay  the arrears on his account  
over time and by using a bonus payment from his employer. Similar  contact between  Mr R and 
Moneybarn happened  throughout  January 2018, where Mr R said he had difficulties with his bankers 
in making a payment to his account.  
Repayments werent made to Mr Rs account,  although regular messages about the arrears  were sent 
to him. Moneybarn replied  to Mr R about his concerns until in April 2019.  They accepted what Mr R 
had said about the termination messages, but reiterated that he hadnt made  any payments since 
September 2018. Moneybarn explained  that they needed to arrange another  repayment plan and also 
sent Mr R a gift voucher, for the delay in replying to his concerns.
It took Moneybarn nearly five months to get back to Mr R. So, I think Moneybarn took an 
unreasonable amount of time to respond to his concerns,  after he raised them in December  2018.  
But, I dont think they stopped talking  to Mr R about his conditional sale agreement. I can see from 
Moneybarns contact  records that they continued to send Mr R emails and text messages  about  the 
arrears. 
While I understand  why Mr R felt frustrated  with the delay, I think  he was given sufficient information  
by Moneybarn to know that he needed to make payments to his account. I dont think  Moneybarn  
caused confusion, to such an extent that he was unaware  of his responsibilities to talk to them  about  
the arrears and make  the repayments  due under  the agreement. I think Moneybarn showed that they 
wanted to reach an agreement based on Mr Rs financial  circumstances,  so I think they treated  him 
fairly here.
the repayments under  the agreement since April 2019
Moneybarn have provided us with a statement  of Mr Rs agreement, from when  it started in March  
2017. I can see that Mr R last made a repayment  to the agreement  in September  2018, over two 
years ago. I can also see that Moneybarn refunded all the late payment fees charged since early 
2018. 
Over the last year, Moneybarn say they havent pursued Mr R for repayment,  in light of the 
circumstances relating  to the global pandemic. I can see from Moneybarns records that they 
explained this to Mr R, near to the end of 2020. The records also show that theres been little in the 
way of communication between  Moneybarn and Mr R about a further repayment plan.
Ive considered that Mr R still has possession of the car and is able to use it, despite not making 
payments towards the agreement  for a significant period of time. I can see that Moneybarn sent Mr R 
a letter  in January 2021, giving him options  and an outline  of costs, depending  on whether  or not he 
wants to keep  the car.
In all the circumstances, I think Moneybarn  have treated Mr R fairly in the time since April 2019.  I 
think Moneybarn have given  Mr R reasonable options, where he can return  the car, or reinstate the 
repayments towards the agreement.
Ref: DRN88801296Moneybarns overall treatment of Mr R
I agree with Mr R that the repayment  plan in March 2018  could have been clearer  with the total 
amount he was expected to pay. I also agree  that Moneybarn took too long to reply,  on each occasion 
he raised concerns about his agreement with them.
Mr R has explained that he found it frustrating being left on hold when  trying to call Moneybarn. And I 
accept that it must have been distressing for him to have received termination notices,  so soon after 
trying to sort things out.
But, having considered everything thats happened since  the time Mr R started to experience  
difficulties with repayments in March 2018,  I think Moneybarn have treated him fairly.  I think  
Moneybarn have kept Mr R informed about the arrears, allowed him to keep using the car despite not 
receiving repayments and they havent allowed the balance he owes to increase.  
I think  Mr R was aware of his responsibilities under the agreement and that Moneybarn have  given 
him fair and reasonable options, depending on what he chooses to do now. Although I dont think 
Moneybarn need to do anything  further to settle Mr Rs complaint, I remind them,  of their responsibility 
to treat Mr Rs financial circumstances  positively and sympathetically.  
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Mr Rs complaint  in the sense that I dont propose to 
require Moneybarn to take any further action to settle this complaint.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8880129