K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains (on behalf  of herself  and the estate of Mr S) that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  
them payment protection insurance  (PPI).
Mr and Mrs S took out their mortgage  and PPI when Lloyds  was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester. As Lloyds  Bank PLC is responsible  for dealing with their complaint, Ill just refer 
to Lloyds in my decision from now on.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out PPI alongside their joint mortgage in 2005.  This protected  their 
mortgage repayments in the event that Mrs S couldnt work  as a result  of accident, sickness  
or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mrs S mainly  said that our adjudicator  was incorrect to say that Mr S wasnt  working when 
they took out the policy  she says he was, and we havent taken all his additional  income 
into consideration. Mrs S also feels strongly that just because  Mr S never needed to make  a 
claim under the policy this doesnt mean it wasnt mis-sold. Mrs S doesn't  think  the 
adjudicator properly took into account their savings  and the other means  they couldve relied 
on. And she says if Lloyds  had done  this, then it shouldnt have recommended them to take 
out PPI.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
I think  Lloyds  probably did make Mr and Mrs S aware that PPI was optional and they chose 
to have it for Mrs S. 
I say this because,  at the same time as they filled in their mortgage  application,  
Mr and Mrs S also completed a separate application  for PPI  which  I've seen. They  were 
asked to say how much cover they wanted to have and whether they wanted to split the 
policy benefit between  them.  Mr and Mrs S indicated they wanted to set the policy  up just to 
cover Mrs S and they didn't want any of the benefit of the policy to cover  Mr S. This all 
happened a long time ago so its completely understandable that some of these details have 
now been forgotten.  And I cant be sure what  was discussed between  them  and Lloyds at 
the time.  
Mrs S has said they were told they were more likely to get the borrowing approved if they 
took out the PPI. But nothing in the paperwork says that  rather, the mortgage offer simply 
said it was optional. I dont think I can fairly  rely just on her recollection from so many  years 
ago. So, based  on what Ive seen, I find that PPI was added to their mortgage account  when  
Mr and Mrs S chose  to take out PPI for Mrs S.
Ref: DRN85541842Lloyds says it recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs S. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
It doesnt look to me as if PPI was unsuitable given what I know  about Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs S says that Mr S was working at the time  but it looks  like 
shes mistaken about this. The mortgage  paperwork completed at the time shows  that when 
Mr and Mrs S were  applying for their mortgage and the PPI, Mr Ss only source of income 
was Disability Living  Allowance and Incapacity Benefit. Theres a note on the paperwork that 
suggests Mr and Mrs S told Lloyds that when Mr S became  very ill hed had to give up work. 
I can see that Mrs S was in paid employment  at the time. Customers had to be in work  in 
order to be covered under the policy. So Lloyds noted on its fact find paperwork that only 
Mrs S was eligible for the policy.  And I think that Mr and Mrs S were probably made aware of 
that at the time which is why they arranged the cover in Mrs Ss name only.
But Id like to reassure  Mrs S that I've taken carefully into account their joint financial 
circumstances when  thinking about  whether Lloyds PPI recommendation was suitable for 
them. 
Mrs S mentioned being entitled to 6 months  full sick pay followed by 6 months' half pay. The 
policy wouldve covered  Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage  repayments  and paid out some extra 
money on top of this which  couldve  been  used to help with other bills. The policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to any work benefits for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs S was too sick 
to return to work  longer than her full sick pay. Bearing in mind that Mrs S mightve  also had 
some additional  costs if she was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled,  I think  this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time.
I appreciate that Mrs S had been  in her job a long time and she doesn't  feel she had any 
reason to think she faced  risk of unemployment.  But circumstances change and no job can 
be guaranteed  indefinitely.  PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs S 
lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Repeat claims were possible under the policy so it gave Mr and Mrs S long term protection  
for their mortgage. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs S wouldve  always had savings they could rely on if theyd needed 
to make a claim. And having PPI wouldve meant  they could keep their savings intact to 
provide financial  security for the future. 
I think it wouldve probably been difficult for Mr S to maintain the mortgage monthly 
repayments if Mrs S wasnt working  and the only regular income they could depend  on 
getting was his benefit payments. The mortgage was a major financial commitment. Given 
the problems that arise  when mortgage payments arent kept up to date and looking at 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was suitable.  
Ref: DRN85541843Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  There were  some things the policy didnt cover.  But it doesnt look 
as if Mrs S was affected by any of the main  conditions  limiting the policys  benefits. So, 
I dont think having  more information  about  things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected 
Mr and Mrs Ss decision  to take it out to cover Mrs S. And it supports my view that the policy  
couldve been useful  to them that Lloyds  have told us Mrs S made a successful claim under 
it in 2009.
Im not sure what Mr and Mrs S were told about the PPI cost when they applied for it. But 
they seem  to have  been happy to pay for it as they completed an instruction form to their 
bank to cover the cost of the monthly  premiums. And they wouldve been  able to see how 
much PPI would cost them set out in their mortgage  offer. So it seems clear they wanted this 
type of cover and they felt it was affordable for them when they took it out. They paid for the 
policy each month and they couldve  cancelled  it at any time without losing out financially if 
they no longer  wanted to have it or keep on paying  for it.
Its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But, as 
things stand at the moment, overall  I think it unlikely  Mr and Mrs S wouldve made a different 
decision about whether to take out PPI if better  information  had been  provided.
On balance I think they still wouldve taken  out the policy to cover Mrs S. This means I dont 
currently think Mr and Mrs S lost out as a result of any shortcomings  there  may have  been  in 
the way Lloyds sold this PPI. So Im not planning to tell Lloyds to do anything to put things 
right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN85541844my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN8554184