K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mismanaged her current 
account transfer, which led to her suffering  unnecessary  stress  and anxiety. She has been 
represented throughout this matter by her husband, Mr S.
background
In April 2018 Mrs S decided to transfer her current account from Nationwide to an alternative  
bank. The account  switch took place  in mid-April and she used the Current  Account Switch 
Service, which  is designed to ensure the process  completes smoothly  and within seven 
working days. During the switch process, a purchase she made on her Nationwide  debit card 
was debited to her account.  This resulted in an overdrawn balance of £177.62.  Nationwide 
then added charges to the debt and it increased  to £207.56.
Mrs S complained to Nationwide about  its handling  of the account  transfer  process and the 
problems shed experienced. Her complaint was rejected by Nationwide, which said that in 
its view what had happened was unavoidable and it felt it hadnt acted incorrectly  in any way. 
Mrs S believed the debit  should have been  passed  to her new bank for payment. As this 
hadnt happened, and she therefore  still had a debit balance with Nationwide,  Mr S 
attempted to pay this at a local branch. However,  he discovered this wasnt possible as the 
branch was no longer able to access his wifes  account.
Nationwide sent a series of letters  to Mrs S over the next few months, each time advising her 
that her account was overdrawn  and urging her to pay off her debit  balance.  Each letter  
contained the same instructions on how to make  a payment; the methods suggested 
included paying  online and paying in person at a branch. Mr and Mrs S then made a series  
of concerted attempts  to pay the outstanding balance on her account. They say each of 
these attempts was frustrated by Nationwides internal processes. On each occasion  they 
say they followed  the advice contained  in Nationwides  letters.
Nationwide wrote to Mrs S in early  September 2018  advising her she had an unarranged 
overdraft of £207.56. The letter requested immediate  payment and advised her to call a 
central telephone  number  to make the payment.  It also gave the same, incorrect options  
given previously. Mrs S made a further  complaint to Nationwide. Over  the next few weeks  
Nationwide sent further letters to Mrs S, some marked urgent,  urging her to settle her 
account. Each one gave  the same, incorrect options of how to make her payment.
In mid-October Nationwides customer services responded to Mrs Ss second  complaint. It 
apologised for giving her incorrect advice, and awarded her £100 compensation. This was in 
addition to £75 compensation  it had paid in June  in relation to the same  issue.  It also agreed 
to refund the additional charges which had been  applied and said Mrs Ss outstanding  
balance was now £177.62. A few days later, however, the collections department  issued a 
default notice  to Mrs S, saying she owed £277.56.  It warned  legal action may be taken to 
recover the debt and her credit file could be adversely affected.
At the end of October  Mr S successfully paid the outstanding balance  and was advised by a 
member of staff the matter was now concluded. However, despite the assurances given by 
Nationwides customer services department to Mrs S and also to our investigator, the debit 
balance remained on the account and charges continued to be added.  Nationwide sent 
further letters to Mrs S demanding payment in November and December, and in each case 
the same  incorrect methods of payment were suggested. This matter  was finally concluded  
Ref: DRN89273372in late December 2018, more than eight  months after Mrs S transferred her bank account 
from Nationwide.
Mrs S says the mistakes  Nationwide  made  and the incorrect advice  it repeatedly gave has 
led to her suffering  anxiety and depression. She says she also had panic attacks.  She says 
the issue dominated  her life for many months, causing her sleepless nights and impacting 
her entire family. She feels she should receive £1,000 compensation.
Our investigator felt Nationwide had adequately compensated Mrs S for the errors it had 
made. However, he recommended it should pay an additional £50 compensation  for the 
further error  it made in November, when it sent another letter incorrectly  chasing payment. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy with our investigators  assessment and so the matter was referred to me 
for a decision.
In my provisional decision of 25 April 2019,  I said:
Nationwide has accepted that it made a series  of mistakes in this case  and before the matter  
was reported to us it made compensation awards amounting  to £175. Therefore the only 
matter I need to decide upon is whether the compensation already paid is adequate  and if 
not, what an appropriate award  would  be.
My view was that Nationwide could have quickly resolved the issue when it was first raised 
back in April 2018. However, due to its internal  processes  and poor communication  it failed 
to do so. Id listened to the phone recordings and examined the bank statements and letters 
in this case. In my opinion these demonstrated  that Nationwide adopted an uncoordinated 
approach to this matter  throughout.  Id looked  carefully at the sequence of events which 
occurred between 18 April when the original debit card purchase was made, and 10 
December when Nationwide sent its final letter wrongfully chasing Mrs S for money it had 
already told her she no longer owed.
To summarise: during this period Nationwide sent nine letters containing  inaccurate  
information and advice. Mr and Mrs S were  forced  to make two formal  complaints and 
repeated telephone calls to try to resolve this matter, all of which were unsuccessful. When 
Mr S first attempted to pay online the payment  was rejected  and in a subsequent attempt 
the money he paid in was transferred to his wifes new account, rather  than being used to 
pay the outstanding balance. And each time Mr and Mrs S attended a Nationwide branch  to 
resolve this matter  which they say they did many times  they were  unsuccessful.
I was struck in particular  by a call made  by Mr S in early October during which hes clearly 
extremely frustrated. When he asks the question How do I pay? he is told by the adviser 
shes not prepared  to discuss the matter  further  and that shes  unable to comment  on 
something she knows nothing about. She goes on to tell him she wont  make any further 
comment and to wait for the ombudsman. Even  when a senior customer  services  manager 
became involved  in November, further mistakes were made and more  letters  chasing  
payment were sent.
I concluded this entire  episode  had a significant impact on Mrs S. In reviewing the file I 
recognised her extreme frustration and increasing  anger at Nationwides  apparent inability to 
resolve what was really a straightforward problem. I therefore thought  a compensation award  
of £500 would be fair and reasonable in this case.  This sum would also take into account Mr 
and Mrs Ss out of pocket  expenses, which couldnt be accurately itemised,  and which were 
Ref: DRN89273373incurred when they visited various Nationwide  branches when attempting  to resolve this 
issue.
the response to my provisional decision
Nationwide didnt have any further  comments.  However,  before  my provisional  decision  
was issued,  it had agreed  to pay the additional  £325  compensation  I proposed,  to bring  
the total to £500.    
Mr S didnt  agree.  He said his wife should  receive  a separate,  additional  payment  in 
respect  of travel  costs  incurred  (he has previously  said that between  them  they visited  23 
branches  to try to repay  their outstanding  debt  and in the process  had incurred  
expenses  of around  £150).  He also thought  I had failed  to impose  a meaningful  penalty  
on Nationwide  for its conduct.
Mr S also said that my provisional  decision  hadnt  fully taken  account  of the trouble  and 
upset  his wife had endured   describing  the experience  as mental  torture,  which  had 
resulted  in her suffering  very significant  distress.  He says  I should  have  asked  him for 
evidence  of this rather  than just finding  that none  had been  supplied   and in any event,  
that its perfectly  obvious  theyve  been  mentally  scarred  by this.   
He believed  Nationwide  had acted  dishonestly,  as it had originally  not supplied  some  of 
the recordings  of phone  conversations  which  had taken  place   only providing  them  when  
they were  approached  by me. And he urged  me to listen  to recordings  of phone  
conversations  hed had with our investigator,  during  which  he first suggested  Nationwide  
had failed  to forward  all the relevant  information  it held to us.   
my findings
Ive re-considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered again  my 
provisional  findings in light of Mr Ss response  to it.
The reason  Ive included the claim for expenses  within the overall award  is because  its not 
possible to accurately quantify the amount of the expenses incurred. In addition,  any such  
award I make must be reasonable.  I note that Mr and Mrs S chose  to visit 23 Nationwide 
branches whilst trying to resolve this problem and that each time they received  the same, or 
a similar  response. In my view the number of branches they chose to visit was 
disproportionate (despite the seriousness  of the situation)  as they knew,  or ought 
reasonably to have  known,  after visiting the first two or three that they werent going to 
resolve their problem by this method.  So I dont  think  its appropriate  to make a separate or 
higher award  for expenses. The victim of wrongdoing still has a legal duty to mitigate their 
losses, which includes not incurring unreasonable  or unnecessary costs in trying to remedy 
the wrong. 
Mr S says the award  Ive proposed fails to penalise Nationwide for its conduct  in this matter.  
That is correct. Im not able to make an award  which punishes a business because were  not 
a regulator. Our statutory  role is limited to putting right the consequences of wrongdoing 
which are reasonably foreseeable and not too remote. So we arent able to punish  or deter 
when making awards for compensation. 
Ref: DRN89273374In respect of the amount  of the award Im making,  I still believe compensation of £500 to be 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  I recognise that this issue impacted significantly 
on Mrs S  and that it took longer to resolve than was reasonable. Ive taken this into 
account when  making  the compensation award   which is why its very much at the higher 
end of the spectrum for distress and inconvenience awards of this type.  I have accepted 
Mr Ss evidence  at face value and given him and his wife the benefit of any doubt. But 
ultimately, its for the parties  to decide what expert or other evidence they wish to submit.  
And my only point with regard to medical  evidence  was to illustrate the difference between  
awards for distress and inconvenience  and potentially higher awards for legally-recognised 
personal injuries (such as post-traumatic  stress  disorder) where  independent medical 
evidence would be required. 
Finally, on the subject of the additional  phone calls which  Mr S would like me to listen to, I 
am satisfied  Ive had the opportunity to consider all the necessary and relevant information in 
this matter to enable me to reach  a decision which is fair and reasonable  and proportionate 
to the amounts at stake. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and before, I uphold this complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society and I require it to pay a total of £500 in compensation to Mrs S (less the 
£175 which has already been  paid).  
I also require Nationwide  to remove any adverse  entries from Mrs Ss credit file.
Mrs S should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between her and Nationwide as to whether  the offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after 
rejection of it has been communicated.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before 17 June 2019.
Jon Speed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8927337