K820x#14complaint
Mrs S through her solicitor complains that Mortgages Plc applied excessive charges to her 
account. Mrs S would like these charges to be refunded with interest and an apology.
background
Mrs S had a mortgage with Mortgages Plc and was in arrears over several years. As a result  
of the arrears Mortgages Plc raised  numerous charges. In September  2007 Mrs S redeemed 
the mortgage but believes that the arrears charges were excessive.
Following a letter from Mrs Ss representative  Mortgages Plc reviewed her account for the 
past six years. It responded saying that because of the arrears,  it raised  a number of 
charges including arrears  management charges, home visit costs  and other  charges. It felt 
that these charges had been applied appropriately but was willing to refund any arrears 
management fee raised in a month where  Mrs S made a payment that was equal  to or in 
excess of her contractual monthly payment. So, Mortgages Plc offered to refund £50. It also 
said that in an earlier letter  of 20 March 2015  it had offered to refund three other arrears 
management charges  and that offer was still open.
Our investigator felt that she could look at any charges  between  2012 and the date of 
redemption as this was within the six year period form when the complaint was made. She 
also felt that she couldnt  deal with the charges that had been discussed  in the letter  of 
March 2015 as Mrs S didnt bring  a complaint to this service within  6 months of that date.  
Our investigator felt that the level of charges was a true reflection  of the actions that 
Mortgage Plc had taken  and didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld. Mrs Ss 
representative disagreed and requested a review of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S since  2012 suffered  financial difficulties and fell into arrears  on her mortgage. Both 
Mrs S and her husband were ill for long periods.  The Department for Work and Pensions 
paid the mortgage but this fell below the contractual monthly payments. So, the arrears 
worsened each  month and Mrs S was worse  off financially.
Mortgages Plc are expected to react positively  and sympathetically to Mrs S. I have seen the 
contact notes on this account. There are 80 pages  from 2012.  Its clear from the content and 
volume of those notes  that Mortgages Plc took this obligation seriously and reviewed  the 
account on a monthly  basis  and sometimes  several  times a month. These  were  not just 
formal reviews but geared towards  finding  a solution  to the arrears  issue.  Mrs S was in a 
very difficult situation and clearly Mortgages  Plc had to handle the calls to Mrs S sensitively 
and to work with Mrs S through this difficult period. 
Mrs Ss representative makes the point that payments  were  being made every month from 
the DWP but this wouldnt solve the problem of the arrears and wasnt  part of an 
arrangement aimed at solving that problem.  Because  of the arrears Mrs Ss financial position 
was deteriorating  each month. So, I believe that it was reasonable for Mortgages Plc to try 
and work  with Mrs S to try and come  to a solution  of the arrears problem. 
Ref: DRN81607622Unfortunately this involved a level of work by Mortgages Plc staff that wouldnt be necessary 
if the account was running smoothly.  Mortgage  Plc is entitled to charge for that extra work in 
the form of these charges. The level of the individual charges appears reasonable in 
comparison with other lenders fees and given  the volume of work that was done on this 
account I cant fairly say that they are excessive. For the above reasons I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8160762