K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about how Amtrust Europe  Limited  dealt with his boiler and central  heating  
breakdown insurance  claim. My references to Amtrust include its agents.
Mr Cs wife, who Ill refer to as Mrs C, represents  Mr C in his complaint to Amtrust  and us.
background
On 24 November 2017 Mrs C called Amtrust as her and Mr Cs boiler wasnt  working. The 
insurance policy is in Mr Cs sole name. Amtrust accepted the claim  and its engineer 
attended. He said a new ballcock valve was needed  in the tank and the system and pipe 
were potentially blocked. The engineer managed  to get the central  heating  to work and 
recommended Mr C call a plumber.
A plumber  wasnt able to attend the property  for several weeks.  On 11 December Mrs C 
noticed the loft above  the kitchen  was hot and humid with mould growing on the walls and 
the floors  damp. Amtrust sent another engineer on 12 December. He wasnt  able to find the 
cause of the problem and again said a plumber should be called as the system needed 
cleaning.
On 13 December another Amtrust engineer attended and said the system needed cleaning 
urgently as the kitchen ceiling could fall in.
On 15 December Mr Cs plumber found  that the problem was a leak in the pipe leading  from 
the boiler under the kitchen floor causing hot air to rise into the loft. The plumber charged  
£133 for the repair.
Mr C complained to Amtrust.  It offered  to pay for the plumbers cost but not for any of the 
damage to the loft or the items  in it. 
Mr C complained to us. He hadnt  received any payment from Amtrust despite  chasing it. 
Also, he wants Amtrust  to pay compensation for the stress the situation  caused him and his 
family and for Amtrust to pay the cost of repairing the damage to his property.
Our investigator thought Amtrust should  pay the reasonable  costs of repairing the damage 
subject to quotes and evidence provided by Mr C and £250 compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. He said Amtrust should  have reasonably been able to identify the fault and if 
it had done so on the 24 November the damage wouldnt have occurred.
Amtrust doesnt agree and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said its engineer  did find a 
possible problem with the same pipework that caused the actual problem and told Mr C to 
get a plumber. If hed got a plumber sooner the damage would have been much less.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN89300522I understand Amtrust  has now paid Mr C the £133  for the plumbers costs,  as it agreed, so 
I dont need to consider that matter.
Amtrust hasnt disputed that the defective pipe is part of the central  heating  system but has 
said the problem  was likely a system defect so not covered by the policy.  Even if I agreed 
that was correct, the important issue isnt whether the repair  of the fault should be covered 
by the policy.  The issue is whether  Amtrust should have diagnosed the problem so that Mr C 
could know the situation and act accordingly.
Amtrust should act with reasonable care and skill when providing  the contract of insurance.  It 
failed to find the problem over several  visits whereas Mr C says the plumber was able to find 
the cause of the problem  within 10 minutes.  The repair  costs  of £133 arent high and 
supports that no extensive trace and/or repair work  were required to find and fix the problem.
Amtrust says it had no access to the pipe leaking under the floor and steam  was going  into 
cavity wall where it had no access.  But Ive seen  no reason why it wouldnt have been given 
access if it had asked  Mr C. He says the pipe was easily accessible, under  a floor board 
secured by a couple of nails. 
The policy doesnt  say theres no cover for access to pipes; the policy  exclusion/limitation 
says Amtrust may charge  for work required to gain access to your system if it is built into the 
fabric of your property. This includes but it not limited to, pipes buried in walls or floors. So 
under the policy  and practically Amtrust could have accessed the pipe.
Amtrust also says that when its engineer  attended on 24 November it did correctly  identify 
the fault as the likely cause of the leak was a blockage in the central  heating  pipework. The 
work report says possible  issue with chocked  pipework as f&e (feed and expansion)  tank 
water is very dirty, customer getting  plumber to rectify'.
But even if the same pipework was involved  Amtrusts diagnosis isnt the same  as saying 
theres a leak in the pipe. Mr C says theres  been  no further problems since  the pipe leak 
was repaired.  So the evidence is that the leak was the cause of the damage  to the loft, not 
any blockage. 
Overall, I think Amtrust failed to find the cause of the problem when it should  have  
reasonably done so. If it had found  the problem I understand Amtrust would have likely 
carried out a temporary  repair and instructed Mr C to call a plumber to do a permanent  
repair. Even if Amtrust wouldnt have done  a temporary repair  under the policy Mr C would 
have known the problem was urgent and a plumber was needed straightaway. 
I think the fair outcome is for Amtrust  to be liable for the damage caused by the leak.
Mrs C says she was in the loft a few days after 24 November  2017 to remove Christmas 
decorations and noticed no damage.  On 11 December she went to the loft to put away  
boxes, saw the damage and called Amtrust straightaway. Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Cs 
evidence so Im satisfied the damage  took place between 24 November 2017 and the 
plumbers visit on 15 December 2017. I havent  seen any evidence from Amtrusts engineer 
that damage was present when he attended  on 24 November.
There was a delay  in a plumber attending,  although  Amtrust had recommended  a plumber 
for a different  reason.  Mr C says the plumber wasnt able to attend due to high demand  and 
as the heating was working  and Amtrust didn't  say it was urgent  he had no reason  to try to 
Ref: DRN89300523find another plumber  more quickly.  When Amtrust did say the system clean was urgent Mr C 
got a plumber within two days.  
So I think its fair that Amtrust is responsible  for all the damage caused by the leak and must 
pay the reasonable cost to repair the damage.
I understand Mr C hasnt had the damage  repaired yet. Ive seen the photos he sent to 
Amtrust but it's not clear  whether those show all the damage. He will need to provide 
evidence of all the damage and quotes for the repair work  to Amtrust. If the parties cant  
agree what  are reasonable costs for Amtrust to pay then ultimately Mr C can make  a 
separate complaint to us on that matter.
I can only award compensation  for the policyholder's  distress  and inconvenience, which is  
Mr C. Mrs C has dealt  with all the issues on the matter and shed detailed the stress its 
caused her, particularly being told her kitchen  ceiling could collapse just before Christmas, 
when the problem ought to have been  resolved on 24 November. Shes also detailed the 
distress the whole situation caused  to her family.  Sentimental items in the loft have been  
damaged that cant be replaced. 
I can take into account the effect  of Mrs Cs and the familys distress and inconvenience  on 
Mr C and I dont doubt he's been  affected. Amtrust should pay him £250 for his distress and 
inconvenience. Mrs C on his behalf agrees that amount and Amtrust hasnt made any 
comments about our investigators  recommendation for that amount. On the information  
I have £250 is reasonable compensation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
pay the reasonable costs of repairing the damage to Mr Cs property subject to Mr C 
providing it with evidence of the damage  and repair quotes, and
pay £250 in compensation to Mr C for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8930052