K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy for a high purchase agreement  in 2003. Mr S paid for the PPI with 
a regular monthly premium, which didnt  attract  interest. It covered his payments in case  he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ss PPI policy was not mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Arnold Clark was a separate company to the one that Mr S took out the hire purchase 
agreement with. I can see they gave him an application form for PPI, which set out its cost 
separately to the cost of the loan itself  rather than as something that was necessarily 
included, for instance.  There  were  two options  to choose from: one to take PPI and one to 
turn it down. Mr S signed specifically to buy the policy, and he did this separately to applying  
for the hire purchase agreement itself.  He also set up a separate  direct debit for PPI.
Mr S said he wasnt aware he took out PPI. But the very first thing on the form, in its largest 
print, was that it was an application  for the policy.  While it did have some  relevant details 
about the credit itself,  the bulk of the form had details about the PPI, Mr Ss details, and a 
declaration for the PPI. And I do have to point  out that Mr S had a responsibility to read what  
he was signing.  It also looks like Mr S was given a summary of the cover so he could decide 
whether he wanted  PPI, and after the sale he was sent a welcome letter  that thanked him for 
applying for it and included the insurance certificate.
I appreciate that when  Mr S cleared his loan, he didnt cancel the PPI policy.  But given the 
evidence that he agreed to the PPI, I think its likely that he just forgot  he had it after time 
had passed  which is understandable, since buying  insurance isnt often memorable.
Mr S pointed to a decision about a different customers case, and I understand why hes 
done that. But we look at each case on its own particular merits, circumstances and 
evidence. And our decisions dont set a binding precedent. In the particular circumstances of 
Mr Ss case, I think its most likely  that he wouldve been aware he had a choice about  
buying PPI, and chose to take it at the time  even if, understandably, he no longer 
remembers doing so after so long.
Ref: DRN88761842Ive checked whether  Mr S was eligible for the PPI policy. I can see that he was  for 
example, he fit the age, residency, and work  requirements. Mr S pointed  out that he hadnt 
been working for six months, but that was only a requirement before starting an 
unemployment claim  it wasnt part of the eligibility conditions.
Arnold Clark didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so they didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. They did have  to give Mr S clear  information  about the PPI.
The cost of the policy was shown clearly  on the PPI application. So I think Mr S wouldve 
understood how much he would need  to pay for it. 
It is possible that Arnold  Clark  couldve given Mr S clearer information about the main things 
the policy wouldnt cover. As I mentioned above, Mr S needed  to have been working for six 
months before he could  claim for unemployment, and at the time of the sale he hadnt  been 
working that long.  But the policy was there to cover things the customer didnt know about  at 
the time of sale, so it excluded unemployment  claims in the first three months anyway. So 
Mr S wouldve  had to wait in any case, and by the time the three month  period  was up it 
wasnt much  longer before he fit the six month  requirement  bearing in mind this is in the 
context of a loan that was supposed  to run for several years. At the time of the sale,  Mr S 
declared that he wasnt aware  of any unemployment  in the near future. And Mr S wasnt  
affected by any of the other exclusions or limitations. So overall, I dont think  that better 
information about the exclusions  was likely  to have changed his mind  about buying PPI.
So for those reasons, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold.
When Mr S first complained, Arnold Clark didnt find a record of his policy  and incorrectly told 
him he didnt have one. He then sent them his insurance details,  and they dealt with his 
complaint. Arnold Clark have apologised for their initial mistake,  and I think thats  sufficient  
while I understand this will have potentially been a frustrating setback for Mr S, I cant  see 
that he has suffered  any material losses because of their error.
Lastly, Mr S carried on paying for PPI after he cleared his finance. The administrators have 
offered to refund his extra  payments, less an administration fee, if he can show  them when 
he finished the hire purchase agreement. If there  are any issues  with this, Mr S would need 
to make a separate complaint about the administrator,  as they ran his policy  Arnold Clark 
only sold it and werent responsible for the administration  afterwards.
my final decision
While I know this will disappoint Mr S, I dont uphold  this complaint, for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8876184