K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1995. Ms L says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her the PPI.
Ms L took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms L hasnt said much  about the time that PPI was sold to her  so Ive considered  
whether FICL gave  her a choice  in taking out the PPI  and I think that it did. FICL has 
provided a copy of Ms Ls store  card application,  and I can see that the PPI is presented 
as optional, and has been selected  with a tick. Ms L has then signed the application, 
agreeing to the information on it. So I think FICL made it clear  that Ms L didnt have  to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this as it was so long ago.
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Ms L so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Ms L got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said, including what  shes said about having existing 
benefits through her work she couldve  used  to make repayments,  and that she was unlikely 
to be made  redundant. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of her existing cover  and for 
longer than Ms L wouldve  received  full sick pay for, and PPI, like most insurance, is there to 
protect against unknown events. So these  points dont change  my decision, and for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ref: DRN87270172Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8727017