K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy about charges applied to an investment he holds with J.P. Morgan Trustee 
& Administration Services Limited.  He is concerned about the level, transparency  and impact  
the charges have had on his investment and says he would have invested elsewhere  had he 
have known about this sooner.
background
Mr C began investing in a fund JP Morgan now manage in 1994. In January 2018, the 
second EU Markets  in Financial Instruments Directive, otherwise known as MiFID  II, and the 
Packaged Retail and Insurance-based  Investment Products Regulation (PRIIPs) took effect  
in the UK. The legislation was far reaching, but one of the requirements relevant here was 
that any costs or charges  associated  with investing needed to be clearly set out. 
For this reason, JP Morgan had to begin disclosing the charges Mr Cs investment was 
exposed to  such as the buying and selling of underlying assets within  his fund as well as 
other things  like the service and management.  When Mr C looked at his annual report he 
was surprised to see how high the charges were,  especially given he hadnt known about  
these before. He also thought hed been  overcharged given a disparity  between  the 1.35% 
charge quoted online and the 1.93% that he was charged.  
Unhappy about  this, Mr C got in touch  with JP Morgan. He wanted  to know whether hed 
been overcharged and what the charges  had been  in previous years.  He also queried  the 
fact that JP Morgan  had switched his share class to a fund with lower  charges  the timing of 
which he thought  was rather suspicious.
JP Morgan  explained that the different charges follow different calculations  and take different 
elements into consideration  but that the charge noted on his statement, 1.93%, was 
correct. They also said they couldnt give him a personalised breakdown of previous years 
charges as there was no requirement  to report in this way. However, theyd have been along 
the lines of the charges noted  in the fund literature. They also explained  that his share  class  
was switched to comply with a FCA review. 
Mr C remained  unhappy with this and asked for our help. One of our investigators looked 
into what had happened, but she didnt think JP Morgan had done anything  wrong.  She 
understood why JP Morgan werent able to provide the historical information Mr C wanted 
and thought the timing of compliance with the FCAs review  was coincidental.  
Mr C didnt think it was unreasonable to have  asked for historical charges  especially for the 
last six or so years  and he didnt think the explanation given about the different charges 
was clear. He also wanted to know  more about  the share class switch.  
Our investigator was able to share fund fact sheets from the last six years with Mr C so he 
could see what the charges  were at fund level each  month. She also clarified  the FCA 
review wasnt  about  JP Morgan in particular, rather it had an industry wide focus  on asset 
managers and JP Morgan  made  some changes  accordingly. 
But Mr C remained  unhappy. He asked why, after not disclosing them for years,  did 
JP Morgan  suddenly clearly display  the charges. And he still didnt feel he had clarity around 
the different  charges quoted. He also didnt agree JP Morgans  share class  switch was 
Ref: DRN83695572coincidental and asked that whatever the FCA said to JP Morgan was revealed.  So as no 
agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The EU rules that came  into effect  in the UK in January 2018 required JP Morgan to change 
a number of things  including how they reported to Mr C. Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs 
March 2019 statement which  reported  on January 2018 to January 2019. The covering letter  
said:
You will also see additional information  included in your statement regarding the 
costs and charges  associated with your account  in 2018. It is important to note that 
you have always incurred  these, however  with the introduction of MiFID  II we are 
now obliged  to disclose  these to you. If you have any questions, please call our UK-
based Investor Services team.
The charges  incurred were set out on page four and explained further on page  five. Within 
these pages, various  excerpts explained  that JP Morgan were now required to provide  an 
annual breakdown of the costs and charges, but that these had always been applied  to the 
investment. Mr C incurred ongoing  costs and transaction costs. Ongoing  costs of 1.33% 
were said to be paid to JP Morgan for services provided to Mr C as their client. Transaction 
costs of 0.60% were  related  to transactions performed by the investment firm or other 
parties. 
Its important to note that the charges disclosed on the statement were not new charges  
these, or similar, were always associated with Mr Cs fund. But JP Morgan didnt have to 
report them  in the way they are required to now. This doesnt mean they did anything wrong 
before, instead,  they are adhering to new regulations  as they evolve.  
From what  I have  seen, the charges are quite usual and will always  vary from asset 
manager to asset manager. I appreciate Mr C thinks the charges were  too high  but this 
isnt something we would involve ourselves with. Lower charges of course sound more  
appealing, but they dont necessarily mean a fund will perform better as a result.  Regardless  
of how much the charges were, it appears  JP Morgan  did what they needed to do in order to 
follow the reporting requirements for Mr Cs account. 
Mr C has asked to see what these charges have historically been, at least  for the last six 
years. But as there was no requirement  to disclose the breakdowns in this way before, this is 
not something JP Morgan have readily  available to share with him now. Our investigator  
shared fund fact sheets  for the last six years with him, and he will get an idea of the ongoing 
servicing charges  from those. But I am satisfied JP Morgan do not need to do anything 
further here as the regulations were not retrospective. 
Mr C has also raised concerns that hes been charged more  than what  JP Morgan have 
advertised the cost will be. But as they have explained, the reason for this is to do with a 
difference in what  the numbers represent. The advertised charges are based  on an average 
of what had been charged over the last three  years. Whereas the 1.93% disclosed to Mr C is 
what he paid between  January 2018  and January 2019. 
Ref: DRN83695573There are also different requirements  for different documents  an example being  that a key 
investor information document is governed by different  rules  and doesnt have to disclose 
transaction costs.  So while I appreciate Mr Cs concern around the accuracy of the 
application of charges  and fair disclosure, I think whats  been  shared with him is sufficient 
and that further  confusion  or questions are likely  the result of a complex  wider  regulatory 
framework. 
Mr Cs fund was switched  to a lower charging share  class. I can appreciate  his suspicion 
around this given the timing of the disclosure and his subsequent complaint. But again, from 
what I have seen this was another case of JP Morgan ensuring  they were  working  to meet  
regulatory requirements. As our investigator explained, the FCAs Asset  Management 
Market Study reviewed a number of things  price  competition being  one. 
One of the changes involved  asset managers  being  able to convert investors  share classes 
to cheaper, but otherwise  identical, classes of the same fund  something that had 
previously required consent from each individual. JP Morgan therefore moved Mr C to 
B class shares, meaning his overalls  costs fell. So while  the timing of this concerned him, Im 
satisfied as to the reasons why it was done  and that it was in his best interests overall.  
So from all that I have  seen, Mr Cs investment has always incurred costs and charges but 
only since MiFID  II have JP Morgan had to disclose them  in this way. All investors  in Mr Cs 
fund pay very similar  charges, and these  are reflected in the daily share price. I cant  see 
JP Morgan  has done anything  wrong here, so I wont  be asking them to do anything  
differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 2 July 2020.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8369557