K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC, trading as Tesco Bank has incorrectly  
charged her a cash transaction fee.
Background
Mrs Bs Tesco credit  card account  was linked to another account  she held with a company I 
will call C. She says she was charged a cash transaction fee by Tesco when she used her 
account to make a payment to an investment company  I will call H. Mrs B says she didnt 
notice the fee at the time but has been charged  interest as a result which is unfair.
Mrs B says she is aware that C changed the way in which it reported merchant codes to 
Tesco but she wasnt charged the transaction  fee in the month  prior.  She says Tesco  should  
have told her about the change and would like the transaction  fee and interest refunded  to 
her.
Tesco says certain  transactions such as this have  always been classed as cash  transactions  
and so liable  for a cash transaction  fee. It says changes made by C have meant it can now 
correctly identify these  sorts of transactions and so hasnt made a mistake  here.  Tesco says 
the account terms and conditions  allow it charge a fee for these types of transactions. It has 
paid a gesture  of goodwill  payment to Mrs B.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought Tesco  hadnt made a mistake  or 
acted unfairly. The investigator thought the account terms and conditions allowed Tesco to 
make a charge  for these  sorts of transactions.
Mrs B didnt accept that view and said in summary  that Tesco told her that no fee would  
apply for these sorts of transactions. 
I asked both sides for further information.  In summary I asked Tesco  for details of any calls 
between it and Mrs B about  this issue. 
Tesco says it doesnt have details of any contact  between it and Mrs B about the issue  she 
has raised. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons. I realise Mrs B will be disappointed 
by my decision.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions and the additional terms and conditions  
which I think Mrs B would have agreed to when the credit card account  was opened. Having 
done so Im satisfied  that Tesco is entitled to charge  a cash  transaction fee in certain  
circumstances such as in this case where a payment is made  to an investment company 
Ref: DRN84850532like H. So in those circumstances I dont  think Tesco  has made a mistake  or acted unfairly  
by charging Mrs B for the payment to H.
I appreciate that Tesco didnt  charge such a fee in August 2018 but has reasonably 
explained why it didnt do so. I dont think that it follows  that Mrs B should have assumed that 
a future  charge  would  not be made as the problem appeared to be with the information 
supplied by C and not through any fault of Tesco. 
I also appreciate that Mrs B says Tesco was spoken to about this issue  but was given 
incorrect information. Tesco says there  wasnt any such contact and Mrs B hasnt  provided  
me with any further  details of when that conversation took place or for example any evidence 
from a telephone provider about  it. So in those circumstances  I cant be sure that such a call 
took place or what if any discussions took place. In any event I think the terms and 
conditions are clear about this issue. 
Overall Im satisfied that Tesco hasnt  made  a mistake or acted unfairly.  I dont think it 
matters what C is now telling its customers about this issue as that is not something Tesco 
can reasonably  comment  on. For those  reasons  I cant fairly order Tesco  to refund  the fees 
or any interest charged.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8485053