K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about dental  treatment she paid for with finance from PayBreak  Limited  
(PB).
background
Miss B says the finance for her dental treatment was arranged  in November 2016. She says 
dental work was carried out by a dental practice that Ill call Business A. And she says she 
had several appointments with Business A between November  2016 and October  2017  at 
which various dental work was undertaken. 
Miss B also says she was unhappy  with the work  carried  out by Business  A and with the 
service it gave her. So, Miss B says she wants PB to cancel her finance agreement.
PB says it acknowledges Miss Bs concerns  about the customer service  she received from 
Business A, but it says it wouldnt  cancel a finance agreement based  on perceived poor 
customer service.
Our investigator thought Miss Bs complaint shouldnt  be upheld. 
Miss B disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said she doesnt believe she was 
handled with diligence  and care as a customer.  She said she wasnt  kept well informed 
about what was going on. And she says her experience trying to raise  an initial complaint 
with Business A was handled very poorly  and not within its specified timescale.
So, the matters  been referred  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
My decision  relates only to the dental  treatment that was provided  to Miss B with a loan from 
PB, as it had no responsibility  for any treatment she received for which  it didnt provide 
finance.
As PB gave Miss B a loan for some  of her dental treatment, it was responsible for any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation  by Business  A in carrying  out this treatment.
Ive looked carefully  at the information  Miss Bs given  us about her dental treatment. But I 
havent seen anything to lead me to conclude the treatment wasnt  carried  out with 
reasonable care and skill or that Business A misrepresented any aspect  of the service  it 
provided to her.
I see Miss Bs particularly concerned about  the customer service she received from 
Business A, notably in relation to its handling of her complaint. And this is reflected in her 
comments in response  to the investigators  opinion. 
Ref: DRN81642882Ive sympathy for Miss B, but this is a matter between her and Business A. It isnt something  
for which I can hold PB responsible as her finance provider.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Miss Bs complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against  PayBreak Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN8164288