K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains about errors that she says Curtis  Banks Limited  (CB) made with
respect to her pension  since  2016.  This includes the incorrect  sale of holdings, incorrect 
deduction of tax on pension payments, errors with invoices and lack of clarity with respect to 
pension payments. She says this has delayed pension payments and caused financial  loss. 
Furthermore fees were  increased and have been incurred with respect to transferring her 
pension to another pension provider. She also believes that her complaint has not been 
treated or addressed  properly  by CB.
background 
Mrs Bs husband also has a similar complaint and I will consider that separately. Mrs B has 
acted for both Mr B and herself  in respect  of their complaints.
Mrs B originally held a SIPP in respect  of non-protected rights (M0305) and a SIPP for 
protected rights (MP0637). An error  occurred in 2016 when Mrs B wished to amalgamate the 
funds into one SIPP. CB incorrectly encashed  the funds in the SIPP account. It then upheld 
a complaint in respect of that error.
A further  complaint was made in 2017  when Mrs B requested that she be paid an income 
from her drawdown plan in line with the income received from a tenant of a property held in 
the SIPP. CB did not uphold this complaint.
A further  complaint was made in 2018  about the delay  in transferring Mrs Bs SIPP  to 
another provider.  CB upheld this complaint. It later made an offer of redress  in respect  of the 
errors that had occurred  since 2016.  Mrs B did not accept this offer.  
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by an investigator. The 
investigator considered  the issue of the transfer of the protected rights  plan to the non-
protected rights plan in 2016.   As CB agreed it had made  an error, she considered  what it 
had done to put matters right. She felt that CB had put matters right by calculating and 
paying any difference in pricing  of the investments sold and the dealing costs. 
She also felt that CB did not act incorrectly in applying an emergency tax code  to income 
withdrawals and paying the income  set out on the applicable form (rather than the actual  
rental income received).  
In terms of any delay  in transfer of Mrs Bs SIPP, she felt that the properties  held within it 
were transferred within a reasonable  period of time.  She noted that in terms of the other 
difficulties in transfer CB had offered to waive fees and pay an additional  compensation 
payment. She felt that, over time,  CB had offered to waive  fees of over £4,000  and pay 
further sums  for any inconvenience caused. She felt this was a reasonable resolution  in the 
circumstances.
Mrs B did not agree.  She didnt agree  that CB had acted correctly  when transferring the 
SIPP or in administering the property  transfer. In particular, she didnt believe that cash was 
transferred in good time. The entire transfer should have taken place by April but this did not 
happen under several months  later. She queries why she is still receiving  payments into her 
SIPP from CB if her SIPP has been  transferred. She said that because  of the cumulative 
mistakes and errors made  by CB over time she felt she had to transfer as she had no 
confidence in CBs  ability  to manage  her SIPP. This would not have had to happen if it had 
provided appropriate service. 
Ref: DRN82189172Mrs B disagrees that extra solicitors  costs in respect of the transfer were caused  by her 
choice of solicitor. She believes  the fees were  less than a CB panel solicitors  fees.  She says 
that the reason she claims a refund of the solicitors fees is that she wouldnt have had to 
transfer if CB had managed her SIPP  properly.  Also, the fees were  higher because CB held 
up the transfers and she provided  correspondence from her solicitors  which  she felt 
evidenced that. She provided a breakdown of those  fees. 
She indicated that the £875 CB had offered for the distress caused was acceptable but she 
did also require that all fees be reimbursed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The matters  that Mrs B has referred  to span a number of years and relate  to multiple errors 
that Mrs B says CB has made.  I have  considered  that but will concentrate in this decision on 
what I believe are the material issues. I will not necessary address every  point that had been 
made over the years.
Overall, I would say that, after considering the evidence,  it is apparent  that CB (or 
businesses CB has acquired) has made  errors over time, which I appreciate  would have 
caused Mrs B upset and inconvenience. I have considered what is fair to redress in the 
context of what CB has offered to put matters right.
I note that Mrs B has said that the sum offered by CB for the distress caused is acceptable. 
But she would like the total fees incurred  by the SIPP transfer be refunded or paid. In the 
main these are the legal fees incurred  which Mrs B says amount to around  £5,000.  
I have noted that CB acknowledged  there had been some  issues with the SIPP transfer,  
including property transfer. It agreed  to waive the following fees:
Transfer Out Fee                        £250
Non Panel Solicitor  Fee               £200 per property
Property Transfer Fee                 £600 per property
In specie Portfolio  Transfer  Fee   £100
This is a significant amount of fees which would ordinarily be incurred. Furthermore,  
significant legal fees would ordinarily  be incurred on transfer (for example, the standard fee 
for a transfer of a property is a substantial  part of the fees Mrs B claims)  albeit I recognise 
Mrs Bs submission  that they were higher in this case because of CBs actions  actions 
which, at least some extent, CB has recognised. Given that background I believe that CBs 
waiving of these  fees is fair redress in this situation,  notwithstanding that Mrs B submits  that 
she and her husband should not have needed to transfer at all.   
In that respect,  I do not seek to minimise the errors that have been made over several years.  
But I have to consider  if they were so material that Mrs B had no reasonable course  of action 
other than to transfer  thereby incurring all the transfer fees.  I appreciate Mrs Bs view, but I 
do not believe the errors have been  to the extent that transfer was necessarily required - so 
as to incur all the fees. Transferring was a decision for Mrs B to take and I can appreciate  
why she took that decision. But it was not necessitated by CBs  actions and I dont believe all 
Ref: DRN82189173the fees should be waived  as a result. What has been offered or waived so far is reasonable 
recompense.    
In terms of the transfer between the SIPPs MP0637 and M0305 I agree with the investigator  
that the evidence would  suggest that CB fairly addressed this at the time. I also agree with 
her findings  as to the tax code  I dont believe that CB made  an error in this respect  bearing  
in mind that it used  an emergency tax code in in the specific circumstances. I do not believe  
that caused a loss in any event. In addition I dont  believe the evidence suggests  that CB 
was incorrect to pay income which did not match the rental  income received by the SIPP  
bearing in mind the income request forms it had at the time.   
In summary,  having considered all the evidence,  I agree that the sums CB has agreed to 
waive or pay over time are a fair resolution to this complaint. 
my final decision
CB has agreed to waive or pay sums in respect of Mrs Bs complaints that I believe are fair 
in the circumstances. I therefore do not uphold the complaint or make any award.  If any 
sums have  not been paid to Mrs B she can contact CB direct  to arrange payment or inform  
the investigator and she will inform CB of that.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8218917