K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains that the overdraft charges applied to her account by Lloyds Bank  PLC were 
excessive and unfair.  
background
Mrs P had a current account with Lloyds for some  19 years up until it was closed in June 
2012. In July 2018 Mrs P complained to Lloyds about the charges that had been applied to 
her account  over a number of years when she had exceeded her agreed  overdraft limit. She 
said they were extortionate. 
In its final response letter  on 9 July Lloyds said that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
allowed it to limit the time in which bank charges could be contested, so it would only 
consider fees applied  in the last six years.  As Mrs Ps account  had closed on 6 June 2012 it 
did not uphold  the complaint. 
Mrs P thought this was unfair and brought  her complaint to this service.  She provided  emails 
as evidence that she had complained to Lloyds in January 2010  and May 2011. On that 
basis Lloyds agreed  that the adjudicator could look into the charges applied.
The adjudicator said that current account charges  cannot be challenged on the basis that 
they are unfair or too high. She also found that Lloyds had applied the charges correctly to 
the account and had responded sympathetically to Mrs Ps financial situation. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our rules, which we are required by law to follow, say we cant normally deal with a 
complaint it its referred to us more than six years  after the event complained of; or, if later, 
more than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware or ought  
reasonably to have  become aware  that they had cause for complaint. 
Mrs Ps bank  account was closed  in June 2012. Im satisfied with the evidence Mrs P has 
provided that she complained to Lloyds in 2010 and May 2011 and that this fell within  six 
years. As Lloyds  could not provide evidence that her complaint was concluded by the 
production of a final response letter I am able to look into the merits of Mrs Ps complaint 
from January 2004 to the complaint date of May 2011. 
I will have to disappoint Mrs P, however, as I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further. 
We dont normally look at the fairness  of the level of fees charged  by banks. This is because  
the Supreme Court  has said the amount of any fees cant be challenged simply because a 
customer thinks they are too high.  But I can look at whether the charges  have  been  applied 
in line with the account terms  and conditions. 
As the adjudicator has explained the terms and conditions for Mrs Ps account are no longer 
available but its unlikely they differ materially from more recent versions with respect to 
Ref: DRN87945852charges. These terms confirm that charges will be added  if the account  goes into an 
unauthorised overdraft. 
I have studied  bank statements from 2004  to 2011 and cross referenced them with contact 
notes which  detail interactions between Mrs P and Lloyds  during this time. Im satisfied the 
charges have been applied correctly.
Its clear that on some  occasions Mrs P indicated she was in some financial difficulty and 
towards the end of the period the proportion of payments going out of the account servicing 
loans had increased. Banks are required to respond  to a customers financial difficulties 
positively and sympathetically. But they are not obliged to refund or suspend  charges or take 
any specific action. 
Mrs P said that Lloyds was more  than happy for her to refinance her loans and then fall into 
an overdraft position  and then again  refinance. She said this happened time after time until it 
got to a crucial  point.  She also said every time she called for an overdraft and loan they just 
used to say yes and this got her further and further  into debt. 
In 2004 Mrs P asked  for an increase in her overdraft. Lloyds advised her they couldnt do 
that but referred her to a branch for a full account  review. Mrs Ps agreed overdraft limit was 
£3,000 and she had exceeded  that. Its not clear to me if she visited  a branch  but in 
September she called  in an income  and expenditure assessment and her debt was 
consolidated with a loan repayment of £760  per month. Her overdraft limit was raised to 
£3,820 in the short term and then a few weeks later reduced down to £100. 
In June 2005 Lloyds waived returned  a direct debit  charge. But during 2005 to mid 2006 Mrs 
P appears  to be in control  of her account,  either in credit or within  her small overdraft limit. 
In August  2006  Mrs P asked Lloyds for a payment holiday for her loan. Lloyds advised  she 
could reduce her existing  loan payments down to £348 following an income and expenses 
evaluation with a temporary overdraft increase to £860. This was back down to £100 by 
November. During 2007  to mid 2008  Mrs P again remains either in credit  or within  her 
overdraft limit. 
During this period I notice there  is an increase in other loan and credit  card payments. 
In November 2008 Mrs P asked for another payment holiday and a further income and 
expenditure evaluation was done  to determine if the loan payment could be paid. Lloyds did 
not offer to refinance  her loan at this point  because Mrs P advised the bank she was starting  
a new job with a salary increase. 
The overdraft limit was increased to £450.  I cant say for certain  why this was but perhaps 
due to good account management. Mrs P used  the full amount immediately. 
In February 2009  Mrs P asked for a payment holiday  as she said she might struggle to make  
the April loan payment.  Her agreed  overdraft  limit had decreased  to £380 and then had risen 
to £657 some weeks later. Lloyds declined and advised  that as this situation had been going  
on since November she should  have another income and expenditure review. The contact  
notes indicate  that Mrs P refused to do this so Lloyds set a decreasing overdraft  limit. 
Mrs P stayed within the limit and often right up to the limit. This indicates  to me that she was 
monitoring her account closely. 
Ref: DRN87945853Lloyds agreed  a payment holiday when Mrs P said there was a delay in the salary  for her 
new job but assured  the bank that she would be able to make  payments. 
By October  2008  the overdraft  limit was £73 but Mrs P was struggling to keep within that 
limit. I notice at this time that Mrs P started making  payments for payday loans. In November 
and December Lloyds  waived charges as gestures of goodwill.  
In 2010 its clear to me that Mrs P struggled  to keep her account within the agreed  overdraft  
limit. In May the limit was £225 and her balance  exceeded this limit and was £670  
overdrawn. In June the agreed overdraft had reduced further to £100 and the balance  was 
£337overdrawn. 
Lloyds refused Mrs Ps requests for a chequebook  twice in June because  the account  was in 
unarranged overdraft. But I also noticed  that Mrs P continued to write cheques  against the 
account despite the fact they would be likely to be returned. In July Lloyds applied a block on 
her debit card. 
From July 2010 to April 2011 Mrs Ps account  was significantly  overdrawn. Lloyds agreed to 
increase the agreed limit and in July it registered Mrs P for its free text service. This was 
possibly to allow Mrs P to keep better control of payments. During  this time a number of 
direct debits and cheques were returned so Mrs P was incurring charges. And the number of 
payday loans  Mrs P had increased. In April 2011 her overdraft was £5,390. In May Lloyds 
suggested moving her account to the customer debt recovery  department in order to stop 
charges. 
Throughout the period of 2004 to 2011 Mrs P received an income into her account. 
I consider that during this time Lloyds was very responsive to Mrs P when she asked for 
help. Mrs P feels that consolidating loans pushed  her further  into debt but Im satisfied 
Lloyds carried out appropriate income  and expenditure checks and did so in an effort  to help 
Mrs P. It refunded  some  charges. It turned  down  requests for a new chequebook and it put a 
block on Mrs Ps bank  card. It also reduced Mrs Ps overdraft facility on a number of 
occasions including at least once gradually.  Mrs P had a number of regular payments 
coming out of her account and it wouldve been  her responsibility to monitor  these to make  
sure there was enough money in the account  for these payments and for any cheques she 
wrote. It would be unfair of me to hold Lloyds responsible for Mrs Ps spending decisions. 
Im satisfied that Lloyds  applied  its charges  appropriately and that it was positive and 
sympathetic in response to Mrs Ps financial situation. So I wont be asking it to do anything  
further. 
Ref: DRN87945854my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8794585