K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs K complain  that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited (LV) mis-sold
their car insurance as Mr S wasnt recorded  as the policyholder.  They said this meant Mr S
wasnt insured to drive  other cars and LV should have advised them of the implications of
this.
Mr S and Mrs K are represented on this complaint, for ease of reading Ill refer to the actions
of the representative as those of Mr S and Mrs K.
background
Mrs Ks daughter (Miss K) took out a car insurance  policy for Mrs K with LV, with Mrs K as
policyholder and Mr S as the main driver.  This policy was not renewed and instead a new
policy was taken out by Mrs K. That policy  was again set up with Mrs K as the policyholder
and Mr S as the main  driver. Mrs K then bought  another policy with LV a few months later to
insure another of her cars. A contract of insurance  dated a few years  after the sale shows
that Mr S was a named  driver on this policy. Both her policies were renewed, generally  on an
annual basis. Due to the time which  has passed since  the sales  and renewals, LV is unable
to confirm whether  they renewed automatically or following a phone call.
Mr S was driving Miss Ks car when he was involved in an accident with a cyclist. Miss K
was also insured with LV, but Mr S wasnt a named driver on Miss Ks policy. LV said Mr S
wasnt insured to drive  Miss Ks car under either  Miss K or Mrs Ks policies. Mr S said that he
thought under Mrs Ks policies he was insured to drive other peoples cars. LV said those
policies allowed the policyholder to drive other cars,  and as Mr S wasnt the policyholder, he
wasnt covered for driving other cars on those policies.
Mr S didnt agree with LV and complained. He said Mrs K shouldnt have been the
policyholder. He said he should  have  been  the policyholder on one of Mrs Ks policies and
not just the main driver. He also said when Mrs K and Miss K were sold their car insurance
policies, that LV should have advised  them of the implications of Mr S not being a
policyholder.
Mr S also said LV wasnt clear about  the cover under the policies for driving other cars. He
said the policy wording  suggested he was covered to drive other cars. Because of this Mr S
said the policy wording  was unclear and unfair. He also said LV should have offered a multi
car insurance policy to cover all three of the familys cars.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 29 July 2020 where I addressed  Mr Ss
points about being made the policyholder and explained that as the policies were likely sold
on a non-advised  basis,  I didnt  think LV had done  anything wrong. I also explained that due
to the length of time since the sales and renewals there is very little information available.
Because of this I had to base my decision on what evidence  there  is from Mr S, Mrs K and
LV. This is mainly post-sale documentation  and verbal testimonies. From the information I do
have I also explained  that I thought the term for driving other cars was clear  and that I didnt
think LV had done anything wrong  by not offering a multicar policy,  as it didnt exist when
these policies were  sold.
LV responded to say it didnt have anything further to add. Mr S and Mrs K responded and
didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary  they said:
Ref: DRN86725542LV were obliged to provide sufficient  information in a clear fair and not misleading
way to enable  Mr S and Mrs K to make an informed  decision.
LV are required to treat customers fairly.
EU directives, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rulings,  statute and protocol 
regulate that LV should have
provided a listing of the various alternative cover available to Mrs K and the purpose
and effect of each  alternative.  LV failed on renewal  to provide  sufficient  information  in
a clear, fair and non-misleading  way. This was a systemic breach of the fairness
requirement under the FCAs Directive for Fair Treatment of Customers.
It makes  no insurance sense to make  Mrs K the policyholder twice and Mr S only a
named driver.
The renewal process by phone was flawed  as English is Mrs Ks second  language.
LV should have  explained the consequences  of the cover sought, in an explanatory
Q&A attachment.
Mr S and Mrs K referred to certain  provisions  in the Insurance  Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (ICOBS), in the FCA Handbook,  publications from the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) and FCA and comments by
the Financial Services  Consumer Panel.
That while the policy said the policyholder could drive other cars this was interpreted
as other  cars outside of the household.
Mr S and Mrs K have referred to sections of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and
referred to sections in the act on transparency and fairness. They  have stated that
unfair or hidden terms arent allowed and that failure  to facilitate informed consent is
tantamount to hiding terms and conditions of unfairness.
Mr S and Mrs K say my decision failed to attach weight to the statutory requirement
of fairness and is a misapplication of the rules imposed  by LVs regulator, directives,
ICOBS and statute.
The provisional decision focuses  on the non-advisory basis  of insurance  while  failing
to apply the consequences  of informed consent and common sense. At no point were
alternatives spelled out and as such the decision is irrational and not within the band
of a reasonable response.
The provisional decision fails to address the issue of fairness and transparency. It is
effectively a mere  opinion as to the meaning of fairness without analysis of the
existing framework of legislation, directives  and regulation.
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint on 16 February 2021 where  I said:
Mr S and Mrs K have  made a number  of detailed points. Were an informal  dispute 
resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  In deciding this complaint Ive 
focused on what I consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every  
issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr S and Mrs K. Rather it reflects the 
informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it.
In this decision I will only be considering the two policies sold to Mrs K. This is because
these policies are the ones  covering  the cars Mr S and Mrs K are allowed to drive. In
particular, the main complaint point focuses on the first policy  sold which  is in Mrs Ks name
with Mr S as the main driver. I understand Miss K may wish to complain about  policies sold
to her by LV too, if she does so she would need to do that under a separate  complaint.
Ref: DRN86725543The policies complained about  were  sold almost ten years ago, because  of that there is very
little information  about the sales and renewals which means its unclear what  actually
happened. What is clear  though is from the information available  it looks likely the policies
were originally sold over the phone  and then renewed either automatically or following a
phone call on a non-advised basis. I say this because LV have said it only sells policies on a
non-advised basis. This means LV had to provide  sufficient information in a clear,  fair and
not mis-leading  way for Mrs K to decide whether the policies were suitable for her. Ive
therefore looked at the sales practices LV had at the time for telephone sales and renewals.
LVs call guides prompt the advisor  to go through the main terms and conditions of the
policy. LV has said this would include going  through who was listed on the policy, who would
be the main driver and any named drivers. Its not clear if this would have included who was
covered to drive  other cars, but even if this wasnt explained the documentation sent
afterwards covered this.
Mr S and Mrs K have said English isnt Mrs Ks first language, so, they said she wouldnt
have understood  what  was being explained. Ive looked at LVs internal notes and Ive not
seen enough to persuade  me that LV were aware Mrs K didnt understand what  she was
being told. So, I dont think LV have done  anything wrong in relation to this. Mrs K also
hasnt provided  any testimony about  the actual  sales themselves or what  she did
understand. Without having her testimony about  how the policies  were  sold, what  was
discussed and what she understood its difficult to determine whether LV did anything  wrong.
Also considering how long ago these policies were sold its reasonable for LV not to have
more detailed records.
Mrs K has said though that she should have been given a list of alternative cover. Even  if LV
had done this, it would have been  based on the information provided  at the time, which
included Mrs K being the owner and registered keeper of the car. So, I dont think  it would
have been fair and reasonable to expect LV to have explained that there  were  other options
in making Mr S the policyholder  to allow him to drive other cars. I also noted  Mr S and Mrs K
have said the premiums being identical or almost identical  is a reason to claim the policy
was mis-sold. However, I have not seen  anything to suggest that the amount of the
premiums applied to Mrs Ks policies would mean that this policy  was mis-sold.  Overall, as
Mrs K said she was the owner  and registered keeper of the car, I dont think  LV did anything
wrong by recording  her as the policyholder, as she had the insurable interest in the car.
As with the initial sale there is limited information  about the renewal processes from LV and
no testimonial evidence from Mrs K. LV are unable to provide  the policy schedules for the
polices taken out in 2009 and 2010  but have said they would not be materially different to
those sent between 2011 and 2013.  I have not seen the policy  schedules  on one of Mrs Ks
policies from its inception  in 2011 to 2013  although  I have not seen anything to suggest the
format of these schedules would be any different to the schedules  I have  seen for 2011  -
2013 on Mrs Ks other policy.
Ref: DRN86725544The information LV have  provided shows that, whether the renewal  was done over the
phone or automatically,  LV asked the policyholder if any details have changed. Im
persuaded this would have been  done  in the renewal documentation sent and also in the
renewal call, if one was done. I say this because the call guides and example renewal quote
which LV says are similar to those which would  have been sent at the time ask the
policyholder to let them  know about  any changes to ensure the details held are correct. This
is also quite normal for motor insurance  renewals and Im unable  to agree that LV did
anything wrong  during  these.
The certificates of insurance Ive seen for Mrs Ks policies show her as the policyholder and
as the person able to drive other cars under the policy. So, while  its not clear what the
actual renewal documents from the time would have shown, it is clear the certificate of
insurance said who was able to drive  other  cars. Ive also considered Mrs Ks point about
English not being her first language during the renewals. As with the initial  sales  Ive not
seen anything so show Mrs K made LV aware she didnt understand what  she was being
told if she did call. So, taking all of the above into account I dont think LV did anything wrong
during the renewals either.
Ive also considered the point that Mr S and Mrs K think the term driving  other cars isnt clear
and that they interpreted  it to mean  cars outside  of their household. On the insurance
certificate it says in bold:
The Policyholder  may also drive with the owner's permission a private motor car not owned
by the Policyholder and not hired to the Policyholder under a hire purchase agreement.
From reading this term I interpret this to mean any car not owned by the policyholder  and not
just those outside of the household.  Ive also reviewed  the wording on the back of the
insurance certificate which says:
We will insure  you to drive a private  motor car, not owned, registered or hired  to you. You
must have  a current and valid policy and the car in section 1 of this certificate has not been
damaged beyond economical  repair  or stolen and not recovered.  The car must  be registered
in Great  Britain, Northern  Ireland, the Isle of Man or the Channel  Islands.  The cover is for
third party only, therefore damage or loss to the vehicle you're driving is not covered."
When reading this section. Im satisfied  its clear on what other cars are able to be driven
and that it doesnt just include  those  outside  of the household. Im also satisfied that when
the term on the back of the insurance certificate  is read alongside the term in bold on the
front, that its clear this only applies to the policyholder. So, from reading this term Im
satisfied its clear on what other  cars the policyholder  is able to drive. I also think this is clear
that its the policyholder who is able to drive  other  cars and not the main  driver. And as Mr S
wasnt the policyholder, this term wouldnt  apply  to him.
Ref: DRN86725545I think it would be useful  to take the time to explain that as an Ombudsman Im required to
determine what is fair and reasonable based on all the circumstances  of the complaint  and
that assessing what is fair and reasonable requires taking into account the factors set out in
DISP 3.6.4R. The law is just one of the factors Im required to take into account.
I have considered the relevant law concerning unfair  contract  terms which Mr S and Mrs K
have referred to. When considering their legal arguments regarding the contract  terms I
wouldnt be able to say exactly  what a court would decide. From looking at the terms though
I think it would be unlikely  based on the evidence and taking into account the relevant law
and regulations, relevant codes of practice  and good  industry  practice at the relevant time
that it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude that LV acted unfairly or without
transparency for the reasons Ive given  above.
Neither Mr S, Mrs K nor LV responded to my second  provisional decision by the date 
requested. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr S, Mrs K nor LV responded to my second provisional decision above  I see no 
reason to depart from it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2021.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8672554