K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about advice she received in 1992 from Colin D Hookey & Partners,  
Independent Financial to transfer  the value of her deferred benefits in a former employers 
final salary occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal pension.
background    
Ive seen Mrs Gs complaint before. Colin D Hookey initially said the complaint had been  
made too late and we couldnt consider it. I issued a jurisdiction decision on 12 May 2020. I 
concluded, for the reasons I set out, that the complaint  had been  made  in time. 
One of our adjudicators then looked into the merits of the complaint. She issued her view on 
4 September 2020. About  the background to the complaint, she said:
Mrs G had told us that Colin D Hookey advised her to transfer because  a personal 
pension would provide greater returns than her OPS. She says the advice was given 
verbally and she wasnt  given  a written  record  of the advice. She hasnt been  able to 
provide any documentation. Nor has she been  able to obtain much information  from 
the trustees of the OPS. And Colin D Hookey cant locate  any documentation 
specifically about the advice. 
But there was no dispute that Colin D Hookey was responsible for setting up a new 
personal pension  for Mrs G with Clerical  Medical and transferring the value  of her 
deferred benefits in the OPS  into that new policy. 
Given the length of time that had elapsed it was unsurprising that neither party  had 
been able to provide more information.  Wed obtained limited  information from 
Clerical Medical about the setting up of the new policy which  we shared. 
Mrs G had started working for the employer  in July 1972  and had left in August 1984.  
Shed then spent  some time raising her children but she had since  resumed work.
The adjudicator said that it seemed unlikely that further information would be forthcoming. 
So she was setting  out her views based on the limited evidence  shed seen. 
Mrs G had complained on the basis that shed suffered a financial loss. But, even if 
she was now worse  off at retirement than if shed remained in the OPS, that wasnt 
enough to uphold her complaint. Wed need  to be satisfied that the advice to transfer 
was inappropriate  for her at the time. 
Ref: DRN86379392Mrs G had switched her pension another four times after the initial  transfer to Clerical  
Medical. We were  only looking at that initial transfer.
Wed  been  hampered  by the lack of documentation. But, at the time of the advice, 
there was no requirement for a reasons why letter or for a transfer value analysis  to 
be undertaken. But Colin  D Hookey ought  to have retained any documentation it had 
in accordance with the regulators guidance. 
We hadnt been able to compare the projected retirement benefits from the OPS with 
the illustrated benefits for the new personal pension. That would give an indication as 
to whether at the time (and as Mrs G has said she was told) the personal  pension 
was expected  to provide higher benefits than the OPS. And it would indicate  the level 
of growth (and so, to some extent,  the degree  of risk) to achieve that fund value and 
income level. But the illustration wed seen was split between the protected (GMP) 
and non protected rights  parts and projected to ages  60 and 50 respectively, 
whereas the OPS retirement age was 60. A like for like comparison wasnt  possible. 
We didnt have the exact date Mrs G left the OPS And we didnt know  how her 
pension would have increased.  Shed provided some information which suggested 
the GMP (Guaranteed Minimum Pension) element of her benefit would have 
increased at 8.5% pa. And the non GMP portion in line with inflation. It may have 
been that all of her pension increased  before retirement. But that wasnt  certain, 
especially as shed left before 1985.
Mrs Gs OPS pension was made up of a GMP of £184.08 and an excess  of 
£1,149.50. The illustration  for the protected rights policy indicates the resulting 
pension would be lower than the revalued GMP from the OPS. But the non protected  
rights illustration at 50 (ten years before the OPS  retirement age) suggests Mrs G 
could expect to receive a higher non protected rights pension. 
Overall the information we had wasnt enough to assess  whether the transfer value  
was likely to provide  Mrs G with better benefits than the OPS. 
Wed  also look at Mrs Gs situation, including the time remaining until retirement,  her 
circumstances at the time of the advice  and her attitude to risk. 
Mrs G had about fourteen years  to go if she retired  at 50 (which  may or may not have 
been realistic)  and some twenty  four years to age 60. Either  way she had long 
enough to benefit  from investment growth. Which  would  have been  seen  as an 
advantage in transferring,  especially if the non GMP  part of the pension didnt 
increase in deferment. But, against  that, Mrs Gs OPS benefits represented a 
significant part of her retirement  provision.  The funds selected for the personal 
pension didnt suggest that Mrs G was someone  who didnt want to take any risk with 
her pension. On balance, there wasnt enough  to say the advice Mrs G was given in 
1992 was unsuitable  for her. 
Mrs G was understandably disappointed that the adjudicator hadnt upheld  her complaint. 
She asked  for an ombudsmans  decision. Her representative said Mrs G wanted to try to 
obtain some  further  information. Shes  now been able some more  information from the 
current administrators of the OPS. They told us theyd taken over in 2012 and the 
information on their file was very limited. They did however provide a booklet about  
revaluation rates and some other brochures.  They said the GMP increased each year by 
8.5% and the 1997 excess increased  as provided by statute (which  I think  is a reference  to 
pensions in payment).  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86379393Having done so, I dont disagree  with the conclusions that the adjudicator  reached. As she 
noted, this is a difficult complaint to decide, given that theres very little contemporaneous 
documentation. And there was no requirement at the time to provide  a suitability report 
which would have set out the basis on which the transfer was being recommended.  
I think Colin D Hookey should have retained  some  documentation  for example a note of 
any meetings with Mrs G or any advice  given orally. But the fact that such  evidence  cant 
now be produced  isnt sufficient, on its own, for me to uphold the complaint. And, as the 
adjudicator pointed out, although Mrs G may now be worse  off in retirement than if she had 
remained in the OPS, that isnt enough  either. 
Ive looked at the further information recently  provided. Its generic information and doesnt 
relate specifically to Mrs Gs transfer  in 1992. I dont think the pension  scams  booklet (which 
seems to have been produced fairly recently) is relevant. Similarly, the transfer guide is also 
more recent  and is aimed at members who might  be considering  transferring now.  
But the guide about what happens to the pension when  a member leaves the employer does 
contain information about how the OPS increases in deferment  that is how Mrs Gs 
pension would have  increased between when she left service and when she came  to draw 
her benefits,  assuming she hadnt  transferred out of the OPS.   
As the adjudicator suggested,  Mrs Gs GMP - £184.08 pa when she left service - would have 
increased by 8.5% pa. The OPS administrator has confirmed that the GMP element would 
have increased  by 8.5% pa in deferment.  
The illustration indicated  that the GMP payable  at age 60 could be £141 pa or £268 pa. The 
first figure is less than Mrs Gs accrued GMP (£184.08) at the date of leaving the OPS. 
Uplifting that figure  between  then and age 60 by 8.5% pa produces  a figure in excess of 
£2,000 pa. At first sight that doesnt compare  favourably with the illustration. 
But Im not sure of the basis on which the illustration  was produced: the notes accompanying 
the illustration are no longer available. Its possible the accumulated  fund and pension  
figures were  adjusted to allow for the effect of inflation during the period  before retirement.  
The pension and accumulated fund figures arent  consistent with the surrender values which 
suggest higher  fund growth and which would result in a higher GMP at age 60.
As to the excess, the adjudicator wasnt sure if the non GMP element would have increased 
too, especially  as, because Mrs G had left service before 1 January 1986,  there  was no 
obligation for the benefits in excess of the GMP to be revalued. If the excess  didnt increase, 
the figures shown  on the illustration (£1,580 or £3,300 at age 50) didnt compare 
unfavourably with the non protected rights pension Mrs G had accrued when she left the 
OPS. That was £1,149.50 and not payable until age 60. 
But it seems  that element  of Mrs Gs pension would have increased annually.  Thats  a factor 
in favour  of remaining in the OPS  all of Mrs Gs accrued benefits in the OPS would have 
increased in deferment  and so the purchasing power of her pension would have been 
protected, to some  extent at least, against  inflation.   But that doesnt of itself mean the 
transfer was unsuitable. It still might  have been  reasonable to assume  the transfer was likely 
to result in higher benefits. 
Ref: DRN86379394As I understand the position, the non GMP  portion  of Mrs Gs deferred benefits would have 
increased annually  in line with the increase  in the Retail  Prices  Index (RPI)  up to a maximum 
of 5%.
The illustration indicated  that the non protected rights element of the transfer value could 
produce a pension, at age 50, of £1,580 or £3,300.  Very rough calculations  based on the 
OPS pension being revalued  at, say, 5% pa from when Mrs G left service to age 50, indicate 
that her OPS pension  might have grown to somewhere between  those  two figures. 
But thats assuming the maximum increase prevailed year on year. And, had Mrs G been 
able to and had wanted to draw her OPS  pension then, its likely it would have been reduced 
for early payment. As her OPS retirement age was some ten years  later,  the reduction could 
have been substantial. So, from the illustration, it might not be unreasonable to assume  that 
Mrs G was likely to be better off if she transferred. 
Mrs G might say that the rates of return used in the (non protected  rights)  illustration  
8.50% pa and 13% pa - were too high. But, at the time, I think  these were the assumed 
future growth rates that the then regulator  said should be used in illustrations. I agree that, 
today, that level of growth would be viewed as high. But I dont think  that was the case  at the 
time and when economic conditions were much  more  favourable.  The assumptions about 
future growth rates havent been  met. But that doesnt mean that, at the time, those 
expectations were unreasonable.
Although Ive considered the further information  very carefully, I dont think  it means  Mrs Gs 
complaint can be upheld. I know Mrs G will be disappointed. But based on such information 
as Ive seen (and as has been explained  thats limited) I cant  say that the transfer was 
unsuitable. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and I dont make  any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2021.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637939