1The complaint
Ms M complains that Suffolk Life Annuities  Limited  (Suffolk Life) unfairly permitted land, 
which was held in her former husband s self-invested personal pension (SIPP), to be 
undervalued for the purposes  of calculating the value of her former  husband s SIPP and her 
share of that SIPP.
She also says that Suffolk Life didn t engage with her between the date of the pension  
sharing order and the implementation of the pension sharing order to facilitate  the most 
efficient pension investment in the interests of both parties under their respective pension 
funds, as expected by the court.
She says shes lost out financially as a result  because in divorce proceedings the court  
ordered that she receive a 50% share of her former  husbands SIPP.  She said she ended up 
receiving less money overall  because the land was significantly undervalued. And she was 
not told about this until after the land had been  sold and left the SIPP. She says that her ex-
husband benefitted from the undervaluation of the property, as he received a greater share of the 
true market value of the SIPP.
What happened
In October  2016, the court made  a pension sharing order (PSO) for Ms M to receive 50% of 
the value of her former husbands  SIPP. Ill refer to Ms Ms former husband as Mr N for the 
purposes of this decision. The effect  of the court order  was to give Ms M a beneficial 
entitlement to half of the value of Mr Ns SIPP.
The 2016  court order  said at Clause  13, regarding Mr Ns pensions  arrangement:
The Applicant and Respondent agree  to both co-operate with the pension trustees of the 
pension arrangement with regard to all matters  concerning the land forming  part of the 
assets of the pension  arrangement including but not limited to:
a)Whether to sell or retain any or all of the land holdings.
b)Whether or not to sever the titles of all or any of the land between the pension funds 
or the parties following  implementation  of the pension sharing order  set out  below.
c)Whether or not to further  diversify the investments held by the pension arrangement 
as existing and the pension funds  arising following the implementation of the pension 
sharing order set out below.
d)Generally between the date of the order and the implementation of the pension  
sharing order set out below to co-operate with the pension trustees so as to facilitate 
the most  efficient pension investment  in the interests of both parties under their 
respective pension funds following implementation of the pension  sharing order.
e)If in the event there are any charges accruing whatsoever in connection with the 
implementation of the pension sharing order including  (for the avoidance of doubt) re- 
valuation charges, standard management  charges or standard  annual  charges prior 
to implementation  of the pension sharing  order, the parties agree to share those 
charges equally.
Suffolk Life was sent a copy of the PSO.  On 27 October 2016, Suffolk Life told Ms Ms 
representative that:
As Mr Ns SIPP contains funds that are both crystallised and uncrystallised,  we also need 
written confirmation from each party confirming from which  part of the SIPP the pension  
sharing order should  be paid.
Ref: DRN89092482Mr Ns SIPP  investments included 17.57 acres of agricultural land purchased  in 2010 for
£150,000. At the time of purchase, the land was independently valued at £135,000.  Mr N 
justified his reasons  for purchasing it through his SIPP  at the higher price as being  due to its 
amenity appeal, given its location.  Also, because  potentially  it could be broken down into 
three different lots.
For PSO purposes,  in February 2017, Suffolk Life provided Ms Ms adviser with an 
unaudited summary  of the schemes assets as at 29 February 2016. Suffolk Life said in this 
letter, it was required to complete an audited valuation as at the date all requirements were  
met.
The February 2017 summary  showed that the total value of the property in the SIPP was 
valued at £232,000, shares at approximately £5,300 and cash around  £65,000.  In total 
£302,300, approximately. The 17.57  acres  of agricultural land referred to above was 
valued at £122,000. There  was another piece of land included,  which  Ms M says was 
later valued  and sold. She does not complain  about  the valuation  and sale of this other  
land.
On 4 April 2017,  Ms Ms adviser informed Suffolk Life that she wanted to take her 50% share 
of the SIPP  fund in cash.
On 24 April 2017, Suffolk Life was given details  of the receiving scheme  Ms M wanted her 
50% share of the pension sent to. Suffolk  Life said that the SIPP valuation date was 
therefore set at 24 April 2017, as all requirements  had been met.
To equally divide the SIPP as per the PSO,  under  paragraph 15.1(f) of The Suffolk Life 
Master SIPP  Terms and Conditions the trustees  had to obtain a true market  value of 
Mr Ns SIPP.  This included  obtaining  a current value of the investments,  including the 
land (property ).
Under paragraph 16.6 of the SIPP terms and conditions, it said:
where we are required by legislation or other regulations to value your SIPP  at market 
value, we will arrange for your SIPPs investments to be so valued. This will include, but 
Is not limited to, the appointment of an appropriately qualified valuer in respect of the 
unquoted investments. Where we need to appoint such  a valuer we will notify  you in 
advance for confirmation  of the valuer  you wish us to use and agreement  to the valuers 
fees. If you do not reply  within 30 days we reserve  the right to appoint a valuer of our 
choice to carry out the valuation. The valuers  fees and any other  costs  associated with the 
valuation will be payable  from your SIPP. The appointment  of a valuer for property is set 
out in paragraph 10.
Under the SIPPs terms and conditions when  valuing property, a suitably qualified valuer 
had to be appointed to provide the valuation. Paragraph 10 dealt with the appointment of a 
valuer to value property.  At paragraph 10.58 of the terms and conditions it stated that:
A valuation of the property will only be accepted from a valuer and must be addressed to 
Suffolk Life. The valuation should be in accordance with RICS Valuation  Professional 
Standards (the red book) and we must be the party instructing the valuer to ensure our 
requirements are met.
Ref: DRN89092483The Property Guide  said that Once  a valuation has been conducted we can rely on the 
values within  the report for pension and legislative requirements for a period of up to three 
months. The cost of any valuations will be met by your SIPP.
Mr N was asked by Suffolk Life which valuer  he wanted to use. Mr N told Suffolk  Life that he 
wanted a company, I shall refer to as Company A, to carry out the valuation.  Ms M was not 
asked. 
Company A was instructed  by Suffolk Life and carried  out a valuation. It sent Suffolk Life 
its report and valuation.  The property  (land)  was inspected  in mid May 2017,  but the 
valuation was dated as at 24 April 2017.  The report  said that:
 The valuer  was MRICS FAAV qualified, and an RCIS  registered valuer. It noted 
the valuer had sufficient knowledge and experience to undertake  the valuation.
 The market value of the property (subject to the assumptions made in the 
report) was £90,000.
 We confirm that we have had no known material involvement with 
the subject of the valuation or the client within the last two years.  We 
are therefore acting as an External  Valuer
Company As valuer said that land in that area was valued at around £8,000 per acre for the 
more productive and strategically located land.  And at around £5,000 per acre for the less 
productive land that sticks around in terms of sale. On a £90,000 valuation, it seems  the valuer 
was placing a value  of around  £5,122 per acre on the land held in Mr Ns SIPP.  So, at the less 
productive, sticking around end.
Suffolk Life says that based on this £90,000 valuation,  it assessed the overall  value of Mr Hs 
SIPP, valued as at 24 April 2017,  and paid £119,054.80 to Ms M, which  it says was 50% of the 
total fund value. It says this amount  was paid to Ms Ms chosen SIPP  provider on 9 June 2017.
In August  2017,  in response  to a letter from Ms Ms adviser, querying the amount transferred 
to Ms Ms pension, Suffolk Life apologised for the delay in responding and told Ms Ms adviser  
how much  had been sent to Ms Ms chosen provider. It said the value was as a result of the 
audited valuation that it was required to complete at the date all the requirements  were met 
(24 April 2017). Suffolk Life said it was enclosing the audited valuation  for the advisers  
reference. In this letter Suffolk Life also said, upon reviewing the PSO, it had come to its 
attention that the property valuation fee had not been shared with Ms M, which shouldve been 
the case. It asked  the adviser to arrange  for Ms M to repay  her 50% share of this fee to Suffolk 
Life.
In its letter  of 4 September 2017,  to the adviser, Suffolk Life apologised for omitting to include 
the audited valuation in its August 2017  letter. It said this was now enclosed.
On 1 November 2017, Ms Ms adviser  asked  Suffolk Life for the RICS valuation report  for the 
17.57 acres  of land.  On 22 November  2017,  Suffolk  Life provided Ms Ms adviser with a copy 
of the valuation report.
In between times, on 2 November 2017, and before Ms M was sent the valuation  report, 
according to Land  Registry records, the trustees sold the land for £90,000 out of the SIPP. 
Suffolk Life said at the time of disposal it asked Company  A if the earlier valuation, as at 24 
April 2017, could still be relied on as reflecting market value. It said Company A confirmed  that 
it could be.
Ref: DRN89092484Ms M said she received  around £25,000  less than she was expecting from Mr Hs SIPP.  But 
she was not told why, until November 2017, when she received the valuation  report, showing 
the land had been valued at £90,000.
Ms M took the view that the property had been undervalued and appointed her own MRICS 
registered valuer to carry out a valuation. In January  2018,  the valuer valued the land at 
£130,000. Ill refer to the company that this valuer  worked for as Company B.
The Company B valuer instructed by Ms M concluded that Company A had used an 
inexperienced valuer  from out of the area.  In his opinion,  Company A had come up with a 
very low and incorrect valuation. He said, in his opinion, having sold land very close  to the 
land in question, the land could be expected to raise in excess  of £7,000  per acre and 
should be marketed  as such. He said, in summary, land containing agricultural buildings  
(which this had) attracted a higher price due to its planning appeal.
Ms M, through her adviser, wrote to Suffolk  Life expressing concern about  the valuation.  She 
pointed out that on the plan statement before the April 2017 valuation,  Suffolk  Life showed the 
land valued at £122,000  (the valuation date here was 27 March  2015).  She said Company As 
valuation was 45% less than the value Company B had valued the land at.
Suffolk Life responded and said:
it had spoken with its property valuations team. Suffolk Life had to ensure that  any 
property valuation was conducted by a RICS registered valuer. This was the case  
in respect of Company  As valuer;
as Mr N was the plan holder, he could choose  the valuer he wanted  to use, 
provided they were RICS  registered. In this case, he chose Company A and 
Suffolk Life had no reason to question such a request;
it was sorry to learn that Ms M didnt agree with Company As valuation.
However, as this valuation met the requirements, it was unable  to amend this unless  
Mr N agreed to a revaluation of the property  and to the outcome of any new 
valuation. 
As Suffolk  Life said it intended  to rely on the valuation produced  by Company A, Ms M 
referred her complaint  to our service.  Our adjudicator investigated Ms Ms complaint and 
didnt uphold  it. He took the view that:
Suffolk Life was merely the SIPP provider / administrator and therefore was reliant 
on individuals  that are recognised as being  qualified  in valuing property and land to 
provide a value;
the valuation  of property (including  land)  was a matter  of opinion. The land was only 
worth what  a potential purchaser was prepared  to pay for it; and
in his view Suffolk  Life had complied with the SIPPs terms and conditions  and 
therefore he did not consider that it was unreasonable for Suffolk  Life to rely on the 
valuation given  by a qualified valuer under  such circumstances.
Ms M didnt  agree with our adjudicators view and asked for her case  to be referred to an 
ombudsman. She said, in summary, she was disappointed with the conclusions reached,  
in particular, in Ms Ms view:
Company As valuer did not have sufficient knowledge and experience  to undertake 
the valuation. The surveyor had very limited  experience, compared to her valuer, 
who had 30 years  experience valuing land in the same area;
Ms M disagreed with the assumptions  made  in Company As report and they were 
contrary to her valuers conclusions, and when compared with the price of similar 
Ref: DRN89092485land in the area; and
Suffolk Life had acted contrary to the financial remedy order, by not enabling efficient  
pension investment by her, and decreasing her pension  value by £20,000. This was 
not a fair outcome.
Ms Ms complaint was referred to me for a decision. In August 2020, I issued a provisional 
decision saying that I was minded to uphold Ms Ms complaint, setting  out my reasons why.
Suffolk Life did not accept  my provisional  decision.  It made  the following additional 
representations, which I have set out in more detail than I would usually, given the nature of 
these representations.
Suffolk Life said:
My provisional decision is unreasonable and is based on a flawed understanding  of 
how commercial property  investments are valued  for PSO purposes;
The process for establishing market value of a commercial  property  investment  is 
detailed clearly within the product literature. In the glossary to the Terms and 
Conditions, it explains market value  as the price  an investment  may reasonably be 
expected to fetch on the open market calculated in accordance  with Section 272 of the 
Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992.
The requirement for establishing market  value of a property is explained  in section 10.6 
of the Terms and Conditions. This must be read in conjunction with sections 15 & 16 of 
the Terms and Conditions and The Property Guide which  refers  to the appointment of a 
RICS qualified valuer as a must. 
A RICS Registered valuer  was appointed  providing unconflicted advice on the market 
value of the property at the time of the PSO.  There was no reason for Suffolk Life to 
challenge this advice. Suffolk Life was clearly able to rely on this for the value of the 
property, to process the PSO.  
If a regulated professional provides a valuation and there is concern about whether that 
property was undervalued, the recourse would be against  the valuer, not against 
Suffolk Life. 
Had Suffolk Life obtained a second valuation which showed a material difference  in 
value, it would then have become necessary to obtain a third valuation and so on. It is 
unlikely this would have been  considered reasonable by HMRC in regard  to pension 
legislation. Further it would infer that valuations are obtained solely for the purpose of 
meeting the desired expectations  of those involved.
Reference has been made to the unaudited SIPP valuation,  which  was used to provide 
an indication of the SIPP value, when the PSO was discussed in the courts.  This 
document provided a value of the property as at its last valuation date. However, 
HMRC only consider a property  valuation to be current or accurate if it is less than six 
months old. Ms M should not have  placed any reliance on this when setting her 
expectations. Her advisers  shouldve informed her of this.
The provisional decision is swayed by the onward sale of the property,  after it was 
removed from the SIPP. That is irrelevant to the processing of the PSO. Suffolk Life 
holds no details regarding  the circumstances of that personal  sale and to its knowledge 
neither does the ombudsman. Its not known  whether that buyer  was a special 
Ref: DRN89092486purchaser who therefore held an interest in paying  a greater sum for the property. 
Equally, the seller could just have negotiated a good deal, above market  value.  
What the property was subsequently  sold for in November  2018,  after it had been 
removed from the SIPP, is also of no relevance to the valuation completed  in April 
2017. While the valuation report provided  by Company A comments  on value being 
based in part on their understanding that the land could not be used for an alternative 
use and provided  comparison  to other land sold in the area recently, it is possible that a 
future buyer may well have purchased the land in the hope that future planning  
permission would  be provided. What they subsequently paid for the land cannot 
however be used as potential  market  value in April 2017.
There is a clear  difference  between professional valuation advice and what an asset is 
sold for. For the purposes of the PSO, Suffolk Life was required by pension legislation  
to establish market value, which it did by obtaining independent third-party  advice from 
a RICS registered surveyor  for pension valuation. This would  not prevent the property 
from being marketed  at a higher rate or someone paying more  for the property. What  it 
states is that the property is only worth £90,000  for the purposes of pension  value.
If Ms M feels she should be entitled  to sale proceeds received from an external sale,  
the only recourse  for her would  be to take the matter back  to the courts  which dealt with 
the divorce proceedings.
The court ordered  PSO,  awarded Ms M 50% of the SIPP. Suffolk Like asked Ms M for 
her instructions on how this was to be processed, her choices being to take 50% of the 
assets held in specie or to receive 50% of the plan value in cash. Ms M elected  to take 
her share of the plan value in cash. In order to proceed with her requirements Suffolk 
Life obtained market  valuation of all assets,  including the property, in line with its Terms  
and Conditions and pension legislation. The equivalent cash value of 50% of the plan 
was subsequently paid to Ms M in accordance with her instructions and that of the 
PSO. 
The value of an investment can go up and down  and the ombudsman  questions 
whether it would have  been reasonable for Suffolk Life to question the valuation 
obtained. Suffolk Life is not however  a professional RICS registered surveyor and it is 
therefore reasonable for it to rely on the advice provided by an independent third party 
with established  credentials. 
The decision reached also suggests  that Suffolk Life allowed the property to be sold 
utilising the valuation received as part of the PSO,  even though this was already 
subject to a dispute.  This is inaccurate, as the property  was sold at the request  of the 
SIPP investor prior to any dispute  being raised.  That said Suffolk  Lifes  position remains 
unchanged on this point, as the valuation used was obtained from a RICS registered 
surveyor who provided their expert  opinion  on the market value of the property as at the 
time of the PSO.
The ombudsman commented that had the property been  marketed for sale, it may have 
been possible to obtain a higher  value for the land. However, neither the PSO nor Ms M 
required the land to be sold in order to process instructions. This also shows a 
misunderstanding of the legal requirements  for when  assets  are to be valued for the 
basis of a PSO. Suffolk Life can only utilise market valuations  at that time and cannot  
utilise assumptions on value in alternative circumstances. 
Ref: DRN89092487The Welfare Reform  and Pensions  Act 1999 stipulates that, once Suffolk  Life receives 
all the requisite documents, as set out in The Pensions on Divorce etc. (Provision of 
Information) Regulations 2000 and the Welfare  Reform and Pensions  act 1999, four 
months is allowed  to calculate  the value of a PSO. Suffolk Life cannot  therefore utilise  
either future valuations or what it may achieve in sale to an external party.  The PSO did 
not provide Ms M with the right to demand  sale and we can therefore only accept  actual 
advice stipulating valuation at that time. The report provided by Company A clearly 
states that the market value of the property as at 24 April 2017 was £90,000. 
The ombudsman is unable to challenge  the valuation provided in April 2017,  there  is no 
indication of her professional qualifications  and therefore any decision reached is based  
on an unprofessional point of view. 
The suggestion that Suffolk Life should  not have  relied upon the report provided  by 
Company A, and instead should  rely on advice presented by Ms M is not reasonable in 
any way. The report does not demonstrate impartiality and the future sale of the 
property almost a year after it was removed  from the SIPP is irrelevant.
Suffolk Life disputes the fact that Ms M needed  to be involved in the appointment of a 
RICS registered valuer to obtain a valuation of the property  for the PSO.  The decision 
reached is essentially suggesting that the valuation obtained was either wrong or that 
the professional  advice was somehow flawed, even  though no evidence of wrong doing 
or professional misconduct has been  introduced.
Suffolk Life maintains  that this dispute  is something which  needs  to be reviewed  by the 
courts for them to determine if Ms M is entitled to any further  funds from the SIPP. 
Suffolk Life rejects any suggestion of wrong doing on its part and it can demonstrate  
that it has acted in accordance with its Terms and Conditions,  pension legislation, the 
court order and the instructions of the SIPP holder and Ms M. 
The suggestion of loss remains one of expectation and it is unreasonable to use 
information regarding  the future sale of the property, particularly in relation to events 
which occurred after the property  was removed from the SIPP,  which Suffolk  Life was 
not party to. 
The provisional decision should be suitably changed to reflect  the fact that Suffolk Life 
has acted appropriately and that any concerns Ms M has regarding the value of her 
share of the SIPP, will need  to be reviewed  by the court. However,  should  the court 
determine that Ms M is entitled to additional funds received in relation to the private  
sale of the property, they are funds which cannot be retrieved  from the SIPP as they 
never formed part of the pension.
Ms M accepted my provisional  decision.  She added  the following, in summary:
If she had been given a say over which surveyor to use, she would have chosen one 
from the local area, familiar with, and sensitive to, local demand, and who understood 
achievable sales values. She would have  recommended the surveyor Mr N and she 
had used when  they bought some property and land nearby. 
They had paid £150,000 for the land in 2010, based on Mr Ns conviction  that the land 
was potentially worth  more because it had two structures on it, a very large polytunnel,  
a large bay barn, together with outline  planning permission for a second large barn.  
Also, it had the benefit of a natural spring water pump and tank to the fields.  All of this 
made it more marketable in terms of planning consent for constructing a dwelling on it.
Ref: DRN89092488Had she been told immediately after the valuation that the land was only worth 
£90,000, she would have rejected it out of hand  as being unrealistic. She would have 
asked for a further valuation, possibly by the independent assessors originally 
appointed by Suffolk Life in 2010,  or by the assessors she and Mr N had used 
previously, as she had faith in their assessment of the local market. She would have 
taken professional advice on her options  and pushed for the land to be placed  on the 
open market,  to recover the full value of it. She was denied the opportunity to purchase 
the land from the SIPP at this lower valuation. She may have considered stepping back 
from taking a cash settlement and allowed  the land to be invested  in a SIPP.
She was relying  on an equal split of the pension fund and realistically  assumed  it would  
be worth  close  to the original valuation of £135,000, possibly more,  given  her ex-
husbands strong view about the worth of the land.
She thinks the approach adopted  in the provisional decision for calculating redress is 
appropriate and workable and it should  be possible  for a surveyor  to value the land.
Ms Ms complaint comes back to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have carefully  considered 
all of Suffolk Lifes additional representations  in detail and have taken them  all into 
account in reaching  my decision. Having done so, I have not changed my view as 
to the appropriate outcome in this case.
I uphold Ms Ms complaint. I shall explain why. My reasons are for the most part the same as I 
set out in my provisional decision. But, I will deal with Suffolk Lifes further  points also.
Suffolk Lifes Terms and Conditions
In my provisional decision,  I went into some detail about Suffolk Lifes  terms and conditions,  
specifically mentioning the particular  paragraphs Suffolk Life now refers me to. I also referred 
to some other paragraphs from its terms and conditions, in particular paragraph 27, dealing  
with conflicts. Suffolk Life has not mentioned paragraph 27.
The valuation process
Suffolk Life says that I do not understand the process for valuing a SIPP.  Ive looked  carefully  
at the SIPP  terms  and conditions for valuing property. Suffolk Life notified  Mr N in advance  that 
he could select a RICS approved valuer. He selected Company  A. The terms of engagement 
for Company A appeared to be fair. I can see that Company A confirmed that it had had no 
known material involvement  with the subject  of the valuation (the land)  or the client  (Suffolk 
Life) in the two years  before.  I cant see that the identity  of Mr N was disclosed to Company A 
(only the SIPP  reference  number).The person carrying  out the valuation  said she was 
suitability qualified and had the requisite experience.
So, it seems  that Company As valuation was carried out in such  a way that the trustees 
could, feasibly, rely on it. However, having  looked  at the terms and conditions I cant see that 
they had to rely on it. 
I say this because:  Paragraph 15 of the terms and conditions made it clear that they had to 
Ref: DRN89092489obtain true market value.
Paragraph 16 said that when valuing for market value the trustees  actions were 
not limited to, the appointment of an appropriately  qualified  valuer .
Paragraph 27 dealt with conflicts of interests.  It said,  A conflict of interest is where 
our duties to you as our customer or trust beneficiary may conflict  with what is best 
for ourselves,  our associated companies  our other customers or our duties that we 
may owe to others.  
So, it seems  clear to me, looking at the terms and conditions, if there was a conflict  of interests 
between Mr N and Ms M, this needed  to be identified and addressed.  
Suffolk Lifes engagement with Ms M.
Suffolk Life said in its response to this service that when processing  a PSO all information is 
shared with the solicitor  or other  third party representing the parties  involved,  not necessarily  
to the individual parties directly.
It also said that:
the payment of the PSO  was settled in August 2017 with a copy of the SIPP  valuation  sent 
to [Ms M]s adviser. They subsequently requested a copy of the property valuation which 
was provided.
Suffolk Life didnt share the audited SIPP valuation or property valuation report, until asked for 
it by Ms Ms adviser. This information was provided quite some months after the valuation and 
after Suffolk Life paid what it considered  to be the 50% share into Ms Ms pension in June 
2017. 
Around £119,000 was transferred to Ms Ms pension in June 2017. Its clear that Suffolk Life 
did not send Ms M or her adviser a copy of the audited valuation  at that time. This was not 
sent until September 2017. It was meant to be sent in August 2017, which Suffolk Life said 
was when the PSO  was settled.
In the August 2017 letter, Suffolk  Life spoke of reviewing the PSO, in response to the 
valuation being  queried by Ms Ms adviser.  It asked for Ms M to refund her 50% of the 
valuation fee. So, it seems that the adviser began querying the valuation attributed, prior to 
this August letter and before the PSO was, in the trustees view,  settled. 
So, it seems  as at August  2017, the PSO appeared to be still capable of being reviewed  by 
Suffolk Life for some purposes. I say this because Suffolk Life wrote  to Ms Ms new scheme, 
requesting repayment  of half of the valuers  fees out of her share  of the fund.  Suffolk Life also 
said that it could  be revalued if Mr N agreed.
In response to some additional questions I asked about its actions,  Suffolk Life said The 
PSO was to share 50% of the plan value in cash.  After this was processed, [Ms M] would not 
have been involved  in the process of selling the property, as it was an asset of the SIPP. 
Therefore, all correspondence in this regard  would have been with [Mr N] and his 
representatives only. The property sale was completed in line with the RICS valuation 
completed by [Company  A] for the PSO.  Regardless  of who the property was sold to, the 
valuation provided  by [Company A] ensured  that HMRC were met. I am not at liberty to share  
information regarding  to whom the property was sold. 
This is incorrect.  The PSO did not require Ms M to receive her 50% of the SIPP  in cash. 
So, in summary,  Suffolk Life did not contact Ms M (or her adviser)  about the choice of 
surveyor, or ask her to agree the charges payable for the valuation report  up front. 
Ref: DRN890924810Admittedly, in April 2017 she had, through her adviser, told Suffolk Life she wanted to take 
her share in cash.  But, she didnt have to take it in cash. Ms M told us she opted to take it in 
cash as she realistically  assumed  that the land would be worth close to the original valuation 
of £135,000, and possibly  more,  given the amenity appeal that Mr N had identified when they 
bought it, which led to them paying £150,000 for it. Suffolk Life sent her adviser the audited 
scheme summary in September  2017, after paying over the money to her new pension 
scheme in June 2017. It did not forward on the valuation  report,  dated  May 2017, until 22 
November 2017,  and only after being  asked to do so by Ms Ms representative.  On 2 
November 2017,  the land in question was disposed of out of the SIPP  and sold to Mr N, after 
it became aware  months before that the valuation was being queried and asked the day 
before for a copy  of the property valuation report.  Overall, it seems to me there was very little 
engagement, if any, with Ms M or her adviser  about  the value of the SIPP, including  her share  
of it.
Suffolk Lifes responsibilities towards  Ms M as a result of the PSO
Ms M was a trust beneficiary as a result of the PSO, with a legal entitlement to half of the 
SIPPs assets. Suffolk Life owed Ms M a duty to act in her best interests. I cant  see how 
Suffolk Life acted in Ms Ms best interests  given its actions here. As a trust beneficiary, Ms M 
was not provided  with any opportunity  to provide  input on the valuation  of her 50% of scheme  
assets and was not provided with information  about the valuation in a timely way. 
On the other hand, Suffolk  Life gave Mr N the opportunity to choose  the valuer, and Suffolk 
Life instructed the valuer he chose. It seems  likely  it discussed valuation  matters with Mr N 
and his representatives after the valuation.  
So, I cant see how Suffolk Life acted  in Ms Ms interests given the manner it went about this. 
If Suffolk  Life was concerned about  a conflict of interests as between Mr N (as its customer  
and beneficiary) and Ms Ms interests (as a beneficiary)  there  was a process within  its terms 
and conditions to adhere to, to deal with that. I have not been told such a conflict  was 
identified and addressed here, if it considered one existed.
Conflict of interest
By not involving Ms M in the selection of the valuer, or agreeing fees up front with her, I think  
Suffolk Life was in breach of its own terms and conditions and that it acted unfairly  by 
preferring Mr Ns views over any views  Ms M may have  had.
I also dont know if there  were other examples of Mr N and Ms M not being treated the same, 
for example in the provision  of information about the audited valuation  of scheme assets  or the 
valuers report. I note Ms M was not provided  with a copy of the audited valuation until 4 
September 2017. She was not provided with a copy of the RICS valuation  until November 
2017, after the property concerned was sold out of the SIPP.  I havent  been told when Mr N 
was given this information.  
Choice of surveyor
As I see it, by allowing Mr N only to select the RICS surveyor,  Suffolk  Life was not treating 
these trust beneficiaries,  who each had a 50% share in the trust assets, even handedly.  It was 
giving preference to Mr N over Ms M. 
Ms M said had she been asked, she wouldve  chosen  a surveyor  from the local area,  as they 
wouldve been sensitive  to local demand. She said wouldve recommended  using the same 
local surveyor she and Mr N had used previously, when they purchased  property/land adjacent 
Ref: DRN890924811to this land.
I think Suffolk Life ought to have  understood that the choice of surveyor was an important 
consideration, because, after all, paragraph  10.6 of its terms and conditions  made specific 
provision as to how the surveyor  would be selected. 
By the time the surveyor came to be selected, Suffolk Life knew that both Mr N and Ms M had 
an equal beneficial  entitlement  under this SIPP, it also ought to have known from the PSO,  that 
Ms M was equally liable to meet the valuers  fees. It didnt consult her about the fees being 
charged, even  though the PSO made  it clear  that Ms M was jointly  liable for the fees and 
paragraph 16.6 specifically said it would obtain  agreement as to the valuation  fees.  In August 
2017, Suffolk Life wrote to Ms M and asked her to pay her half share  of these valuation fees 
(before deciding not to pursue this).
Suffolk Life continues to dispute the fact that Ms M needed to be involved in the appointment of 
a RICS surveyor. It says the decision reached  is essentially  suggesting that the valuation was 
either wrong  or the professional advice was somehow flawed, even though no evidence  of 
wrong doing or professional misconduct has been  introduced. Its not my role to assess the 
professional capabilities of a RICS qualified surveyor. And insofar  as I am assessing any 
wrong doing, I do so in the context of this complaint only; a complaint made  against  Suffolk  
Life. The wrong doing identified here,  is Suffolk Lifes preferential treatment of Mr N over Ms M 
in the manner it valued this SIPP.
Further, Suffolk Life says that if there is concern about whether a property was undervalued, 
the recourse would  be against  the valuer, not Suffolk Life. However, here what  I am 
considering is whether  it was reasonable for Suffolk Life to rely on a valuation that it did not 
have to, taking  into account the wider circumstances that prevailed.
Suffolk Life suggests that had it gone  on to obtain  a second valuation  which  showed a material  
difference in valuation, it would then have been necessary to obtain a third valuation, and so 
on. However, it is common practice  in a divorce context, where property has to be valued, and 
assets divided, for a joint expert  to be appointed  to value the property. Had Suffolk Life 
engaged with both Mr N and Ms M at the outset, rather than Mr N only,  it should have been 
possible to appoint a valuer that they were  both happy with. There wouldve then been no need  
for any second or subsequent valuation,  because fairly both parties wouldve had a say in the 
appointment of the surveyor at the outset and shared the costs  of appointment. 
Was it reasonable for Suffolk Life to rely on Company As valuation?
It ought to have been clear to Suffolk Life that the 24 April 2017 valuation was considerably  
lower than the valuation on purchase (£135,000) and the valuation included in the unaudited  
SIPP summary (£122,000).
In the divorce  proceedings, the actuaries used the valuation  of £122,000, taken from the 
SIPP summary, to assess what percentage of Mr Ns SIPP, Ms M might  be entitled to on a 
fair distribution of the couples assets.  Suffolk Life provided this valuation,  so, I think  Suffolk 
Life ought reasonably to have understood that the valuation of the property  impacted  on the 
fair distribution of assets for PSO purposes. Further, it ought to have been clear to Suffolk 
Life that the value attributed  to the land, would  be important  to Ms M. 
I accept what Suffolk  Life has said about this unaudited SIPP summary not being a 
document that could be used when it came  to valuing the land for PSO purposes. Ive never 
suggested it could  be. But, it was one that both parties used  during the divorce proceedings, 
as an indicator of the value. So, it provided  an unchallenged  marker, if nothing else.
Ref: DRN890924812I agree  it was necessary to obtain a proper valuation to assess true market  value for the 
purposes of implementing the PSO.  But, that being  the case, it was appropriate to involve 
Ms M in the valuation  process, in the same way it did Mr N. 
Given the significant variance in the value attached to the land by Company As surveyor,  
compared to the previous valuations, and taking  into account the comments made  by 
Company As surveyor about the assumptions behind the price  per acre,  in my view had 
Suffolk Life been acting  fairly and transparently, managing any conflicts  that existed between  
Mr N, Ms M, and its own duties towards her, it ought properly to have shared this information 
with Ms M much earlier than it did, to enable her to comment. 
Ms M said had she been given this information  sooner,  she wouldve rejected out of hand 
the £90,000 valuation because it was unrealistic.  She said she wouldve asked  for a further 
valuation. She said she would have taken professional  advice as to her options  and pushed 
for the land to be placed on the open  market and sold. She said she was denied  the same  
opportunity that her ex-husband  was given, to purchase the land from the SIPP  at this 
undervalue. She said she may have stepped back from asking for a cash settlement and 
invested the land in a SIPP.  
As I see it, because Suffolk Life did not share the valuation report  (or the audited valuation) 
with her until at least four months after the valuation date, and after it had paid the money 
across to her new pension scheme,  Ms M was not given the same opportunities as Mr N to 
assess her options in light of this information. 
It also seems  that Ms M first began querying  the valuation through  her adviser,  prior to August 
2017, before  the PSO was settled.  So, even if Suffolk Life considered it reasonable to rely on 
the valuation at the outset, once concerns were raised, it seems feasible  it couldve reviewed 
its position. After all, it felt able to request Ms M to repay the valuation  fee from her share.  
Suffolk Life also told Ms M that the valuation  could not be changed unless Mr N agreed to a 
revaluation. Again, Mr Ns view appeared to be taking precedence over Ms Ms, in Suffolk 
Lifes reconsideration of the matter.
Company As valuation
As I said in my provisional decision,  property values,  like any other investment, can of course 
go up and down. So, I asked myself,  whether given this clear and obvious difference  in value 
between purchase  price, the last unaudited valuation  and the current  valuation, Suffolk Life 
had cause to question whether, in the interests  of both Mr N and Ms M, Company As report  
could be fairly relied upon on its own, by Suffolk  Life, to provide a true market value  of the 
value of the property for pension share purposes. Particularly in the circumstances here, 
where Suffolk Life would  have known that Ms M had not provided any input on the choice of 
surveyor or been told the outcome of the valuation. 
By the time the valuation  information was shared with Ms M, she wasnt given the opportunity  
to comment on the value, Suffolk  Life said effectively  it was too late.
In considering all these matters, given the lack of engagement with Ms M, the preferential 
treatment shown to Mr N, and the failure to share information in a timely way with Ms M, I 
think Suffolk Life didnt act fairly towards Ms M during this valuation process. Further, I think it 
more likely that Suffolk Life was in possession of enough information (which it shared too late 
in the day for Ms M to comment  on) for there to be enough doubt about  the reliability of 
Company As valuation,  on its own, to assess true market value. I say this having regard to 
the earlier valuations  which  valued  the land at considerably more, and Company As valuer  
Ref: DRN890924813having told Suffolk Life that value may be governed by the marketability of the land.
I therefore remain of the view that Suffolk  Life has done something wrong. Suffolk  Life did not 
have to rely only on Company As report  in isolation. I find that it acted unfairly and 
unreasonably by doing so, given the wider  circumstances. 
As Suffolk  Life did something wrong, I have  gone on to consider whether Ms M has lost out as 
a result.  Clearly Mr N appears to have benefited from this. He purchased  the land out of his 
SIPP at £90,000  and sold it months after Company B valued it at £130,000, for £135,000. I 
cant see that this rise in value was simply due to market  fluctuations  between  April 2017 and 
November 2018.
Assessing true market value
As our adjudicator pointed out, Company  As valuers report expressed an expert opinion  on 
the value of the land. But, its not unusual for experts to have  different views,  sometimes  
based on different  assumptions,  which clearly  Company A and Company Bs valuers  had 
here. Hence  why a fair process, recognising  both parties interests, should be adopted at the 
time of appointment. 
I note Company Bs valuation was carried out at a later date, January 2018,  but Company 
Bs valuer  said in his report, this passage  of time was unlikely to have had much bearing on 
the valuation.
Looking at the two valuers  professional opinions, the key difference seems  to me to relate 
to the marketability and productive nature of the land; affecting price.
The marketability of the land seems not to have been tested. I note the lower  price per acre 
assumption used by Company A was, in part, based  on land sticking  in the market place. 
Given the conclusions  in both valuers  reports about  marketability impacting on value, had 
the land been marketed,  it may have been possible to get a fairer view of the true market 
value of the land - ie was it in excess of£7,000 per acre as per Company  Bs valuation or 
nearer £5,000 per acre,  which was the at the lower end of Company As valuation (with  the 
higher end being £8,000 per acre). 
Theres nothing within the court  order  that required the SIPP  to be settled in cash, as Suffolk  
Life first suggested. Indeed, looking  at Clause 13 of the court  order, it expected  Ms M to be 
involved in decisions about  the sale (marketing) or retention of the land. Ms M did say that 
she wanted settlement  in cash  (i.e. she didnt want to take ownership of the land or parcels 
of it). But, Ms M has also said, she may have stepped back  from that decision,  if the land 
was only going  to be valued  at £90,000.  
Ms M said she wouldve  pushed for the land to be marketed, had she been told about 
Company As valuation.  
In its latest response, Suffolk Life has mentioned  that it needed  to implement the PSO  within  
four months of the date the requirements were met under the relevant pensions legislation. It 
says these requirements were met on 24 April 2017.  It says it couldnt therefore use any 
future valuations, or marketing information  to inform  that valuation. 
I dont know if Ms M could have stepped back from her decision to take her share  in cash, 
given what Suffolk Life has said about the requirements being met. Suffolk Life did tell Ms M 
that a revaluation could be completed, but only if Mr N agreed  to it. So, it may have been 
possible.
Ref: DRN890924814Suffolk Life has not told me that it gave any consideration to marketing the land to assess 
true market  value, but I also accept that this may not have been possible, if it only had four 
months to give effect to the PSO and had to set a valuation date. On the other hand, if Ms M 
was able to step back  and decide not to take all her share in cash, this may have been 
relevant. Given the uncertainty here, I have not placed any weight on the fact that the land 
might have been marketed to assess true market  value.
Ms M has obtained the Land Registry records  in relation to the sale of this property  and I can 
see from these records the property was sold to Mr N in November 2017 for
£90,000. I think it unlikely  that the land was marketed at that time either. I say this because  
Suffolk Life said it asked Company A if the valuation in the May 2017  report  could be relied 
upon. So, I think it likely that this valuation was again used by Suffolk Life when the land was 
sold to Mr N for £90,000.
I can see from Land Registry records that Mr N then sold on this property a year later, in 
November 2018,  for £135,000. This was 10 months  after Company B valued the land at 
£130,000. It was sold for the same amount in November  2018, that the land was valued 
at in 2010.
Suffolk Life says that the information  about  the onward  sale of the land, after it left the SIPP,  
is irrelevant and I should not take this into account.  Further it says that just because a greater 
sum was paid for the land subsequently,  does not mean that it was not given  a true market  
value at the time. It says there is a clear difference between what an asset is valued at and 
what it is sold for.
In my view, I think it is fair and reasonable to take into account this information  to assess  
whether Ms M is likely  to have lost out because of what Suffolk Life did wrong. Based on 
everything I have seen, I think it more likely that when  the land was valued and disposed of to 
Mr N, it was valued and sold out of the SIPP at an undervalue. I say this because the 
valuation was so much lower than the 2010  valuation, the valuation in 2015, Company Bs 
valuation in January 2018  and what Mr N sold the land for in November 2018. I consider all 
these factors to be relevant when assessing  whether, more likely than not, the value attached 
to the land by Suffolk Life based only on the Company A valuation report, was a true market  
value. 
Aside from the November  2018 sales price, all of this information  was available to Suffolk  Life 
to consider when  it chose  to rely only on Company As valuation. Further the land was sold to 
Mr N at a time when Ms M was still challenging that valuation,  having only recently been told 
about the £90,000 valuation. And unlike  with Mr N, there was no engagement with Ms M 
during the valuation process and she was not given details of the valuation  until very late in 
the day, and at a point in time when she was told it was effectively too late to challenge  it, 
unless Mr N agreed or she took it to court.
I noted in my provisional decision  that the purchaser  of the land in November 2018 was a 
SIPP. Its not possible to see from the Land Registry records  whether this was a SIPP 
connected to Mr N, or not. If it was, then clearly,  he considered the land worth £135,000 to 
him, at that time. If it wasnt, then an independent buyer must have taken the view that this 
was what the land was worth  to them. Suffolk Life points out that the price  paid in 2018 may 
not necessarily reflect  the true market value,  as the purchaser could have been prepared  to 
pay a higher price. I agree thats feasible,  and this is one of the reasons why I have set out in 
my order  for redress that a retrospective  independent valuation as at April 2017,  should be 
undertaken. 
Ref: DRN890924815Further, I have taken  into account that the land was sold a year after it left the SIPP,  and 
property prices can rise and fall. But I dont consider that the date of sale had such a 
significant bearing on the increase in value of the land at that time. In reaching that 
conclusion, I have  taken  into account the earlier valuations  and the comments  made  by 
Company Bs valuer, that there was unlikely  to have been much  difference in the valuation  
price between April 2017 and January 2018.  I think it more likely that 
Company Bs January  2018 valuation provided an accurate reflection of the lands value as 
at that date, and the valuation wouldnt have been significantly different in April/May 2017 
based on Company  Bs assumptions.
Suffolk Life said in its representations  that I expected it to use Company  Bs valuation, which 
was not independently  obtained, over Company As, to assess true market value. I cant see 
any reference to that in my provisional  decision,  so I think  Suffolk Life may be mistaken about 
that. Company  Bs report was not independently  obtained, so it wouldnt have been  fair to rely 
on that valuation  report either. 
Suffolk Life says that I am unable to challenge the valuation provided in 2017 and questions 
my professional qualifications. However, I have not sought to personally value this land. 
Instead my order for redress  makes  provision for an independent RICS qualified surveyor to 
retrospectively value  it.
So, I remain  of the view, that I do not consider that the approach taken by Suffolk Life in 
June 2017 to value the land, led to a fair assessment of true market  value. I am also 
concerned about  the way in which Suffolk  Life approached this valuation, given the legal 
effect of the court order.  In reaching  this conclusion, I have taken into account that Suffolk  
Life was not obliged to rely on the valuation provided by Company A in isolation. I have also 
taken into account  that by the time the valuation was carried out in May 2017, it was clear to 
Suffolk Life that Ms M had a 50% beneficial entitlement in the assets in the SIPP fund and 
yet it appears not to have involved her in the valuation process at all or communicated the 
outcome of the valuation to her in a timely or fair way.
For the reasons  explained above, as I see it, Suffolk  Life has facilitated  the undervalue of the 
land in Mr Ns SIPP. I think that Suffolk  Lifes actions have directly contributed towards  the 
financial loss Ms M has suffered because she has probably not received 50% of the true 
market value of the SIPP  as a direct result of its actions.
fair compensation
This service aims to put the parties  back  into the position they wouldve been in had the error  
or omission  not occurred. 
Here, had Suffolk Life engaged properly with Ms M at the time, Ms M wouldve had joint input 
on the selection of a surveyor to perform the valuation,  which  may have resulted in a different 
valuation, with her 50% share being based on that valuation. 
Alternatively, once  the valuation from Company A was received, Suffolk Life ought to have 
sent it to Ms M or her advisers in a timely  manner. If it had done so, Ms M, as she said, 
wouldve asked the trustees to obtain a further valuation  or asked the trustees to consider 
other ways  of accessing true market  value. I think had Ms M been involved, Suffolk Life fairly 
wouldnt have just relied on Company As valuation  to assess  the true market  value of Mr Ns 
SIPP.
Had Suffolk Life treated  Ms M fairly and reasonably, I dont consider that it would have 
disposed of the property concerned out of the SIPP, treating  the PSO  as settled, relying  on 
Ref: DRN890924816the valuation which was being  queried.  I say this because by doing so, it limited some of the 
options available to Ms M. 
So, taking all the above into account,  I think to assess  fair compensation Suffolk Life should 
fairly:
(1)Carry out a fair and reasonable retrospective  true market value revaluation of Ms Ms 
50% share of Mr Ns SIPP, within a reasonable period of time, taking into account all 
relevant information,  and not limited to Company  As valuation report. For these 
purposes, it should treat the land concerned as having at least  a true market value of 
£122,000, as at 24 April 2017. The valuation should be completed by a RICS 
qualified surveyor. If possible, the surveyor appointed should be one agreed  between  
Mr N, Ms M and Suffolk Life. If this cant be agreed within a reasonable period of 
time, then Ms M should provide Suffolk  Life with details  of three suitable RICS 
qualified surveyors, and Suffolk  Life should,  within a reasonable period of time, 
choose one from these to carry out the valuation.
(2)The minimum value of the land should  be treated as £122,000 because:
a.it was the value used by the actuaries, in the divorce proceedings, to 
calculate a fair division  of assets. Although it was an unaudited valuation,  I 
have not been told that this valuation was challenged by Ms M or Mr N in 
those proceedings,  so it seems it was regarded as an acceptable valuation 
within those proceedings. This figure  was provided to the actuaries by Suffolk 
Life in February 2017, so again  although  unaudited,  it appeared acceptable to 
Suffolk Life at the time of the divorce  proceedings.
b.Had Ms M been allowed to provide input into the valuation of the land,  I 
consider that most likely fairly  and reasonably  Suffolk Life wouldve treated 
the land as being worth more than the valuation given by Company A. 
c.I place more reliance  on the expert opinion given by Company Bs valuer to 
inform my view. I say this because Mr N sold the land 10 months after this 
valuation for £5,000  more than Company B valued it at. And £45,000 more 
than Company A valued it at. It was sold for the same value it was valued at 
in 2010. I take the view that the material difference in valuation between  
Company A and B was not due to the passage of time, but the assumptions 
made by the two valuers around the marketability of the land. Given the sale 
price for the land in November 2018,  I consider  that the assumptions used by 
Company Bs valuer provided a more reliable indicator of the true market 
value.
d.The trustees valuation of the land according to paragraph 16.6 of the 
terms and conditions  of the policy was not limited to using  the 
valuation in Company As report. Given its responsibilities under the 
terms and conditions,  it had to act in a reasonable and equitable  way. 
Had it acted fairly  and reasonably, I think Suffolk  Life would have likely 
attached a value to the land not less than £122,000. I cant  say what 
value wouldve been attached to it. But, for the reasons explained 
above, for redress calculation purposes, I consider that £122,000 is a 
fair minimum  valuation,  taking  into account  all the wider  
circumstances.
Ref: DRN890924817(3)Suffolk Life should then calculate the difference  between  the recalculated  true 
market valuation  of the land as at 24 April 2017  (with a minimum value of £122,000) 
and the £90,000 value  attributed to it. It should,  if possible,  pay 50% of the difference  
into Ms Ms pension  fund. It should  also add simple interest to the amount of her loss 
from the date her share of the PSO  was paid into her pension  fund until settlement is 
paid. The rate of interest is 8% a year .
(4)The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection  or allowance.
(5)If a payment into Ms Ms pension plan isnt possible,  or has protection or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Ms M as a lump sum after making  a notional 
deduction to allow  for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If 25% of the 
loss could have  been taken as tax-free  cash and 75% would  have been  taxed  
according to her likely  income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So 
making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
(6)Suffolk Life should pay Ms M £500 for the distress and inconvenience she has been  
caused to her retirement planning  by its handling  of this.
 If HM Revenue & Customs requires Suffolk Life to take off tax from this interest.  
it must give Ms M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for 
one.
Suffolk Life didnt eventually require Ms M to meet her share of the cost of Company As 
valuation report.  So, I cant see that shes lost out because shes  paid for two separate  
valuations. So, I make no award in relation to the payment of Company  Bs valuation report. 
Suffolk Life should, however, cover the cost of the new valuation report to be obtained, as 
referred to above.  This third report wouldnt have been required had Suffolk Life dealt with 
the valuation in a fair way upfront. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold this complaint and order  Suffolk Life Annuities  
Limited to pay Ms M fair compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8909248