K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the delay to the transfer  of the pension  he held with his employer into 
his self-invested personal pension (SIPP) held with Standard Life Savings Limited (Standard 
Life). He says he was given a timescale to transfer of around 10 days but this wasnt  
adhered to, and as a result he says hes received a lower transfer value that he should have 
had.
background
On 14 September 2018 Mr H asked his financial adviser to transfer  the pension  he held with 
his employer to his Standard Life SIPP. The adviser sent the required paperwork to 
Standard Life and when  he called  on 20 September 2018 to check  the timescales  involved 
he was informed it usually  took around  10 working days  for internal  transfers. But when 
Mr H and his adviser  asked for an update  five days later they were told that as the 
employers pension was trust  based, the scheme  administrator would need to provide a 
transfer pack  including a declaration Mr H needed to sign  before the transfer could be 
completed.
Mr H received the information from the administrator in mid-October 2018. He moved the 
money held in the pension to a cash fund and decided  to put the transfer on hold. But in the 
meantime Mr H complained to Standard Life as he said the delay  in transferring meant  he 
wouldnt receive  the transfer  value that was applicable on the day he expected  to transfer  to 
complete  which was day 10 of the process.
Standard Life said it hadnt realised  there was a master  trust involved with his pension  and 
accepted that it could have managed his expectations better  regarding  the overall timescale 
for processing such a transfer. It offered Mr H £100 for not recognising the extra work 
involved and not accounting for it within the timescales it stated. But it thought it had acted 
within its own service standards and not caused  any delay.  
Mr H maintained that hed lost over £9,000, based  on up to date transfer valuations,  so he 
wasnt happy with Standard Lifes offer and referred  his complaint to us. 
In February 2019  Mr H instructed his adviser to go ahead with the transfer  and by 
6 March 2019 the funds were in his Standard  Life SIPP  and invested in line with his 
requirements. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
He was satisfied Standard  Life processed  the transfer in a reasonable timeframe but said the 
process couldnt  have  continued without the involvement of the administrator  who needed 
authorisation from the scheme  trustees. He said Mr H had previously said he wouldve 
continued with a transfer even if Standard  Life had set realistic expectations.
But he said that, although he didnt believe Standard  Life gave a conclusive timescale for the 
overall transfer,  it recognised it didnt  fully account for the administrators role and so he 
thought its offer of £100 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr H didnt agree.  He said the assessment had been unfairly  based on the fact that he was 
an employee of Standard Life and should  have understood the process. He said he didnt 
deal with that type of transfer  and didnt have the knowledge that the adjudicator  thought he 
did. He also didnt agree  with the adjudicators conclusions  about the amount of investment 
loss he may have suffered because of the difference between  the funds he held in his SIPP 
Ref: DRN88129372against those held by his employers pension. He wanted his complaint to be reviewed again  
so its been passed to me for a review and a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicators assessment and for largely the same reasons. I realise this 
isnt an outcome Mr H wanted so Ill explain  why.
Ive seen that Standard Life received Mr Hs transfer  request on 17 September  2018 and 
sent the relevant forms to the scheme  administrator on 20 September  2018  who confirmed 
receipt on 24 September 2018. So I think Standard Life started  the transfer process  in a 
timely fashion and without  causing  delay. It also confirmed  during a telephone 
conversation with Mr Hs adviser,  that it had received all the necessary paperwork and 
suggested the transfer could take around 10 working days. And I think this information was 
largely correct because there didnt appear  to be any outstanding requirements.
But the timescale Standard Life suggested was based on an internal transfer,  but it didnt 
take into consideration that the pension scheme operated  under a trust. This meant that the 
trustees of the scheme needed  to authorise the transfer and had their own requirements 
which needed satisfying  before they would transfer  any funds. 
Mr H has said that his adviser was given a clear timescale for the transfer during the 
telephone conversation and no mention was made  about the involvement  of the 
administrator. So Ive listened  carefully to the call in which Mr Hs adviser  says hes calling 
as hes looking for a timescale. Standard Lifes employee said  after reading notes on the 
case  nothing further required so this will be an internal transfer,  is it an internal transfer, is 
that what it is?  Mr Hs adviser said he wasnt sure if (the administrator) need to be in this 
bit or not, whether  it would  hold things up, thats  all Im thinking . The response was if its an 
internal transfer  normally should be taking a week or so. Its hard to give a timescale right 
now, maybe call back  early  next week?
So I think Standard  Life did make an error  there  by advising Mr Hs adviser that the transfer  
could complete in a timescale that clearly was very unlikely. I can understand why it might 
have considered the transfer to be internal as Mr H worked for Standard  Life and it was the 
Standard Life Pension Scheme.  But as Ive said it was administered  by a separate business 
and had different  trustees whose involvement  would be required to allow the transfer  to 
happen.  I note Standard  Life didnt  guarantee how long the transfer might take  it also said 
that it was hard to give a timescale. But I think overall it did raise Mr Hs expectations by not 
confirming the role of the administrator and the effect that might  have  on how long the 
transfer might take.  
Mr H says his adviser wasnt made  aware that the administrator would  even be involved at 
that time.  But I dont  agree as Mr Hs adviser made  several references to the administrator 
during the call. In addition to the reference  Ive set out above he also asked if (the 
administrator) needs to be involved when he asked  for the likely timescales. Standard Life 
also made reference to the administrator, so I think its clear both parties  were  aware of its 
possible involvement. But I think Standard Life did make an error by not realising that 
involving the administrator and trustees  in a pension transfer  would, in all probability, add to 
the overall time needed to complete the transfer.
Ref: DRN88129373But although  Standard Life may have raised  Mr Hs expectations of how long the transfer 
might take,  Ive gone on to consider what actually would have happened had Standard Life 
provided more accurate  information. Once  Standard  Life sent the forms to the administrator 
 who Im satisfied, was a separate regulated entity  it wasnt  in a position to complete the 
transfer or indeed to affect the time it took without authorisation from the trustees. So 
whatever information  it may have given to Mr H and his adviser  the transfer process  here 
would have been the same. 
If Standard Life had said that the administrator would need to satisfy its own transfer 
requirements, which would have given Mr H and his adviser a better understanding of what  
might be involved, the transfer would still have taken just as long and would have depended 
entirely on communication between Mr H and the administrator.  So I dont think  Standard 
Life can be held accountable for any delays  and potential investment  loss because it could 
no longer directly influence the process once  it sent the transfer documents to the 
administrator. And Mr H has previously advised us that he was likely to have  continued with 
the transfer even  if hed been advised of the more realistic timescale  involved.  
Its unfortunate that Standard Life didnt  appreciate  the overall transfer requirements  when it 
spoke to Mr Hs adviser  and I can understand how frustrated Mr H would have been when 
he discovered that the suggested timescale  had already been exceeded before he was 
made aware  that further documentation, with a third party, was necessary. But that was 
always going to be the situation  with this transfer and would have been the position 
regardless what Mr H had been  told. 
However, as Ive said Standard Life did provide inaccurate information and while the 
timescale it mentioned  wasnt guaranteed  and was only a guide  based on a typical  internal 
transfer  which this wasnt   it did have some impact on Mr H by raising his expectations of 
how quickly the transfer might be completed. This also meant  he became aware of a transfer 
value he could have  achieved if his transfer  had completed within  that suggested  
timescale. But Standard Life has acknowledged this and offered  Mr H £100 for any distress 
and inconvenience  this caused him.
In the circumstances of this complaint  I do consider that offer to be fair and reasonable for 
the impact the information had in raising Mr Hs expectations around  completing the transfer.  
I think its an appropriate amount for the amount of distress  and inconvenience  caused and I 
wont be asking Standard Life to do anything further. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Standard  Life Savings Limited should pay Mr H £100 if it hasnt 
already done so. But I make no further award.
  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN88129374ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812937