K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS).
background
In 1998 Mr and Mrs S applied for a mortgage with BOS. At the same time they took out a 
PPI policy  in Mr Ss sole name  to protect  their repayments if Mr S lost his job or was unable 
to work due to accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as he thought the paperwork  
suggested the policy was optional and thought  it provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr and Mrs S disagree. They say they didnt know they had PPI. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
The policy was sold during a meeting. BOS had to make it clear  the PPI was optional  and 
that Mr and Mrs S agreed to take it. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know  they had PPI and 
havent given  us much detail  about what happened when they took out their mortgage.  But I 
think thats understandable as the PPI was sold over 20 years  ago. So Ive relied more  on 
what the documents from the time show and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  and can see in the PPI section it was 
recommended that they consider PPI and they were asked if they wanted PPI. I can see that 
the Yes  box has been ticked  and both Mr and Mrs S have signed next to this. 
I think from the way PPI was presented here it makes it clear PPI was optional. And if Mr 
and Mrs S didnt want PPI they couldve ticked  next to the option not to take it. 
Ive also seen a copy of the PPI application form. The application form was entirely  separate 
from the mortgage and allowed for joint cover but was completed and signed solely by Mr S. 
So I think its likely Mr and Mrs S wouldve understood they couldve taken joint cover but 
chose to take cover for Mr S only  perhaps  because Mr S was the main income earner at 
the time.  
To be fair to Mr and Mrs S I am going to treat this as an advised sale  this puts them in the 
best position. What  this means is that BOS not only had to provide information about  PPI in 
a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs S could  make  an informed choice 
about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy  
was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN81800842I dont know if BOS  took all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr S for the following reasons:
He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
I havent been provided with any details about sick pay Mr S mayve  been entitled to, but 
he says he wouldve been entitled  to a redundancy package.  The policy  wouldve paid 
out on top of any work benefits and covered  their mortgage payments for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr S was too sick to work or lost his job. 
And although it was possible for Mr and Mrs S to split the benefit of the policy for the 
same cost, I havent seen  any evidence that Mrs S wouldve  needed to claim  so they 
are no worse  off having the policy in Mr Ss sole name.  
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs S in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to Mr and Mrs S at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted the policy  they could cancel  it. 
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr and Mrs S information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I can see that the costs of PPI were clear on the 
application form but I dont know if BOS gave  all the information as it shouldve. But for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what  Mr and Mrs S have  told us 
about their circumstances at the time,  I think  they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  if 
theyd been given all the proper information at the time of sale.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But BOS  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because:  
When the policy  was sold, BOS expected to get a high level of commission  and profit  
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about 
that. Because BOS didnt tell Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN81800843my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8180084