K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest/the bank) sent them  a 
letter that appeared to remove their rights to paper statements.
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs E received a letter telling  them the bank  would be sending 
statements electronically rather than in paper format.  They  complained to the bank and the 
bank explained  that the letter  did give them  an opportunity  to change the way statements 
were received online and to revert back to paper. They have  now been switched back  to 
paper statements but they believe the banks poorly worded letter would leave  many  
customers thinking they had no option but to accept  statements electronically. 
Theyd therefore like the bank to write  to all of their customers explaining that they can have 
paper statements and to reinstate paper statements for all those whove been automatically 
switched. 
Mr and Mrs E were  unhappy with the banks response so they referred  their complaint to this 
service. Our adjudicator noted  that the banks  letter  had explained that preferences for 
receiving statements could be changed by going on line and amending  preferences. So he 
didnt think it would  be reasonable to say the bank  had removed the right to paper 
statements. He also didnt  think Mr and Mrs E had been unduly affected by the banks letter 
as he noted the bank  had been able to help them reset their preferences  in August and 
theyd reverted to paper statements.  
He went on to explain that, whilst he understood Mr and Mrs E were  concerned  about  the 
impact the banks letter could have on other customers, this service was set up to handle 
individual disputes and he could only look at the individual circumstances  of the complaint 
they were making  in their own right. He explained  that the Financial Conduct Authority would 
be able to look at the overall policies and practices  of regulated businesses  but not this 
service.
But Mr and Mrs E disagreed. They focussed  on the impact NatWests action had on them. 
They said the wording  of the letter had been  poor and NatWest were  trying to push them 
towards paperless systems by default.  They  said NatWest should apologise to them  and 
rectify the situation  for others, and they asked for a final decision on the matter from an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr and Mrs E but I dont think NatWest need to take any further  
action here.  Please let me explain  why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about, it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome.
The letter Mr and Mrs E were sent in July 2018  said:
Ref: DRN88779012You can manage your preferences for how we communicate statement information  to you at 
any time by logging into Online Banking. Just click on Paperless settings 
I think it was reasonable  to expect Mr and Mrs E to understand how to do this because  
NatWest were aware they already used online facilities.
I think this statement does  explain to Mr and Mrs E that there are alternative  ways that the 
bank may communicate  with them  and that they can change  these  methods.
I also note that Mr and Mrs E were able to change the method the next month;  without any 
obstacles being put in their way. So it wouldnt be reasonable  of me to make  a finding 
NatWest removed their rights to paper communication. 
As the adjudicator has explained, this service is able to resolve disputes  between individuals 
and regulated businesses. I can comment on the dispute between  Mr and Mrs E and 
NatWest, but not on the broader  issue of NatWests communication strategy and policy.  That 
wouldnt be reasonable and would be the responsibility of the regulator: the FCA.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8877901