K821x#15complaint
Miss F complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) mis-sold her a regular premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss F took out the policy when  applying for a store  card in 1997.  The policy cost £64 per 
£100 of the balance on Miss Fs store card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the store card if Miss F was unable  to work due to 
disability or lost her job. The benefit would continue to be paid until Miss F returned  to work. 
Our adjudicator thought Miss Fs complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  Allianz  
had given clear  enough  information about  the costs and benefits  of the policy.  He didnt think 
Miss F in her circumstances wouldve  been  able to benefit from the benefits of the policy.  He 
thought if she had understood this she wouldnt have taken the policy.
Allianz disagree. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Fs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Allianz were under  a duty to provide Miss F with information on PPI in a clear, fair and non-
misleading way so she could make  an informed choice about whether or not she wanted to 
accept the offer of PPI.
I dont think Allianz did give Miss F clear  enough information about whether she would be 
eligible for cover under  the policy for all the benefits. I think this because  to be eligible for the 
disability and unemployment cover under the policy  Miss F had to be in regular active 
paid work  for 16 or more  hours per week.  
Miss F says that she was working  less than 16 hours a week  when she bought the policy. I 
can see on the store card agreement Miss F ticked to say she was earning  less than £5,000  
per year. So on balance  I think it is unlikely she was working 16 hours a week or more and 
meet the eligibility criteria  to have cover  under  the policy. 
And although I accept  the eligibility criteria is briefly listed within  the PPI section its in very 
small font and not highlighted  in any way. I dont think Miss F wouldve agreed to take a 
policy she couldnt benefit from. So I dont think the eligibility criteria was made sufficiently 
clear to Miss F before  she agreed to take the policy. 
As a consequence Miss F has lost out as a result  of Allianzs failings in this case.
what Allianz should do to put things  right
Ref: DRN80031532Allianz should put Miss F in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Allianz should:
Pay Miss F the amount she paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Miss F made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Allianz can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Allianz to take off tax from this interest. Allianz  must  give 
Miss F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Fs complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc and 
direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8003153