K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited gave poor service  under a home 
emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr R says his wife is disabled. Mr R says his central heating  boiler  was about eight years 
old. 
He had a policy branded  with the name of an insurance intermediary. Acromas was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to Acromas  or the insurer, I include 
the intermediary,  its engineers and others for whose actions I hold Acromas responsible.
Mr R had Complete Home and Heating  cover.  That provided for the repair of his boiler. 
Alternatively, if it was beyond economic repair (BER), the insurer  would make a payment 
towards a new one (a BER payment). The BER payment would be of £500.00  if the boiler 
was less than seven years old. But  for a boiler  more than seven years old  the BER 
payment was £250.00. 
After Mr R reported that his boiler wasnt working,  Acromas sent an engineer  on Saturday 9 
December 2017.  Mr R later said he didnt have confidence in that engineer.  But he got the 
boiler going.  On  Monday 11 December it broke down again  and Acromas sent a second 
engineer who didnt fix it. The insurer said the boiler was BER.
Mr R complained that the first Acromas engineer negligently caused  him the need  to replace 
his central heating boiler. He had to pay for a new boiler that cost him £2,640.00.
In a final response letter, the intermediary  said the first engineer  misdiagnosed the problem 
with the boiler   but that didnt make any difference because it was BER. The intermediary  
offered a BER payment of £250.00 and said it was paying an extra  £100.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought it likely that 
whatever the first engineer did caused the subsequent leak and further damage to the boiler. 
The investigator said Acromas had deprived Mr R of an estimated seven more  years of use 
of his boiler out of an estimated fifteen year lifetime . The investigator said that Acromas 
should reimburse Mr R that fraction of the cost of his new boiler.  The investigator 
recommended that Acromas should pay Mr R £1,232.00 plus 8% per year simple interest for 
the time hes been out of pocket.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr R 
and to Acromas on 6 February 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I didnt think there was enough  technical  evidence to show that the first engineer 
actually caused  damage to the old boilers  heat exchanger, pump or PCB.
Ref: DRN86147612The second  engineer identified water  damage. And I didnt find it likely that such  
damage had happened  suddenly over the course  of one weekend.
I wasnt minded to find it fair and reasonable to hold Acromas responsible for 
damage to Mr Rs old boiler  or to direct  Acromas to pay compensation beyond the 
£250.00 BER payment.
Subject to any further information from Mr R or from Acromas, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I wasnt minded to direct  Acromas Insurance  
Company Limited  to do anything further in response  to Mr Rs complaint.
Acromas agrees with the provisional decision.
Mr R disagrees  with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary that:
Acromas were  clearly negligent.
If the boiler was written off, he was entitled  to £250.00, but there was some dispute 
over whether he would be entitled  to £500.00  as it was marginal how old it was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provided  that the BER payment was subject to filling  in a form and providing a 
copy of the invoice for the new boiler.
Mr R hasnt said his boiler was less than seven  years old. He has said it was about  eight  
years old. 
Ive seen the report of the last service the insurer did. Its undated but I accept  Mr Rs 
statement that it had been recent.  It didnt record any problems  with the boiler  such as 
corrosion or leaks. 
The engineer on 9 December didnt make  a good impression on Mr R. The engineer asked 
to borrow tools and had to make a telephone  call to ask for advice on what  to do.
Our investigator asked  Acromas for the first engineers report. But it hasnt provided a copy.  
So I accept  Mr Rs statement that the boiler  wasnt leaking water at that time. And I accept 
his statement that the engineer got the boiler  working but didnt explain how.
Only a couple of days  later, the second  engineer inspected the boiler. Ive seen his report.  It 
says that there was a major leak from two locations on the main heat exchanger. He said the 
boiler needed a new heat exchanger, a new pump and a new printed circuit  board (PCB).
I find it likely  that the cost of those  parts  exceeded the value of the eight-year old boiler.  So I 
dont find that the insurer  treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably by saying it was BER and 
declining to repair it.
I accept that Mr Rs wife was upset by what the insurer said. 
Ref: DRN86147613But the final response letter said the insurer was paying £100.00 compensation. I think that 
was enough to compensate Mr R for the extra distress  and inconvenience  he suffered  at 
an already difficult time - through any shortcomings  in the way the insurer dealt with his 
claim and his complaint.
Mr R has sent us the invoice for supplying and fitting his new boiler. That was for £2,640.00 
including VAT. The invoice is undated but I accept Mr Rs statement that he received it on 14 
December 2017.
I accept that  in the final response letter  the intermediary said the first engineer had mis-
diagnosed the boiler.  But neither  the insurer nor Mr R has given any details of what  his 
incorrect diagnosis was.
And I dont  think theres enough technical evidence to show that the first engineer actually 
caused damage to the old boilers heat exchanger,  pump or PCB.  The second engineer 
identified water damage. And I dont find it likely that such  damage had happened suddenly  
over the course  of one weekend.
Therefore  unlike  the investigator   I dont find it fair and reasonable to hold Acromas  
responsible for damage to Mr Rs old boiler   or to direct Acromas  to pay compensation 
beyond the £250.00 BER payment.
I expect Acromas to send Mr R the form to claim the BER payment.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to do anything further in response  to Mr Rs 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8614761