K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1999 at the same  time as taking a credit card. To apply for the 
credit card and PPI policy she filled in an application form.
At the time,  Mrs W worked as a carer  and had been with her employer for two years. From 
what she has told us, she was entitled  to no more than statutory benefits for sickness  and 
redundancy and didnt  have anything else with which  to pay her card if she couldnt work. 
Mrs W has told us she suffered  from two ongoing,  serious health conditions  that were  either 
degenerative or unpredictable with the potential to worsen. From what  shes  told us, at the 
time of the sale Mrs W had suffered from both conditions for a few years  but hadnt  missed 
any work as a result of either condition.
The policy provided  cover  for disability  and unemployment, and also had life cover, subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ws credit  card balance in the 
event of a successful claim for disability or unemployment.  The life cover  would, subject to 
its terms, clear  the account  balance  on death.  
The policy at the time cost 77p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance.  The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract interest.
Lloyds has sent us statements to show the credit card account was closed in 2006. 
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Mrs Ws representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt have taken out 
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Mrs Ws representatives believe there to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Mrs W about  
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs W and the impact they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN81489592The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was concluded in 2006.  That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN81489593I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or damage 
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mrs Ws credit  card application form 
had a separate section for the PPI  listed  under  the heading  Optional Features. And this 
had boxes to tick to say either yes or no to the PPI. On Mrs Ws form, which she signed  to 
Ref: DRN81489594take the card, the yes box is ticked - and I think she wouldve known she couldve ticked  
no instead if she didnt  want  the cover. Taking  everything into account,  I think  its more  
likely that Mrs W knew the policy was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Both Lloyds  and Mrs W agree that advice was provided during this sale. This means Lloyds 
had to advise  Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was 
appropriate or suitable given her needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mrs W. There is no record of what was said in any discussion about the 
policy. Lloyds had some  limited information  about  Mrs Ws financial circumstances, but there 
is no specific evidence to show  that Lloyds took steps to establish whether Mrs W would 
have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant the 
policy did not fully meet her needs.  For example, there is nothing to suggest Lloyds 
considered what  sickness  or redundancy pay Mrs W would  get from her employer.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities I am not persuaded that Lloyds  did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mrs W given her circumstances.  So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely Mrs Ws ability to continue  to meet her 
credit card repayments would have  been put under strain if she was not working  for an 
extended period  of time  even  allowing for any statutory benefits  she was entitled  to.
-There was nothing  about Mrs Ws employment or occupation which would  have made it 
difficult for her to claim. She had health  issues - and disability occurring  within 12 months 
of the policy  start due to an existing health  issue wasnt covered. But existing health  
issues were covered for disability occurring after that and Mrs Ws health  issues hadnt 
yet caused her to miss work.  With that in mind,  and bearing  in mind  that Mrs Ws health 
issues either could  or were likely  to worsen in future and the potential value to Mrs W in 
these circumstances  of cover arising after 12 months for those existing health issues,  I 
dont think the exclusions and limitations made the policy unsuitable for Mrs W. Also 
there were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or back  problems.
-Although Mrs W says she was financially stretched at the time, Ive seen nothing else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each disability 
or unemployment claim, it still provided  useful cover  given Mrs Ws circumstances.
the information
Ref: DRN81489595Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mrs W sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs W was given a very broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mrs W would have taken the policy  without any sense 
of what the policy was. Also the application  form she signed described the policy as card 
payment protection in case she was made unemployed or off work due to accident or 
sickness - which  would have given her some  idea of what  the policy  was for. 
Also the application  form said the protection could be taken at 77p per month per £100  
outstanding balance  so Im satisfied that Mrs W ought reasonably to have understood the 
policy cost 77p per month per £100  of the statement balance.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mrs W 
agreed to take out the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded that Lloyds gave Mrs W all the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take the policy.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and explained 
the significance  of them to her.
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say  
I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
Ref: DRN81489596claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mrs W? To what extent did Mrs W 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded that Lloyds took the steps  it should  have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mrs W, Ive found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken  the policy in any 
event.
Mrs W says she would not have  taken it and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they dont have  insurance,  should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mrs W had some interest in taking payment protection  
insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds offered  the PPI or advised her there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her credit card payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, she concluded she wanted  
that product.  But she made that decision based  on incomplete information,  meaning what 
she thought she was getting  is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs W ought reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance.  
But, I accept that Lloyds didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mrs W 
didnt know some things,  the ultimate position  in the event of a successful claim was not 
dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the information  she based her 
decision to take the policy on and found acceptable.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
Ref: DRN81489597The policy excluded disability occurring within 12 months of the policy start due to a 
pre-existing health issue (a health  issue in the 12 months  before the policy  start that 
Mrs W knew about (or shouldve know about) or about which in the 12 months  before the 
start date she had seen  or arranged to see a doctor); 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The provision that disability and unemployment  cover would end when Mrs W turned 65 
(or, for unemployment cover, started to receive  a state pension).
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations or exclusions  above  might well have 
caused Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality.
Mrs W wasnt covered  for disability occurring within 12 months of the policy  start due to an 
existing health  issue. But existing health  issues were covered for disability occurring after 
that. Mrs Ws health issues hadnt caused  her to miss work but her health issues  either could  
or were likely to worsen - so there was a real possibility  she might in future miss work  due to 
those issues. In those  circumstances  I think its likely policy cover arising after 12 months for 
those existing issues wouldve appeared valuable to Mrs W. With all this in mind,  overall  I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put Mrs W off taking the PPI. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I think she still had some good reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mrs W 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
To make a disability claim, Mrs W needed to be left totally  unable to do her normal  work and 
not be doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different  to what  she would 
have expected to make a claim.  The credit  card application form says the policy  provides 
cover should I be off work due to accident or sickness. It seems  unlikely Mrs W would have 
thought shed be able to make a successful claim if she was still working,  whether  doing her 
normal work or any other  work.
Mrs W has complained she ceased to be eligible to claim on the policy  while it was in force 
because she turned 75. Her credit agreement and policy in fact ended before she turned 60. 
But in any case,  Mrs W was in her early fifties  when she took the PPI, so I think  its more  
likely than not shed  have thought shed still get some value out of having it, as it would have 
covered her for disability and unemployment for a reasonable period of time before she 
turned 65 (or, for the unemployment  cover, started  receiving her state  pension).
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs W would still have taken the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  
Ref: DRN81489598she thought she was getting  and, aside from statutory benefits, she didnt have any means 
with which  to meet her credit card payments if she were unable to work  due to accident, 
sickness or redundancy. And in those circumstances  I consider it more likely than not that 
she would  have taken  the policy in any event.   
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs W would  not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mrs W wouldnt have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude that Lloyds should  pay Mrs W compensation, as that would put her in a better 
position than she would  have been  in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware that Mrs W thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mrs W, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ref: DRN81489599Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs W and about  the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8148959