K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  sold in 1995. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for 
the sale. So to keep things simple in my decision Ill just say FICL when Im referring to the 
PPI seller or to FICL. Miss B says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Miss B and FICL a provisional decision explaining I planned to uphold  the complaint. 
I said Id consider anything else Miss B and FICL wanted to give me by 26 March  2019. Ive 
received nothing new from FICL or Miss B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Bs complaint because I dont think FICL  made  it clear  enough  to 
Miss B that she had a choice about  buying the policy. I say this because what  Ive seen 
doesnt make me think FICL did give Miss B a clear  enough choice about this.
The PPI was added to Miss Bs account  when  she took out her account in a shop.  She says 
the card was offered to her at the till with 10% off her goods. She says to her recollection the 
female till person  filled out the form and nothing was mentioned about PPI or insurance. 
Shes also said it wasnt made clear to her that the card and the PPI were separate  products.
Given how long ago Miss B took out her card, I wouldnt expect her memory  of the sale to be 
vivid. She hasnt said anything to make me think she did agree to the PPI knowing she didnt 
have to. But given  the time that has passed, what she has said isnt on its own enough  to 
make me think FICL didnt tell her about the PPI or didnt make  it clear enough that she 
didnt have to have it. But Ive also considered everything else I have.
I dont have a script  from the time to show how FICL  mightve presented  the PPI to Miss B. 
But I do have a copy of the credit  agreement she signed to take the card. The PPI section 
has equally  noticeable boxes giving a choice to say either yes or no to the PPI. But taking 
into account all the writing and marks on the form, I dont think  FICL drew Miss Bs attention 
to that section of the form or to the choice  set out there. And although Miss Bs form was 
ticked to express a preference for the PPI, from what Ive seen I dont think Miss Bs view 
about the PPI was reached with the benefit  of the clear choice given on the form.
Taking everything into account,  what I have on balance makes me think FICL didnt make it 
clear to Miss B that she had a choice about  taking  the PPI. So I think  Miss B took out the 
policy even though she didnt really want it. And I think I should  uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN80097802putting things right
I understand Miss Bs card account  is still open. FICL should put Miss B in the financial 
position shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI. The policy  should  be cancelled  if it 
hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.FICL  should find out how much Miss B would owe on her card if the policy  hadnt  been 
added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. FICL should then refund the 
difference between  what  Miss B owes and what she would have owed.
If Miss B made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when FICL works  out what Miss B would have owed each  month without PPI  
Miss B paid more  than enough to clear  her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest 
on the extra Miss B paid.  And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when 
Miss B wouldve owed FICL something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate should be 
8% a year.
C.FICL  should tell Miss B what its done  to work out A and B.
FICL can deduct from the redress shown any commission redress paid to Miss B by the 
lender if the commission  redress relates  to this PPI sale.
 FICL has to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Miss B can reclaim the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8009780