K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies  taken out in 
2000 and 2003. Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them  the 
PPI.
Mr and Mrs H bought  a regular premium PPI policy  alongside a mortgage  in 2000 and a 
Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside a further advance  in 2003. TMPP can be 
split into sections  Mortgage Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover and 
critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs H have complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the sale 
of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
The PPI taken in 2000 covered Mr H only so I have mainly considered his circumstances at 
the time.  The TMPP policy taken in 2003  provided  cover form Mr and Mrs H on a 75/25 split 
in favour  of Mr H.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs H aware that the PPI policies were optional and gain their 
consent before adding  the policies to their mortgage  and further advance. I dont  know for 
certain what was said when the policies were sold. But Halifax has provided a copy of the 
paperwork available from the time.
From the sale of the PPI in 2000 Halifax has provided a copy  of a separate  application form 
Mr H completed  to take PPI. Mr H signed the application form separately to agreeing with 
the mortgage.
There isnt much paperwork  available  from the sale in 2003,  but from what we know  about 
how Halifax sold this type of policy at the time Mr and Mrs H took it out, I think its likely 
Halifax made Mr and Mrs H aware the PPI was optional, and they chose  to take it out.
Overall I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs H would have been aware that the PPI policies were  
optional, and they chose to take them out, although I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs H so it had to check that the policies 
were right for them.  Mr and Mrs H have told us that they would both have  received  generous  
sick pay at the time they took the PPI policies. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mr and Mrs Hs sick pay and for longer.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time they took each  policy 
they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to 
have had a need for the cover. So I think the policies  were right for them.
Ref: DRN88314752Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI policies wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think they chose to take them out - so it looks  like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the policies were affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI policies  would have put them off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H have said, including that their complaint  is 
similar to others that have already been upheld.  But each case is considered on its own 
merits and the outcome  of other  cases would  not affect the outcome of theirs.  So these 
points dont change  my decision.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay pack all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But for the policy sold to Mr and Mrs H in 2000  Halifax will pay back  some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Halifax has also told us that it doesnt  think it done anything  wrong  when it sold Mr and 
Mrs H the policy in 2003, and as I dont  think this policy was mis-sold  Halifax doesnt need  to 
refund everything  Mr and Mrs H paid for it. But Halifax has offered to pay back  some of the 
cost of the policy. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8831475