K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax didnt stop unauthorised 
payments being  taken  from his account.
background
In 2018, a payment was taken from Mr Cs Halifax credit card account by a merchant which 
Ill call A. Mr C contacted Halifax to let them know he didnt recognise  the transaction. Halifax 
refunded the payment and logged  the transaction as fraudulent. But, over the next couple of 
months, further payments to A were taken from Mr Cs account. Mr C contacted  Halifax 
again and asked them to stop all payments to A. 
Halifax raised chargeback  claims to dispute  the payments. They refunded  Mr Cs account 
while the claims were investigated.  But Mr C says the payments were being taken under a 
Continuous Payment  Authority (CPA) and that Halifax shouldve  cancelled it when he told 
them he hadnt  consented to the payments.  He says that, because they didnt do so, A was 
able to take the further payments. 
Mr C says he contacted  A himself  in the end and that the payments have since stopped. But 
hes unhappy with the way Halifax dealt  with the situation. He says they were unwilling to 
cancel the CPA and gave  him inconsistent information about how to deal with the situation. 
So he says he had to put a lot of time and effort into sorting it out himself.
When Mr C complained to Halifax, they didnt uphold his complaint. They said theyd 
followed their internal process and refunded the fraudulent transactions.  They said that, 
because the payment to A had been set up as a CPA, they couldnt stop it because A was in 
control of it. They said theyd added A to a stop service. But they said they couldnt stop any 
future transactions because Mr Cs card was a credit  card,  meaning that payments were  
guaranteed. They said that Mr C should monitor his account and they would refund any 
further payments  which he told them about. 
Mr C wasnt happy with Halifaxs  response  so he brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought  that Halifax should have done more  to stop 
the payments.  She recommended that they pay compensation of £100  to Mr C for the 
distress and inconvenience hed suffered.
Mr C accepted our investigators findings. But Halifax didnt agree. They said theyd done 
everything they could  to stop the payments  but they couldnt  stop a CPA. They said theyd 
helped Mr C in relation to each  transaction  and followed their processes  correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN86087712The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations) are relevant here. Its accepted 
by both parties that the payments to A were being  taken  under a CPA. But Mr C made it 
clear to Halifax that he hadnt  consented  to the payments. So, under the Regulations, the 
payments were unauthorised and Id expect  Halifax to have  stopped them. 
Halifax say they did all they could but they cant stop a CPA. I dont think thats a satisfactory 
response. I realise  CPAs can be difficult for the customers bank to cancel as they dont 
always have much information about  the payments. But its clear that the payments to A 
were unauthorised and Halifax were  aware of this. And under the Regulations, Halifax must  
refund any unauthorised payments. So I would  have expected Halifax  to stop all payments to 
A as Mr C had asked. Although that may have been  difficult, I think  they should have been 
able to find a solution which didnt disadvantage Mr C.
But Halifaxs  solution was to raise chargeback claims and to ask Mr C to monitor  his account  
and let them  know each  time any further  payments were taken by A. I dont think  that 
approach was fair. If theyd taken steps  to stop the CPA when Mr C first told them  he didnt 
consent to the payments, the later transactions could have been stopped. And Mr C would 
have had peace of mind  that no further  payments  could be taken by A. But Halifaxs 
approach caused  further worry and inconvenience for Mr C.
He says he spent  a considerable amount of time contacting Halifax  to try and sort out the 
situation. But he wasnt confident in their response  and was worried  that further payments 
could still be taken from his account. Mr C says he doesnt use the account regularly and 
wouldnt necessarily become aware  straight  away of any further unauthorised transactions. 
So he says the situation had the potential to adversely affect his credit file. I can understand 
that would  have been a source of concern.
Mr C referred  to the Regulations in his communications  with Halifax, and asked them to stop 
the payments.  But because  he wasnt satisfied  with their approach, he says he had to go to 
the trouble of contacting  A himself. That resolved the situation. But I think Halifax  should 
have done more to help Mr C and meet their obligations under the Regulations.
I think Halifax should pay some compensation to Mr C to reflect this. Taking everything into 
account, I think £100 would be appropriate here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay 
compensation of £100 to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8608771