K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mrs B on behalf of her husband, the late Mr B, and herself. 
In the hope that Mrs B wont mind, I will refer to the late Mr B as Mr B throughout this 
decision.
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc, trading at the time as Halifax, mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2005 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £200.48  a month which  was 133%  of their 
monthly mortgage repayment. So this would cover not only Mr and Mrs Bs monthly 
mortgage repayment of £150.74  but also help with other related expenses, in the event of a 
successful claim. At the time, it cost £11.91 a month. 
At the time,  Mrs B was employed as a laundry  assistant. She has told us she was entitled to 
statutory sick pay and redundancy  pay but she didnt have any other means of repaying their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs B has said she was in good health at the time 
of the sale. Mrs B made  a successful claim on the policy in 2008.
Mr B wasnt  covered by the policy but from what we have  been told Mr B wasnt  working  at 
the time of the sale.
Halifax has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in May 2005.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Halifax  should have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN85769352The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in March 2005  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005.  So the FSAs 
and the FCAs  overarching principles for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB) are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Ref: DRN85769353Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN85769354Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent they 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  Halifax doesnt have all of the 
paperwork from that time, which isnt surprising considering this was more than 13 years 
ago. So I need to decide what I think is more likely to have happened.
Halifax has been able to give me a copy of the quotation that was issued to Mrs B and I can 
see this refers to her choosing to take out the cover and also confirms  that she has the right 
to cancel  the direct  debit for the cover at any time.  This document also lists questions  that 
have been asked about her personal circumstances and there  are responses next to each 
one. The form asks Mrs B to read the information  carefully to check  it is correct. This 
suggests that a conversation took place  about  the PPI. 
Ive also been given  a copy of the mortgage  offer which would have been provided to 
Mr and Mrs B. I can see that it confirms you dont  have to take any insurance through Halifax 
and it lists the PPI cover taken in a section titled Optional Insurance. If Mr and Mrs B hadnt 
agreed to take out any insurance then I think they would have questioned this with Halifax 
when they received these documents.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Ref: DRN85769355Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs B disagree.  Looking at what  
Halifax says happened  when it sold Mr and Mrs B the PPI, and the documentation it has 
supplied, I think that it did provide  advice.
This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Halifax took some steps to establish  whether  the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser had information about some of Mr and Mrs Bs financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although  Halifax  did provide 
documentation which  showed it did try and establish  whether Mr and Mrs B had a need  for 
the policy  by asking questions about  Mrs Bs wider  circumstances such as any health 
issues  I dont think it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable.  There is no evidence that 
Halifax asked Mrs B about her employment benefits  or if Mr and Mrs B had any other 
existing means.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   Mrs B was the only wage earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Bs finances would be put under strain  if she was not 
working  even allowing for the statutory sickness and redundancy benefits  she was 
entitled to, along  with any possible income  Mr B may have  received, such  as a 
pension. The policy would have helped  Mr and Mrs B manage the consequences 
were Mrs B unable to work.
-Although Mrs B says they were financially stretched at the time, Ive seen  nothing  
else to suggest  the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.  
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for her to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given:
Mrs Bs circumstances,  including her statutory sickness and redundancy 
provisions and the limits  to those provisions, which mean the policy  could play 
an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
Ref: DRN85769356The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mrs B was unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment), the monthly benefit 
and of the approximate costs. I have reached this conclusion  because the quotation issued  
on the day of the meeting confirms that it provides cover if Mrs B couldnt  work due to 
accident, sickness, unemployment and this document  also confirms the benefit which 
would be paid and the monthly  premium.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs B all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
Ref: DRN85769357disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mrs B has suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes 
and standards  of good industry  practice  applicable  to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that Halifax ought  to have done either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs B. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy,  had Halifax  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Halifax  had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mrs B says they wouldnt have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Halifax  advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mrs B was unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were  given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease, sickness  
or related condition  and/or associated  symptoms which Mrs B knew,  or should 
Ref: DRN85769358reasonably have known, about  at the start date of the policy  or if she had seen or had 
arranged to see a doctor  during the 12 months  before  that date. If Mrs B remained 
symptom free from such a condition  and had not consulted a doctor or received 
treatment within 24 months  of the claim this exclusion wouldnt apply; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs B be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mrs B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mrs B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr and Mrs B might  reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected  to 
be able to make a disability claim without  having  to provide some evidence  to support that 
claim. And while this limitation might have  dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if Mrs B was unable  to do her 
job and any similar job or paid work which, in the insurers view, her experience, education 
or training reasonably qualified her to do, it might have played into their thinking about  what 
they would  have done. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  although its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if Mrs B was unable (through 
disability) to carry on her own occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
Ref: DRN85769359help them manage the consequences  should Mrs B be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Mrs B has said she turned  60 while the PPI was in force and at that time she stopped  being 
eligible for the cover. The policy would only end on the date Mrs B permanently retired  this 
was not limited based on her age. In 2005 the state  retirement age was 60, so its possible 
thats when she was planning  on retiring. But Mrs B was 55 when  she took out the PPI, so I 
think its more likely  than not shed have thought shed still get some value out of having the 
PPI, as it would  have covered her for a reasonable period of time.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mrs B was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as result  of the sale was the same  position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mrs B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would not have  
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
Ref: DRN857693510That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Halifax should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs B thinks Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2005 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Halifax  had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8576935