K820x#14complaint
Ms E complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) sold the debt from her credit 
card account  without informing her.
background
Mrs E said she received some letters  from a debt agency. Itd bought  a debt from Halifax.  
But she didnt know the debt had been passed  on. She wasnt even aware there was an 
outstanding balance until she received the letters.
The debt was from 2014. But Halifax hadnt  asked her for the money.  So she wants  to know 
why Halifax didnt give her the opportunity to pay it off.
Halifax explained Ms Es credit card account had defaulted in 2013.  So itd been  passed to 
its recoveries team. The terms and conditions of the account said Halifax had the right to 
pass the debt to a third party.  On this occasion  the debt had been  sold on 1 December 2014. 
Halifax had written to Ms E to let her know. And Ms E had spoken to the debt company  in 
2014 and refused to deal with it. 
Ms E wasnt satisfied with Halifaxs response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could  see Ms E had an outstanding balance on her 
April 2013 credit card statement of £2060.66. And she had made  some  previous payments 
towards her account. Halifax had written to Ms E in December  2014 when it sold the debt to 
a third party. So she felt Ms E wouldve been aware  from her monthly statements that she 
had an outstanding balance and had the opportunity to pay it.
Ms E didnt agree. She knew she had a credit card account. But she hadnt heard from 
Halifax since 2013. She had changed  address  on a number  of occasions but informed 
Halifax each time. And she hadnt received any letters from the bank. So shes asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Es frustrations. She had some  financial difficulties a number  of years 
ago. But she hadnt heard from Halifax since 2013.  And she had no idea the bank had 
passed on her outstanding  balance  to a third party  until it wrote to her about the debt. So Ive 
looked carefully at whats happened and whether Halifax  has made any mistakes.
Ms E had a balance  of just over £2000 on her credit card account in April 2013.  She had 
made a couple  of payments towards  the balance. But she hadnt been able to make  the 
required minimum monthly  payments.  
Because Ms E hadnt met her obligations under the terms and conditions Halifax placed the 
account in default. And the terms also allowed Halifax to sell the debt to a third party  if it 
wasnt able to recover the outstanding balance from its customer.  Ms E wouldve received 
regular statements about her account until it was placed in default.  So I think  she shouldve  
been aware she had an outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN86700582When Halifax passes on a debt the recovery agency is required to contact  the customer to 
say it is now responsible for the outstanding balance. And it seems Ms E was contacted by 
the agency in 2014 although she refused to deal with it. Although  it wasnt  obliged to inform 
Ms E of the sale, Halifax  also wrote to her in December 2014 to say itd sold the debt to a 
third party. I can see Ms E had changed  address on a number of occasions but, from what  
Ive seen, she did update the bank and Halifax did use the correct address when informing 
her of its decision.
Based on what Ive seen  I think Ms E shouldve been aware  she had an outstanding balance  
on her Halifax credit  card account.  She was contacted by Halifax on a number of occasions 
in 2013 and 2014 to inform her that her account was being placed in default.  And the bank 
acted within  the terms and conditions of the account when it passed the debt to a third party  
after Ms E failed to clear  the account.
Ms E says she has no objection in clearing the balance. But she would like to see copies of 
Halifaxs correspondence to her. And shes disappointed the bank didnt give her the 
opportunity to clear  the debt before it passed it to a third party. 
Unfortunately due to the passage of time Halifax doesnt keep copies of the actual letters 
sent. But I have  looked at its system notes which show the actions taken by the bank in 
relation to Ms Es account.  And Im satisfied it took the correct action in informing Ms E of the 
situation in 2013 and 2014. Ms E did make some  payments towards her account  before it 
was placed in default. So on balance I think  she had the opportunity to deal with her account 
before Halifax sold the debt.
I know Ms E will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant  really say Halifax  has done 
anything wrong. And I wont  be asking  it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8670058