K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that SSE Home  Services Limited gave him poor service  under his 
electrical wiring care agreement.
background
Mr M called SSE for help with his home  wiring. His agreement provides a repair  service for 
electrical faults. He's an elderly  gentleman who lives with his carer  in a remote location. SSE 
sent an electrician to carry out repairs. In the evening after SSEs  electrician had left, Mr Ms 
lights went off. He called SSE again.  He says they refused to come  back until the next day. 
He contacted another insurer under a different policy and they sent out an emergency 
electrician who restored  the lighting apart  from in the kitchen. 
Mr M complained that SSE left his home  in a worse state than it had been  in before. He said 
some lights  had stopped working. His dishwasher  had also failed, so he'd had to buy another  
one. He couldn't turn off his oil stove properly because the oil pipe had been bent by SSE 
and it hadn't  been earthed. He also said SSE left his fuse box and a socket in a dangerous 
condition with live conductors accessible.  He wasn't happy with the trunking installed by 
SSE.
SSE said it felt it was unsafe to carry on working  in the property due to concerns about the 
wiring because the property was damp. It also said that when Mr M called  it a second time, 
he still had some power, so it hadnt knowingly left him in complete darkness.
After Mr M brought his complaint to this service, SSE agreed  to inspect Mr M's property with 
its area manager and a representative from trading standards.  It then offered to carry out 
some further  works. It said it would cancel the policy after the works had been carried  out. 
These have been  carried  out and Mr M is satisfied with them.  Mr M thought  SSE should 
compensate him for the problems it caused to his electrical system on its first visit.
I issued a provisional decision explaining I was satisfied  that the SSE electrical  wiring  care 
agreement had the features of an insurance policy and why I was minded to require SSE to 
pay Mr M £400 for the trouble and upset it had caused him. 
As SSE has now completed its repairs, I considered the level of compensation to 
award for the trouble  and upset SSE caused Mr M. To do this I needed to decide how 
many of the problems Mr M experienced were due to fault on SSE's part.
I said there was nothing  in the reports on the wiring prepared  by two different electricians 
that led me to conclude that SSE did anything which caused the kitchen light and the 
dishwasher to stop working.  Mr M agreed that the property suffers  from some  dampness. 
SSE's electrician said there were various faults  in the wiring on different circuits  which  
appeared to have  been  caused by water getting in. He thought  that was causing  the 
electrics to short out. I note that the new dishwasher worked fine from the same socket 
as the old one was connected to. On balance I thought it was likely that the dampness 
could have been a factor with the kitchen light and whatever caused the original 
dishwasher to fail wasn't SSE's  fault.
The emergency electrician reported that the copper  oil pipe feeding the heating  system 
had been bent to allow new cable trunking to pass behind.  He thought this needed 
improvement but wasn't immediately dangerous. SSE's electrician said there was no 
Ref: DRN89848102evidence of damage or leaking to the oil supply pipe. SSE agreed to install earthing to 
the pipe which I thought was reasonable in the circumstances.
I said one socket  behind  a cupboard was undoubtedly dangerous. But SSE's electrician 
didn't think  SSE had worked on this as it had old coloured cables. Based on that I 
thought it was likely SSE wasn't responsible for leaving it in this condition.
The emergency electrician also reported  that there were some  blanks missing from his 
fuse box and insulation  tape had been used  to cover the hole. He said this was 
dangerous as live conductors could have  been accessed. Since this electrician was 
asked to review the work carried  out by SSE's  contractor, I felt it was reasonable to 
assume that SSE left the fuse box in this condition. The fuse box was found to be 
acceptable when SSE originally inspected  the property before offering the policy. It was 
also covered by the policy. So I didn't think  it was acceptable for SSE to leave it in a 
dangerous condition. I accepted that Mr M would have been anxious about this both for 
himself and his carer.
SSE accepted that trunking had been  installed in a poor state and it put this 
right. Nonetheless Mr M had the inconvenience of further work  being needed to 
put right something  which hadn't been done  properly at the outset.
I also thought Mr M had been inconvenienced by not being provided  with proper 
paperwork after SSE's visits  showing  what work had been carried  out in his home. 
When these were  provided later after Mr M complained, he was wrongly stated to be 
incapable of signing the forms due to physical incapacity. I accepted  that Mr M would 
have found that upsetting and insulting.
Although this was less than Mr M felt SSE should  pay, overall I thought the sum of £400 
was appropriate  to compensate him for the trouble and upset caused  by its poor claim 
handling.
Neither SSE nor Mr M agreed with my provisional  decision. SSE said I couldnt be sure that 
its electrician had left the fuse box unsafe.  It didnt  think it should have to pay compensation 
as it had carried out over £1,000 worth of work  to the property as a gesture of goodwill. It 
said it hadnt meant to imply that Mr M couldnt sign the forms due to incapacity  it was just 
its electrician was using  his laptop at the time. Lastly it said that it was cancelling Mr Ms 
policy now that the works had been carried out as it thought the property was too damp. It 
said it would  repay  Mr Ms premium in full.
In summary  Mr M said:
£400 compensation  wasnt enough; replacing the dishwasher had cost more.
Older properties are often damp  but the damp hasnt prevented other  companies from 
carrying out works to his property.
SSE had inspected his property before offering cover in 2015  and shouldnt have taken it 
on if they thought it was so damp.  He didnt think it was fair to cancel his policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89848103I cant be completely sure that SSEs electrician left Mr Ms fuse box in an unsafe condition. 
But I assess cases on the balance  of probabilities, meaning I only have to be satisfied that 
something is likely to be the case.  And having  assessed the available  evidence  here,  Im 
satisfied that its more likely than not SSE failed  Mr M in this respect. Thats because the 
electrician who visited the property just after SSEs first repair  visit reported:
In the fuse box there  were disconnected  cables by SSE with neutral conductors  accessible 
meaning they could  have  been dangerous. I have taped over the copper and dismantled the 
lives of the disconnected neutral at the consumer unit.
The work carried out by SSE may well have  been  worth £1,000.  SSE says it should  have  
been chargeable as it was caused  by the property  being  damp.  But for the reasons 
explained provisionally and set out above  I think the bulk of the repair work was actually to 
make good  inadequate work carried out by its electrician  on the first visit. So I dont regard 
this as compensation.
I accept that SSE didnt mean to offend  Mr M by saying he was physically unable to sign the 
forms. Its a shame this wasnt explained  to him at the time.  But this doesnt  change the fact 
of the upset caused to Mr M.
Mr M has provided evidence that his property isnt seriously damp.  I accept that might well 
be the case. But it seems  clear to me from the various reports  that there is some damp. And 
I think its likely that SSE is correct in saying that dampness contributed  to the problem with 
the kitchen lighting  since theres nothing to prove  that this was caused by poor workmanship 
on SSEs  part. 
I also commented provisionally on it being likely the dishwasher wasnt damaged by SSE. 
The award of £400  compensation isnt supposed to be for a replacement  dishwasher. Thats 
because Im not persuaded that its SSEs fault that Mr M had to replace his original 
dishwasher. Its intended to compensate Mr M for the trouble and upset SSE caused him by 
its poor claim handling. I appreciate that Mr M thinks SSE should  pay considerably more. But 
Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, taking  into account 
the effect on Mr M of the damage  SSE caused  to his home and the inconvenience he 
suffered by SSE having to put it right.
SSE said since the dampness in the property hasnt been remedied, it was cancelling the 
agreement and refunding the premium. I think it would only be fair for SSE to do this if 
thered been a fundamental  change in the risk during the policy  year. SSE inspected  the 
property before the agreement started to establish  that it was suitable for cover and its not 
due to do this again until the policy is due for renewal in February 2020. Theres  nothing to 
suggest that its deteriorated significantly since its original inspection.  The fact that another 
energy company has since installed electric storage heaters supports that. So I think if Mr M 
wants it to and he pays the premium again, in order to treat him fairly SSE should reinstate 
the cover  under the policy until the end of the current policy year.  
Ref: DRN89848104my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require SSE Home Services Limited to pay Mr M £400 
compensation for the trouble and upset its caused him. If Mr M wishes  and subject  to 
him paying  the premium  SSEs  refunded,  I also require  SSE Home Services Limited to 
reinstate his agreement  until the end of the policy year.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8984810