K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Eldon Insurance  Services Ltd (trading as Go Skippy)  provided inaccurate  
information about his address to his finance provider when he took out a motor  insurance 
policy. 
background
Last year Mr B made an online application for motor insurance through Eldon. He needed  
finance to pay for the policy which was arranged with another company. Mr B says the 
finance provider  then ran a credit check on a buy to let property which  he doesnt live at. 
Hes unhappy this is recorded on his credit file. He holds Eldon  responsible  for this because 
he had a previous  policy  with it when  he was living at the buy to let property and thinks  it 
passed on that address to the finance provider. 
Eldon said it passed  on the information  Mr B gave as part of his most recent application.  It 
provided a screen  shot from the finance section of this which  contained the address of his 
buy to let property.  It said Mr B hadnt  had a policy with it in the past though  he had run a 
quote a few years ago. But this hadnt  been  progressed and it wasnt linked to this policy. 
Our investigator didnt  think Eldon had done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree. He said the 
screen shot could  have  been fabricated. And he said if hed provided the incorrect  
information his direct debit would have  been rejected by his bank which  didnt happen. 
Although the entry  had now been  removed from his credit file he wanted compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  hed been  caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr B strongly  believes Eldon provided  inaccurate address details to his finance  
provider. But Ive seen  the screen shot which it says he filled in as part of the application 
process. That contains the address  for the buy to let property. Mr B has believes that could 
have been fabricated. However,  Ive looked at the screenshot and I dont think  theres  
anything to suggest thats the case. 
In addition although Eldon  does appear to have had the buy to let address from the previous 
quote Mr B made it says there  was no link between that quote and the policy  hes now taken 
out. I understand Mr B applied for his current policy using his new address (entering  
payment details later in the process). So there would have been no reason for Eldons 
systems to recognise him as the same person or use his old details. 
And while Mr B says his direct debit would have failed if hed used  the address for his buy to 
let property I dont  think thats right. Ive seen  a copy of the direct debit mandate  that was 
submitted in relation to his finance  application  and that doesnt contain any address 
information. 
Im pleased to hear the entry Mr B was concerned about has now been removed from his 
credit file. But I dont think  it was included in the first place because  of anything Eldon got 
wrong. 
Ref: DRN84908392my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept  or reject  my decision  before 21 March 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8490839