K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained to us about  a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy which he 
says Bank  of Scotland Bank plc (Bank of Scotland), mis-sold to him with a credit card. 
background
Our adjudicator assessed this complaint and was of the view that it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint and Ill explain the reasons for this.
The sale took place  a long time ago and much of the information  one would  normally  expect 
to see is no longer available. This isnt unusual in cases  where  many  years have passed. 
Bank of Scotland no longer has copies of the sale documents.  So Ive used my knowledge 
and experience of PPI sales  to help me think about what  might  have happened.  
Mr C has told us he took out the PPI in a phone  call with Bank  of Scotland. He told us this 
was following an initial postal application for the card, on which there  was a section about 
the PPI. He decided not to take out the policy. However, hes informed us emphatically that 
during the subsequent call, the sales representative  told him that he had to take out the 
policy and rushed him into taking it out. He told us he accepted  because  he needed the 
credit urgently for house repairs  and improvements. 
I dont doubt that Mr Cs recollections  about being  mis-sold  PPI are genuinely held. 
However, as these events  took place about  20 years ago I have to be mindful that with the 
passage of time memories fade.  Ive carefully  considered what  Mr C has told us. But overall, 
the available  information isnt sufficiently  persuasive for me to find that Mr C was pressured 
or misled into taking out the PPI, or that Bank  of Scotland failed to make  it clear enough that 
the policy was optional. So Im not upholding his complaint on this basis. 
Next, the parties  dont  agree whether Bank of Scotland  recommended the PPI cover with the 
credit card, But I dont  think this particular issue needs to be decided, as I think the policy  
was suitable for Mr C and Ill explain the reasons for this. Ive looked at his circumstances to 
help me decide  about this. 
First of all, I think  that Mr C was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  he would have  been  
caught by any of the main exclusions or restrictions under  the cover. Mr C told us that he 
was entitled to employer benefits which would have paid for between six and twelve  months. 
In addition he told us he had savings in the amount of £5000. He also told us about  other  
insurance policies  which would have paid a monthly  sum in the event he was too ill to work 
Ref: DRN88568282or was made unemployed.  But  if he was too ill to work or was made  unemployed the PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months.  In addition it would have paid 10% of his 
outstanding monthly  balance,  which would  have at times been a considerably  higher sum 
each month  than the amount paid by his insurance policies combined. So overall, I dont  
think his other means made the PPI unsuitable for him.
Mr C told us he was also had life cover and was entitled to death  in service benefit.  But 
these were different  types of benefit  to that provided by the PPI so there  was no 
overlap there. So taking  all these things into account, I think the policy and recommendation 
were suitable for him.
Mr C has also complained  that he tried to claim on the PPI in 2004 when he suffered from 
health problems.  But his claim on the PPI was refused. So he may wish to bring a complaint 
about how that claim was dealt with. In the first instance he should complain to his insurer. If 
hes unable  to reach a satisfactory conclusion he can then ask this Service to look into 
that complaint.
Finally, Bank of Scotland  had to give Mr C information  that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so he could make the decision for himself about  whether or not to take the MPPI.  
Ive considered the possibility that Bank of Scotland didnt give Mr C clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  But the 
cost was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. And its 
possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But looking 
at his circumstances, Mr C wouldnt  have  been  affected by any of those things. On balance, I 
dont think having  better  information would have dissuaded him from buying  the PPI. So 
overall, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C but Ive concluded  the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold  so Bank  of 
Scotland plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to him.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Ref: DRN88568283Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8856828