K820x#14complaint
Mr J1 complains  that its unfair  that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  doesnt offer 
new products to customers with lifetime  mortgages.  Mr J1 is represented by a family 
member, who Ill refer to as Mr J2. He asks that Halifax offers  a new mortgage  product to 
Mr J1.
background
Mr J1 took out a lifetime  mortgage with Halifax in 2011. The mortgage interest  rate was fixed  
until October 2014 and Halifaxs variable rate has applied since then. An early  repayment 
charge (ERC) applied  until October  2014. 
Mr J2 says Mr J1 is trapped in a mortgage at Halifaxs variable rate  which could increase. 
He says its unfair that Halifax  wont offer a better  interest rate to Mr J1. He says its not good 
enough to suggest Mr J1 applies to another provider in the Bank of Scotland group. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Halifax  
made a decision  not to offer new products to customers with lifetime mortgages. It was 
entitled to do this and he couldnt require it to make an exception  for Mr J1. The adjudicator 
said Halifax offered assistance  by suggesting  Mr J1 contact another  provider in the group. 
As theres  no ERC,  Mr J1 can move to another  lender if he wishes  to do so.
Mr J2 said Halifax should offer a new product  to Mr J1. He asked  that the ombudsman 
service reviews whether  its practical  for Mr J1 to refinance elsewhere and provides a list of 
suitable providers.  Mr J2 asked that we require Halifax  to provide data about its lifetime  
mortgage customers. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax doesnt offer new products to customers with lifetime  mortgages. This was a decision 
made in 2013.  Lenders are generally entitled  to make a commercial  decision about the 
products they offer. Mr J2 doesnt agree with Halifaxs decision not to offer new products to 
customers with lifetime  mortgages. But I havent  seen anything  to suggest Halifax  treated 
Mr J1 unfairly when it implemented this decision.  I cant reasonably require Halifax  to change 
its policy or make an exception for Mr J1.
Halifax suggested Mr J1 contact another provider in the Bank  of Scotland group, which 
offers lifetime mortgages. No ERC is payable if Mr J1 repays his mortgage with Halifax. He 
can, if he chooses, take out a mortgage  with another provider outside  or within  the Bank of 
Scotland group. 
We provide an informal  dispute  resolution  service. Im not a regulator. My role is to look into 
individual complaints. I cant reasonably require Halifax to provide  data about  its customers  
to Mr J2. Mr J2s wider  concerns about Halifaxs lifetime mortgage customers might be better  
addressed to the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. Nor can I provide advice to 
Mr J1 about the mortgages  which  might  be available to him. If Mr J1 needs financial or 
mortgage advice,  he should contact a suitably qualified  person.
Ref: DRN82944042Mr J1 wants to stay with Halifax but with a better  interest rate. Im sorry that Halifax  doesnt 
offer this. But I dont  think Halifax  made an error.  Its applied its variable rate to Mr J1s 
mortgage account in accordance with the mortgage offer.  Mr J1 agreed  to this when he took 
out the mortgage. I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require  Halifax  
to offer a new product  or lower interest rate to Mr J1.
Halifax accepts it gave  incorrect information about  whether  it had responded to Mr J1s 
complaint in August 2018. It offered compensation of £53 for the inconvenience and call 
costs. Ill leave it to Mr J1 to decide whether  to accept  this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8294404