K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out the PPI in 2000 at the same time as arranging their mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they were not aware  that PPI had been added to their mortgage account. 
Ive seen a copy  of their mortgage application form. There  is a section headed  Insurance.  
Within that section there is a sub-section  for PPI which  says:  I wish to apply for (Lloyds) 
Payment Protection  Plus Cover and have completed the relevant proposal form. There  are 
yes and no boxes next to this statement that could be ticked to either accept or decline the 
policy. The yes box has been ticked.  They  could  have  ticked  the no box if they didnt want 
the PPI.
Lloyds no longer has a copy of the PPI application (or proposal) form, which is not surprising 
given the amount of time that has elapsed. However, given that the yes box has been 
ticked on the mortgage application form, on balance  I consider that Mr and Mrs W would 
have completed a separate PPI application form. So I consider they would have been aware 
that they had a choice about buying the policy.
I have no doubt  that Mr and Mrs W have provided their genuine  recollection  of events. But 
the sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs Ws 
memory of events has faded. Overall I consider it is likely that Mr and Mrs W decided  to buy 
the policy, knowing that they didnt  have to, even if they no longer remember  doing so.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI. Therefore, in recommending  the policy  to 
them, it needed to ensure  that it met their needs. And from what I know of the couples 
circumstances at the time, the policy was suitable for them.
Mr W has said that he would have received at least six months sick pay from his employer. 
Mrs W couldnt remember what sick pay, if any, she would have received at the time. 
Regardless of this, the policy  would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially 
for longer than Mr and Mrs W would have  received  full pay for.
Mr and Mrs W said they had some  savings. But having the policy  would have allowed them 
to retain  these or use them  to cover other outgoings  at what would have been a difficult time. 
Theyve said that family would have helped, but other people cant always be relied  upon  as 
Ref: DRN82143052their circumstances can change. Mr and Mrs W said they had to tighten their belts at the 
time because they were  raising two teenagers. So if they had needed  to claim on the policy,  
I consider they would have found it a useful benefit  to have their mortgage repayments 
covered.
Mr and Mrs W have  said that they had never missed any mortgage repayments  on their 
previous mortgage  and had a good credit  history. But it is the nature of insurance  to insure 
against any unforeseen events and changes in circumstances. So the fact that theyd  never 
had any trouble meeting their repayments previously didnt make the policy unsuitable.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt provide as much information about the policy  is it could have, 
particularly about  the things that it didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs W werent affected by any of 
those things. As I consider that Mr and Mrs W had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy 
it, I dont  think that further information would have caused them to change their minds.
This means  that Lloyds doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. 
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because:  
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs W about 
that. Because Lloyds didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 December 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8214305