K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) are unfairly defending a 
liability claim being made against him.
background
Mr B holds a home insurance policy with RSA that covers personal  liability for damage  to 
third-party property. His wife (Mrs B) was involved in an incident in July 2017 where their dog 
ran into a road and was hit by a car, which caused  damage to the vehicle.  
Mr B was held liable for causing damage  to the third-party  vehicle, so he notified  RSA so 
they could consider covering his liability under  his home insurance. But RSA did not consider 
that he had any legal  liability for the damage. This was because Mr B initially  told them that 
the road could  not be seen from where Mrs B was walking the dog and that there  were  thick 
bushes in between the road and where the dog was being walked. 
RSA considered there was sufficient distance between  Mrs Bs position  and the road, so 
they did not think she had been negligent by walking  the dog off the lead, or that it was 
foreseeable he would run into the road, given that the dog had been walked in the same 
location many times without incident. RSA advised  the third-party insurers that they were 
defending liability  at this point. 
However, in August 2017, the third-party insurers alleged that Mrs B was closer to the road 
than Mr B had described, such  that his dog should  have been  on a lead.  RSA sought 
clarification from Mr B of the version  of events  he had given  i.e. that he was in a woodland 
area at least 50 metres away from the road,  which was separated by a thick layer of bushes. 
Mr B responded to RSA by email  on 4 September 2017 confirming that this was correct,  but 
that the distance was approximately 30 metres from the road before the woodland  area. 
RSA continued  to deny liability in these  circumstances and made no offer to pay for the 
damage to the vehicle.
The third-party insurers continued to dispute RSAs decision  into 2018. So in May 2018,  they 
asked that Mr B provide a mark on a Googlemap satellite image to confirm  where  Mrs B was 
walking before the dog ran out. They said that Mr B failed to do this, but instead called them 
in June 2018 saying he felt morally responsible for the damage caused to the third-party  
vehicle, such that he should pay for the cost of repairs.  RSA said Mr B could settle directly 
with the third-party  without prejudice and as a gesture of goodwill, but that they would not 
cover these costs or accept liability. 
Mr B emailed RSA in October 2018  with a repair estimate for the third-partys vehicle in the 
expectation they would now pay these costs.  And he was unhappy when RSA reiterated  
their stance and said they would continue  to defend liability. Mr B said that his dog was a 
hunting dog and would  not respond to recall when  it chased a rabbit, which is what he said 
caused it to run into the road. He asked  whether this would change RSAs decision on 
liability, which they said it did not. However,  they asked again that Mr B indicate where the 
dog was being walked on a Googlemap image.
Mr B asked that RSA review their decision again in January 2019, at which  point he said that 
the dog was off the lead only 5 metres  from the road. RSA questioned why the 
circumstances and distance had changed  from 50, to 30, to then just 5 metres away from the 
Ref: DRN87479802road, but Mr B was unable to provide an explanation. As a result,  they continued to deny 
liability. Unhappy with this decision, Mr B brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that RSA had acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions and didnt think they had acted unfairly given the inconsistent 
version of events provided. Mr B disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to 
determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Bs policy set out the terms of cover for personal liability:
Occupiers and Personal Liabilities
We will pay
(a)All sums  for which you or your family  as occupier  of the premises or in any 
other personal capacity become legally liable  for accidental death  or bodily 
injury to any person  or damage  to their property arising anywhere in the 
United Kingdom  or elsewhere whilst  this policy is in force.
(b)All associated costs, expenses and legal fees agreed by us in writing.
According to the above  wording,  RSA are liable to pay for any costs in which  Mr B is legally 
liable. So Ive considered whether they have reasonable grounds for denying liability  in these 
circumstances. In other words, is it likely RSA would  be successful in defending  the third-
partys liability claim, on the basis that Mrs B had not breached her duty of care and had not 
acted negligently  by walking the dog off of the lead, and that it was not reasonably  
foreseeable that it would  run into the road?
RSA emailed Mr B on 31 August 2017  seeking  clarification  of what happened.  They  said:
From our version which I just wanted to confirm with you again  before I go back to 
[the third-party insurer] and continue to defend the claim, I have that you were  in a 
woodland area, at least  50m away from a road which was separated by a thick layer 
of bushes. Therefore it was completely reasonable that you would have your dog off 
of a lead, which your dog was familiar  with. And furthermore that you could not have 
foreseen the incident.
Mr B responded on 4 September 2017  confirming this and said:
Your record  is correct  apart from our estimation  that my wifewas around  30 
metres away from the road (before  which there  is a wooded area).  So it was 
reasonable to not have [the dog] on the lead.  Also,  [the dog] has never ever deviated  
from the path near the road before.
Given Mr Bs initial recollection of events, I think it was reasonable for RSA to defend liability  
in these circumstances, because it does not appear  that Mrs B had acted with any 
negligence, or that it was foreseeable that the dog would run into the road if they were 
Ref: DRN8747980330 metres away and it was separated  by a wooded area. This position  is further  supported 
by the fact that Mr B said the dog had not deviated  from the path when off of the lead before. 
Despite having  confirmed the above, Mr B later provided the location of the incident on a 
Googlemap satellite image, which placed Mrs B just a few metres away  from the road.  Mr B 
said that the initial version of events he gave were  different because  this was only an 
estimation, as he was not present when the incident occurred. I accept there  may be room  
for a margin  of error in such an estimation. But I do not think  this extends to being  so far 
from the road that it was 30-50 metres away and separated by woodland, to then being  just 
a few metres from the road and passing  traffic.  And I note that Mrs B was copied  into the 
email sent by RSA where they were  seeking clarification of what happened, so she could 
have corrected any inaccuracies at the time if she felt there  were  any. So, given that this 
differing version  of events came around  two years after the event,  I think its reasonable for 
RSA to rely on the initial statement given  by Mr B as the most accurate and representative 
version of events.
Mr B says that RSA only requested his positioning  on a map in 2019, and that they had not 
asked him to do this previously. But I can see that they did request this in 2018, but received 
no response. 
Finally, it is not clear why Mr B subsequently  expected RSA to accept liability  after they said 
they wouldnt. But Im satisfied  they did not give any such indication, or said anything that 
would lead Mr B to believe this was the case, as they have maintained throughout that they 
would not be accepting liability. I appreciate that Mr B feels morally responsible to pay for the 
damage caused to the third-party  vehicle.  But I cannot reasonably ask RSA to cover the 
costs of this, as I do not think they have acted  unfairly by denying liability in these 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8747980