K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC caused delays when they applied  for 
additional borrowing  on their mortgage. They want Barclays  to refund the cost of the 
additional structural reports they obtained  and pay them compensation for the stress caused  
by the delays and lack of response.
background
Mr and Mrs C had a mortgage  with Barclays. And in April 2018 they applied to Barclays for 
further borrowing  of around £23,000.
Barclays instructed a valuer  to complete a valuation report on the property. The report  noted 
that there  was evidence  of structural movement in the form of cracking. As a result of this, 
the valuer valued the property at £0.
In May 2018  Mr and Mrs C instructed a structural engineer to visit the property.  The engineer 
then returned  in June 2018  to complete further investigations. And the engineer sent his 
findings to Mr and Mrs C in August 2018.  This said that it was highly likely that monitoring 
the crack  and movement  of the property  would indicate that the movement was non-
progressive.
The engineers report was sent to Barclays. And Barclays valuer reviewed  the report  and 
advised that the property  wasnt suitable  security given  that the report  suggested  that 
ongoing monitoring was required.
Mr and Mrs C obtained a further report from the structural engineer  in October  2018.  This 
said that, after a five month period  of monitoring, there was no increase in the size of the 
crack and it was reasonable to conclude  that the property  was stable.
This report was sent to Barclays.  And, following this, a second survey  report  dated  26 
November 2018  was issued which valued the property at £180,000. 
Mr and Mrs C complained  to Barclays in early November 2018.  Barclays says it has no 
record of receiving this letter. But it issued its final response letter  in March 2019 after 
Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint to this service. Barclays said, in summary:
it would not refund the structural  engineer fees as the two reports  would have  been  
required for it to consider further lending against  the property;
although  it appreciated the application  had taken some time, the delays it had seen 
had been caused  by the need  for the two structural reports and the need for its 
surveyor to fully review these before any decision could be made  on lending;
once the reports had been  received  and reviewed it would  have been  in a position  to 
assist Mr and Mrs C further,  but due to the time that had passed it would have 
required a new application to be made  to re-confirm the details  around  their personal 
circumstances. It understood  that Mr and Mrs C had instead made the decision to re-
mortgage with a new lender and had moved  their mortgage away  from Barclays.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should  be upheld.  He said, 
in summary:
Ref: DRN84186732Barclays process required  the initial valuation to be carried  out to be able to decide  
whether to approve further borrowing or not. The valuation highlighted a potential 
structural issue with the property. And he felt it was reasonable for Barclays to say 
that it wouldnt approve the application  without further investigation;
The subsequent  engineers reports came  at a cost to Mr and Mrs C. He didnt think  
this was unreasonable, or that Barclays should pay for or subsidise an investigation 
into a potential structural issue with Mr and Mrs Cs property;
He felt that Barclays progressed the application at a reasonable pace when  
information, such as reports, were  with it to consider;
He understood  that Barclays had a six month limit on applications. He felt it was fair 
to consider that a consumers circumstances could change  after six months so he felt 
it was reasonable  to ask them to complete a new application.
Mr and Mrs C dont agree with our investigators conclusions. They say in particular that 
Barclays didnt keep  them properly informed,  and that Barclays should have used an 
independent expert  to review the structural engineers reports.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that this complaint should  not be upheld. I appreciate that this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage application  submitted  in April 2018. I see from this that 
Mr and Mrs C were looking to borrow additional funds on their mortgage. And I agree that it 
was reasonable  for Barclays to instruct a valuation of the property.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C say that the valuation  was inadequate and consisted  of a 
brief visual check. But Barclays  is entitled to rely on the opinion of the third party  
professional valuer  it instructed. So Im not persuaded  it did anything wrong by doing  so. And 
I dont agree that it should have appointed an independent expert to review  the structural 
engineers reports  that Mr and Mrs C obtained. 
The structural engineers  reports came at a cost to Mr and Mrs C. But given that those 
reports were to investigate a potential issue with their property it is reasonable that they 
should pay for those  reports. And, as Barclays explained, it would not have  been  able to 
continue with Mr and Mrs Cs application  unless the issue had been addressed.
Barclays has explained that it has a six month time limit on applications.  It says that, if 
Mr and Mrs C had wanted to proceed, then it would have required a new application to re-
confirm the details around their personal circumstances. I agree with our investigator  that 
this is not unreasonable.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C felt that Barclays caused delays in the process, and didnt 
communicate with them properly. But, having reviewed the documentation, Im persuaded 
that Barclays progressed  the application at a reasonable pace when it had information to 
consider.
I do note that Mr and Mrs C wrote to Barclays to complain in early November but didnt 
receive a response  from Barclays. But Barclays says, and I accept, that this is because it 
Ref: DRN84186733has no record of ever receiving their complaint. So, although I appreciate  that this would  
have added to Mr and Mrs Cs frustration,  it does not change  my decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 July 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418673