K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  about the service  she received  from HSBC UK Bank Plc when she 
reported some disputed transactions on her credit  card.
background 
Miss K first noticed a transaction to a company called  E in July 2017.  She  complained to 
HSBC about this telling it that she hadnt  made the transaction  nor did she recognise it.
The money was refunded  but Miss K says the same transaction occurred again on a new 
credit card  in fact she says this happened  across  four different credit  cards which  had 
been issued to her.
She complained to HSBC because she said she had not been refunded  the full amount and 
that a credit  still remained on her credit  card which was also accruing interest.
In July 2018, HSBC wrote  to Miss K to apologise for the poor service she had received and 
offered her £250  as a gesture of goodwill.  And in its final response  to her, it provided a 
breakdown of the credits and debits to the various  credit cards.
Ultimately, HSBC said that Miss K was liable  for the remaining balance  on her credit  card 
because she had asked  for a refund  of one of the transactions to be transferred to her 
current account.
Miss K didnt agreed  and brought the matter to this service.  
Our investigator thought HSBC needed to do more.  He looked at the debits and credits to 
Miss Ks credit card and current account  and said HSBC had failed to refund one of the 
transactions.  It therefore needed to refund a further £234.77, any interest and charges 
incurred and pay a further £150  for the distress and inconvenience it had caused to Miss K.
Neither Miss K nor HSBC agreed  with what the investigator  thought. Miss K said she was 
owed more and HSBC said it had made full refunds and owed nothing further.
I then issued a provisional decision on 16th April 2020.  My decision was different  to the 
investigators in that I wasnt asking  HSBC to issue any more  refunds.  I thought it needed  to 
refund any interest  and charges on the account caused by the disputed  transactions  but no 
more. I also thought the offer of compensation it had made before the matter came to us was 
also a fair one.
Miss K wrote  to our service to say she didnt accept the outcome.  She re-iterated the points 
she had previously made to the investigator.
HSBC responded  and agreed with my provisional decision.
I know have everything I need to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80457472I have considered the evidence further  and having  done so, I am in agreement with HSBC
and I think that all the disputed transactions to E have been  reimbursed.
The remaining  balance has been left on the credit  card because HSBC  made a final refund
of £234 to Miss Ks current account in July 2018. It then,  on its own initiative, used  that to
pay off the balance on Miss Ks credit card. Miss K subsequently asked  for that payment to
be returned to her current account  which was actioned. I have seen the July 2018
statement to confirm the debit and credit.
Up until that point, I am satisfied that all other transactions  to E had been reimbursed to 
Miss K  so I dont think HSBC needs to pay anymore  in terms of transactions.
However, I think its fair that, as the transactions were accepted as being fraudulent, HSBC
should refund any charges and fees added to Miss Ks account  as a result.
With regards to service, I can see that there has been considerable confusion over the
period of this complaint. I think this has been  caused by HSBC  not being  clear in how it
chose to communicate with Miss K. So, Ive considered  whether I think the £200 already
paid is fair and reasonable  and I think it is. I wont be asking HSBC to increase on this
award either.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
HSBC Bank  UK Plc must  refund any interest and charges incurred on Miss Ks credit  card as 
a result of the disputed  transactions  to E.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8045747