K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasnt refunded  to her the 
value of transactions on her account that she says she didnt make.  The total amount in 
dispute is £500. 
background
There are four disputed  transactions, all made on 31 December 2018, between  2.20pm and 
3.00pm. The first three  transactions were retail  transactions, all made in store  at different 
retailers, each for £100. They were  made  using a genuinely  issued card for the account and 
by correct entry of the personal  identification  number (PIN). The fourth transaction was a 
£200 cash withdrawal,  made using  the same card and, again, with the PIN being entered.   
Miss A held two accounts with RBS, a student current account  and a savings account, 
neither of which was used  regularly as she used an account with another  bank  as her main 
account. So she said she was only alerted  to the disputed transactions  when she logged on 
to her mobile  banking  on 2 January  2019.
Miss A had previously lost the card to her RBS current  account and had reported it lost to 
the bank, online. She cant remember how the card was lost, but at the same time she lost 
her student  ID card.  She requested a new PIN along with a new card for added security. 
She says no one else knew shed requested a new card and PIN but speculated that if a 
letter notifying her had been  sent to her old student  accommodation in Aberdeen   the card 
and PIN was issued  to the Aberdeen branch   she wouldnt have seen that. Miss A opened 
the account when at university in Aberdeen, but had been in Glasgow since  Summer 2018. 
Miss A did receive an email on 29 November 2018,  saying the PIN had been despatched to 
the Aberdeen branch and another on 30 November saying the card had been despatched 
there. But because  Miss A was in Glasgow, she had only ever intended  to collect the card 
and PIN when shed  be back in Aberdeen, in February 2019. She says she didnt need to 
use the account before then and she thought the items safe, in branch; that being  so also 
because production of photo identification  would be needed to collect the items.
In order to finance the disputed transactions made  on the current account, funds were 
moved from Miss As savings account with RBS. This was done by use of Miss As mobile  
banking facility but Miss A says this was not her despite not being able explain how anyone  
could have learned, and therefore used, her security  log in details  necessary  to access  that 
facility. Miss A says she doesnt have those written  down  and theyve never been shared. 
Its noteworthy that immediately before the transfer  of funds from the savings  account,  after 
logging on to the mobile banking, on 31 December 2018, someone  first changed the email 
address attached to the mobile banking record. 
Finally, Miss A has provided a letter from her Glasgow based employer confirming she was 
working on 31 December  2018 between 9.00am and 5.30pm. This made  it impossible for her 
to have therefore been in Aberdeen to undertake the disputed transactions.  
RBS declined to refund the value of the disputed transactions to Miss A. It had concerns as 
to whether Miss A had been a victim of fraud.  It questioned why Miss A didnt pick up the 
Ref: DRN83041012new card sooner or arrange  for it to be delivered  to a branch in Glasgow if she was to be 
based there for the time being.  No address  change  had been provided  to the bank.
It was concerned that given there  were  no limits on transfers between  the current account 
and savings account, that a fraudster hadnt  tried to maximise the amount of fraudulent 
spending possible. £500 was transferred  from the savings account  to cover the current 
account transactions but the savings account  balance at the time was £3,239.15.
Unfortunately, RBS was unable  to provide CCTV footage of the Aberdeen branch to show 
who collected the card and PIN as this is only retained for a limited time and wasnt viewed. 
RBS was also unable  to provide a copy of the signed form which would have been obtained 
at the time of items  collection; or any record of what identification was viewed. Indeed, it 
cant precisely identify  the day on which the items  were collected.
It has produced details of the procedures to be followed  by branch staff when a customer  
collects a card and PIN. And these state  if the customer cant be fully identified  and the 
member of staff cant be satisfied as to their identity they would not release the card and 
PIN. It had no reason  to conclude that the branch staff werent satisfied that it was Miss A 
who was in branch  to collect the card and PIN.  
Our investigator noted no one else knew Miss A had ordered a replacement card and PIN, 
and her speculation was that the only way someone would have known was if theyd 
intercepted post sent to her student accommodation in Aberdeen. But RBS only told Miss A 
about the despatch  of the card and PIN, to her email  address. So she could see no plausible 
explanation for how a third party found  out they were waiting for collection at the branch.
She considered Miss As concerns about  her student identification going missing  and 
whether this could  have  been used by someone else to obtain the new card and PIN. Of 
course, RBS cant evidence how the items  were collected so theres little certainty about 
what the branch  were  given sight of, before the items were  released. But the investigator 
thought it unlikely that someone would approach a bank, with a view to obtaining someone  
elses card and PIN with their student pass only.
In any event, the investigator  also noted  Miss A had said that shed not written  down  or 
shared her mobile  banking details with anyone. RBS said that there were no other  devices 
registered to use online banking apart  from Miss As. And the process  for Miss A to log on to 
mobile banking  involved the entry of a 10-digit  code,  comprised of her date of birth and four 
digits given by RBS for her to use, and three  random digits from her PIN and password. 
The investigator couldnt perceive how someone could have accessed Miss As mobile 
banking given that scenario and the evidence  of Miss A. 
But the investigator did accept the evidence of Miss A as to her working on 31 December 
2018 in Glasgow and therefore  wouldnt have been able to carry out the disputed 
transactions as these  were made in Aberdeen while she was at work. However, Miss A 
would still be responsible for the transactions, even if she didnt physically male them,  if they 
were made with her knowledge and agreement. 
And the investigator  couldnt see how anything other than that scenario was possible in the 
light of all the evidence  available, including the lack of access to the mobile banking facility  
by anyone other than Miss A; but also the nature of the transactions,  whereby only a 
relatively small amount  of the funds  available to a fraudster were taken. 
Ref: DRN83041013The investigator therefore didnt recommend the bank needed  to refund to Miss A the value 
of the disputed transactions. Miss A has asked that her complaint be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A has reiterated that she couldnt  have  made  the transactions,  providing evidence  that 
she was at work in Glasgow when the disputed transactions took place in Aberdeen. Shes 
also disappointed  that the bank  cant provide  evidence of how the card and PIN was 
collected in branch, in terms of either documentation  or CCTV.  
She maintains she didnt  collect  the card and PIN, RBS must have breached its procedures 
and the changed email  address after someone  logged on, shows  shes  a victim of fraud.
First, its always  disappointing when a bank cant properly evidence its actions. It seems  to 
me that the bank ought to have been  able to explain when the card and PIN were collected, 
and on what basis they were released.  However,  I dont consider that this evidence  - or the 
lack of it  is pivotal in this matter. 
I need to take into account all the evidence available to me, in order to determine, on 
balance, whether the bank is entitled  to conclude that Miss A consented to the payments 
totalling £500 being made, despite her saying she didnt and also despite her not having 
made them herself. I accept that shes produced evidence that reflects that she was at work,  
in Glasgow, when  the disputed transactions took place in Aberdeen. 
But Miss A doesnt need to have made the disputed  transactions herself,  only consented to 
them being  made and, in this matter, that means having knowledge of someone  being able 
to access her account through use of the card and PIN. 
In short,  here, if Im to accept Miss A didnt make the transactions herself, which  I do, Im 
afraid that I can only conclude - on balance, because I cant of course know  with certainty 
what happened here  that the card and PIN were collected with Miss As knowledge. 
To be clear on that point,  Im not suggesting  that Miss A has contrived this situation, its 
entirely possible that Miss A asked someone  to collect the items for her and perhaps shes 
been taken advantage of: but I dont need  to decide which happened or, indeed,  which  is 
more likely; either scenario would  leave Miss A responsible for the disputed transactions. 
And the reasons why I consider that Miss A must  have had the knowledge I talk about, are 
partly those which have  already been set out by the investigator, and Ive repeated   theres 
no evidence to suggest that anyone  else could have ever known that there was a card and 
PIN to collect; a fraudster  that had intercepted the card and PIN seems most unlikely to have 
only removed the £500 that was taken from the savings account; and theres also no 
evidence as to how Miss As mobile  banking facility  was accessed, in the manner it was, by 
someone other than Miss A.
I should mention  some  further points however. Miss A said that she noticed the transactions  
when she logged onto her mobile banking  in early January. However, someone logged on to 
her mobile banking on 31 December 2018  at 2.13pm, changed the password/PIN, before 
Ref: DRN83041014transferring funds to enable the disputed transactions to be made fairly soon afterwards. 
Miss A cant explain how anyone other than her would have been able to do that. 
But, further to that, even  if the security of the mobile banking  had been  breached  by a third 
party, that change  to the password/PIN would have made it impossible  for Miss A to then 
access the mobile banking facility in early January. Also, the mobile banking facility was 
further accessed on 31 December 2018 at 10.19pm, using a password/PIN  that Miss A 
couldnt have  known, in order to transfer £60 to Miss As account  with the other  bank. 
Miss A hasnt mentioned that the fraudster moved  funds to her account with another  bank, or 
that spending on that other account  wasnt hers.  So there remains a question of either:  why 
a fraudster would have moved that £60 in the way it was; or how Miss A could access the 
mobile banking  facility to move the funds herself.  
So, taking everything  into account, I think its only safe to conclude that, on balance,  its 
more likely than not that Miss A was involved  in the movement of funds from her savings 
account to the current account, and the disputed transactions,  such  that its fair and 
reasonable for RBS to leave the transactions debited against  both accounts and to take no 
further action.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require RBS to refund to Miss A the value of the disputed 
transactions or take any other action in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304101