K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  acted unfairly and unreasonably when dealing 
with her claim under a legal expenses insurance  policy. She wants matters  put right.
background
Ms W had a legal expenses insurance policy  with Aviva. She felt that delays on its part 
meant she couldnt progress a claim before  a vital deadline passed.
Ms W complained to Avivas  agent. It said that it assessed Ms Ws claim (after it took about 
two weeks for her to return  a completed claim form)  and noted that she was aware of the 
issue before  the policy was taken out; it also noted  that part of her claim wasnt  covered by 
the policy anyway.  The agent said this was why it said it couldnt help Ms W, but when she 
responded to explain  why shed given incorrect information in the form, it looked  at the 
matter again.  It understood that Ms W was unhappy that it took a few days  to respond, but 
noted that it tried to answer correspondence  within five working  days, and had done so in 
this case. The agent didnt feel that it had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Matters moved forward and Ms W was referred to a panel solicitor. She refused to sign the 
standard terms as she felt she didnt understand the implications. The panel solicitor  said it 
couldnt act on her behalf if the terms were not signed. Ms W wanted independent legal 
advice, but said too much time was wasted  by Aviva and its agents. She said that she 
shouldnt have to agree terms  with a solicitor to get legal assistance under the policy. 
Aviva said that it took about a month for Ms W to provide the evidence  needed to assess  her 
claim, and it asked a legal firm to review, despite some questions  still being outstanding, due 
to the urgency. It noted Ms W refused to sign the panel solicitors terms of business,  despite 
the contents being explained to her. Aviva noted  another firm refused to accept its terms, so 
couldnt act for Ms W, and it offered to appoint another  firm to consider the claim, but warned 
at some point, Ms W would have to accept their terms and time was running out. Aviva also 
said that it was still open  to Ms W to use the first panel solicitor  if she was willing  to accept 
their terms,  or to go elsewhere if the new firm would accept Avivas  terms. It noted that Ms W 
could pay for her own legal advice  or act for herself  as a solicitor  wasnt  required to send 
documents to the third party considering part of her claim.
Ms W complained to us. The investigators  view was that Aviva wasnt  at fault. He said that 
the quality of the legal advice wasnt something  for which Aviva was responsible  and 
concerns about  legal professionals were  a matter for the Legal Ombudsman Service.  
The investigator noted that Ms W refused  to go ahead  with the panel solicitors appointed by 
refusing to agree to the standard terms. This was why her claim didnt proceed in his view.  
But the investigator said using panel solicitors could save time, particularly when there was a 
deadline looming, and it was necessary to agree the terms on which  the solicitors  would  act 
on Ms Ws behalf. He didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable  for an insurer to have 
standard terms as using  policyholder funds  wisely  was sensible; it meant value for money  
and all policyholders were treated the same.
Ref: DRN80760192The investigator noted that Ms W wanted  to use her own solicitor,  but those solicitors 
wouldnt agree  to Avivas  standard  terms. He said that Aviva then found a firm which could 
assess the prospects  of success of Ms Ws claim without agreeing  terms of business, but 
time ran out. The investigator noted  that even if thered been time to look at the prospects of 
success, it still wouldve  been necessary to agree terms  of business, and Ms W said 
repeatedly that wouldnt  agree to sign any terms. The investigator  also pointed  out that the 
policy couldnt be used  to pursue Aviva or its agents  due to the wording of the terms and 
conditions.
Ms W disagreed. She said her evidence hadnt  been  considered  and her claim still hadnt  
been assessed. Ms W said that the terms of the policy didnt  say she had to accept  a legal 
firms terms of business to go ahead.  She also felt the time shed spend trying  to progress 
her claim had been ignored  by the investigator.  The investigator said the policy made it clear  
the claim had to be assessed  and that terms with the solicitors  had to be agreed.  Ms W 
didnt accept that she was the client of the solicitor; the investigator disagreed and said the 
time Ms W had spent dealing with Aviva was because she wouldnt accept the position.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When I refer to Aviva, Im also referring to 
its claim handling agent.
The policy and its terms
Ms W took out her legal expenses insurance policy as an additional item to her home 
insurance. Such policies  are relatively simple  policies and are comparatively low cost; in 
order to be progressed in a cost-effective way, its usually fair and reasonable for the insurer 
to follow  a standard procedure.
The policy says that it wont  cover claims which the policyholder shouldve or did know  about 
before the policy started;  this is why the start date of the policy  is crucial,  as is what  the 
policyholder knew  about the dispute  and when.  The policy also only covers  some legal 
matters, and says in order to be covered, the claim must be assessed by a qualified lawyer  
and have a reasonable  prospect  of success.  This is fair and reasonable as otherwise limited 
funds may be wasted on hopeless cases and most people wouldnt want to do that.
The policy says that it is necessary for the terms between  Ms W, the legal firm dealing  with 
her claim and Aviva to be agreed, and if Ms W goes to a non-panel solicitor, they have to 
agree to Avivas  terms. One of the issues in Ms Ws case  is that her chosen  solicitor wouldnt 
agree to Avivas  terms, but it isnt unfair or unreasonable  for Aviva  to require this as there  
are many firms who will agree to the terms and the urgent  deadline wasnt  in relation to court  
proceedings. In fact, the urgent issue was connected to a system designed to be used by 
members of the public  and all that was necessary was to send documents  Ms W had.
Ref: DRN80760193Ms W says that it was unfair and unreasonable for her to be required to agree terms with 
whoever legally advised her for her claim to be assessed. I disagree. As a matter of law and 
professional ethics,  a solicitor cannot  represent  a client  without having  agreed the basis of 
the agreement  between them. Ms W was the client as she was bringing  the claim (and later 
defending a claim). Avivas role was to pay the lawyer  dealing with the matter. It is a matter 
for the solicitor when  the agreement is formally agreed, though most choose to do it at the 
start for good reason.  Its possible  for the agreement to be sorted out later in very urgent 
cases, and I note Aviva found one law firm willing  to do that as time passed.  But the policy 
does say its necessary  for the terms between the parties to be agreed, and this is fair and 
reasonable. 
Ms W also says that she couldnt sign due to a dispute over the terms themselves. That isnt 
a matter for Aviva, though I note it did investigate the matter. In light of the impasse between 
Ms W and the first panel  solicitor, Aviva came  up with alternatives.  This is what  this service 
would expect. It was willing  to pay Ms Ws chosen  solicitor  (even  though she didnt have the 
right to pick one at the time), provided  it agreed  to the standard  terms. Aviva was willing  to 
appoint another  panel  solicitor, but so much time passed while Ms W was requiring Aviva to 
agree to her chosen solicitors terms, ultimately this wasnt practical. It was also happy for 
Ms W to return to the first solicitor, but Ms W was adamant that she would not sign any 
terms; this meant this option  was unavailable. I cant find that Aviva has acted  unfairly or 
unreasonably in the circumstances.
Delay
Ms W says her claim was open  for over 99 days  and no action was taken. This isnt correct.  
As soon  as Ms W notified  Aviva of her claim,  action  was taken  to move matters  forward.  But 
it took time for Ms W to provide the necessary  information and the form she completed 
wasnt correct. This delayed matters. Aviva  reconsidered the matter once Ms W explained, 
and despite the possibility  that the claim  mightnt be covered as it may be pre-existing, took 
the pragmatic  view that due to lack of time, it was best to get a lawyer  to look at the claim 
and go from there. There was some delay  while the start date of the policy  was confirmed,  
but given the need  for other information from Ms W, I think  this was a trivial issue.
Once the first panel solicitor was appointed, the delays all focused on Ms Ws refusal to 
accept its terms  of business and the refusal of her chosen solicitors to accept Avivas  terms. 
Ms W complains that her emails and calls werent  responded  to quickly  enough, but I 
disagree. Rarely did it take five working days for a response to be given; I note for example, 
Ms W sent an email after working  hours and objected to waiting overnight for staff to return  
to work and answer her email within a couple of hours. From all the evidence available to 
me, I think  Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in dealing with Ms Ws many  emails and calls 
and in trying  to assist  her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or reject  my decision before 
5 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8076019