K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK plc wont refund money  that was taken from his 
account without  his knowledge  or consent. Hes also unhappy that Barclays closed his 
account and registered his details  with CIFAS, the UKs fraud alert service.  He wants the 
CIFAS marker  removed.
Mr D is being represented in his complaint by A. 
Background
Mr D had a current account  with Barclays.
Mr D had a balance of around £730 in his account at the start of November 2017. Between  9 
and 11 November three payments totalling  £6,500 were made into Mr Ds account. Following 
this a series of disputed  withdrawals took place. Some were ATM withdrawals and others  
were made using an assisted service  device (ASD). By 15 November 2017 only £1.96 
remained in the account. Mr D says he wasnt aware of these  transactions until 26 
November 2017.
When Mr D contacted Barclays  it carried out an internal review. After  it completed its review 
Barclays decided to close Mr Ds account.  And wrote to him on 24 November 2017 to let him 
know he needed to make alternative  banking arrangements. 
Mr D complained to Barclays. He told the bank that hed lost his wallet but wasnt  sure 
exactly when. He explained that his wallet had contained his bank card, some cash  and his 
mobile banking  PIN. Mr D reported his card missing  to Barclays on 27 November 2017 and 
said he thought  he had lost it about  a week before he reported it.
Mr D said the last transaction  he authorised  was one to a retailer for £30 on 2 November 
2017. Mr Ds representative  said that he hadnt  given  his card, PIN or banking details with 
anyone. He also said Mr D had needed  a new phone  as his old one broke.  And Mr D got a 
replacement phone on 18 November  2017 after the fraudulent activity on his account.
Barclays said it wasnt willing to reopen  Mr Ds account and said it had recorded a CIFAS 
marker against Mr Ds name  because  fraudulent  funds had been paid into his account. 
Unhappy with this response Mr D brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought Mr D had authorised  the transactions. This was because: 
Mr Ds mobile  phone and mobile  banking was not compromised 
his mobile phone and number were  in his possession at the relevant time 
he was adamant  that he hadnt handed  his card and PIN to anyone 
there was no plausible explanation for how someone else could have  gained  access  
to Mr Ds card, PIN and banking details and
Mr Ds card was still in his possession at the time of the fraudulent  transactions
Based on this he said it was likely Mr D had been  aware of the fraudulent transactions.  And 
they had been carried out with his consent.  So, he said Barclays  had done nothing  wrong 
when they reported this to CIFAS.  
Mr D disagreed. So, the matter has come  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN88823082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  having done so Ive reached the same 
overall conclusion  as the investigator did and for much the same reasons.
Barclays said it applied the CIFAS  marker  because the funds received into the account were  
fraudulent.
So, Ive looked  at whether  Barclays was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence  it 
had and the investigation it carried out and what the rules say about  applying such markers. 
CIFAS guidance says the business  must have carried out checks  of sufficient  depth  to meet 
the burden of proof set by CIFAS,  which at that time was that Barclays needed to have 
enough information to make a formal complaint to the police or other  relevant  law 
enforcement agencies. And that any filing should be for confirmed cases  of fraud, rather  than 
mere suspicion.  In addition, CIFAS guidance  set out businesses  are expected to retain the 
evidence they rely upon when applying a CIFAS marker for at least six years.
Having reviewed Mr Ds account  of events and the evidence Barclays have provided,  Im 
satisfied Barclays had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded on his file. In 
coming to this view Ive taken into account  the following  reasons:
Mr Ds genuine card and PIN were  used in the transactions. Mr D has said no one 
else knew his PIN and although  he has said the card was lost, the dates he gave 
were after the disputed transactions took place, so his card was in his possession  
during the period of the fraudulent transactions.
Mr Ds date of birth was used as additional  identification for the ASD cash 
withdrawals. And there is no plausible  explanation  how a fraudster would come to 
know Mr Ds date of birth or be able to guess it correctly.
during the period of the disputed transactions Mr Ds log in activity  on mobile banking 
increased dramatically  from 2 or 3 times a day to between  10 and 20 times a day on 
the dates the fraudulent funds were  received  into the account.  That level of mobile 
activity suggests  that Mr D must have been  aware of what  was happening  on his 
account and didnt report it to Barclays.
the technical evidence shows that mobile  banking was accessed from the number 
registered on the account and the device that had been used in the past by Mr D. So, 
although this is unusual activity for Mr D the evidence suggests it was Mr D who 
carried out this mobile  activity. 
Ive also noted  that Mr D still had his old mobile phone during  this time as his phone 
wasnt replaced until 18 November  after the account was blocked.
In conclusion, based on the evidence,  I think its more  likely than not that Mr D was aware 
that fraudulent  funds  were coming  into his account  and looking at the technical  evidence the 
most plausible  explanation  is that Mr D made  the withdrawals himself  as I dont think its 
plausible for a fraudster  to have obtained Mr Ds bank card, PIN , mobile phone and online 
banking information  without his knowledge and consent. 
Ref: DRN88823083In all the circumstances I believe Barclays acted fairly when it closed Mr Ds account and 
registered his details with CIFAS. So, I am not going to ask them  to remove the CIFAS 
marker.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8882308