K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Mr C and the executors (Ms M and Ms C) of the estate of 
his ex-partner, the late Ms H. In the hope that Mr C and the executors wont mind,  I will refer 
to the late Ms H as  Ms H throughout this decision.
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires  (BoS), mis-sold him and 
Ms H a mortgage payment protection insurance policy in 2009, which was added  to their 
existing joint mortgage.  
background
The policy was part of a package called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  A TMPP is 
a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection insurance  
(PPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness  cover  (CIC).  The 
individual elements of the PPI can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
In this particular  case, the policy was in Mr Cs sole name and he was only covered for the 
PPI elements (accident, sickness and unemployment)  of the TMPP. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Ms Hs complaint.
did Mr C and Ms H agree  to the PPI?
Mr C says the policy was sold via a postal application but he hasnt said why he thinks this. 
BoS says the policy  was taken out during a meeting in a branch and has provided 
information to support  this. Looking at that information, it seems to indicate that this was 
sold in-branch. So I think it was most  likely sold in a branch of BoS and  that is how Ive 
viewed the sale.  
During that meeting, BoS shouldve made  Mr C and Ms H aware  the PPI was optional. 
These events took place  a number of years  ago now. We dont  have much  documentary 
evidence to refer to because BoS no longer  has any copies. This is unfortunate, but not 
particularly unusual given  the sale was around 10 years ago.
However, Ive looked at the main points  of complaint put forward by Mr C. The key one is 
that the policy was added without his and Ms Hs consent. Whilst I accept this may well be 
Mr Cs genuine belief  now, weve seen quite a few similar sales to this from that time 
period. And as a result, weve looked in detail at what BoS  sales processes were like.
We know for example  that consumers were  normally  sent or given a letter about the types 
of cover theyd agreed to at the sales interview.  This usually set out that consumers, like Mr 
C and Ms H, had accepted the recommendation to have certain, or all, elements  of the PPI 
policy.
Ref: DRN87788382BoS has been able to provide a copy of the letter about the PPI which  was sent to Mr C and 
Ms H at the time the policy was taken out. In that letter it explained that the policy could be 
cancelled at any time by giving  30 days notice.  If the policy had been added automatically  I 
think its unlikely the option to cancel  it would have been available. 
We were also sent some  screenshots of BoSs internal computer system. Ive seen  quite a 
few of these before and I also know from experience that they show, as in this case, that  
Mr C was asked several  questions relating to the cover  hed agreed  to buy. Because I think  
what was keyed into the BoS computer  system,  would have been done at the time of the 
policy was sold  I think its most likely all aspects  of the PPI were probably  discussed in 
some detail. 
So overall, I think its more likely  Mr C and Ms H agreed to the PPI at the time of the sale.  
were Mr C and Ms H given suitable recommendations?
BoS accepts it recommended the PPI to Mr C and Ms H. So it had to make sure it was 
suitable for them  especially Mr C as the policy was solely in his name.
Mr C appears  to have been  eligible for the PPI cover and not affected by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. Mr C says he didnt have any sick pay benefits 
from his employers but that he did have  some savings to fall back  on. The PPI policy  was 
designed to pay a monthly  sum for up to 12 months if he had needed  to claim. And by 
having the cover, this wouldve meant they could have used any savings they had for other 
essential costs.
Mr C and Ms Hs mortgage was also secured against their home and so the consequences 
of them  not being able to make the repayments  could have been  serious.  I think they 
wouldve wanted to have the security  knowing that Mr Cs share of the mortgage 
repayments were covered  if he was unable to work due to being too unwell or had become 
involuntarily unemployed. 
were they given enough information?
During the sale BoS had to provide information  which was clear  fair and not misleading.  Its 
possible the information BoS gave  Mr C and Ms H about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But it looks the policy would have been  useful to them  if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI wouldve put Mr C and Ms H off taking out the cover.   All this means I dont think the 
PPI ultimately was mis-sold. 
I know Mr C feels  strongly  and will be disappointed by this outcome. Hes put time and effort  
into this complaint. And Ive thought carefully  about  all the points  hes raised, including  what 
he has said about the fact that had he known he had the cover he would have made  a claim 
on it when he needed to take time off work during the time he had the policy. But this point 
doesnt change  my decision for the reasons Ive explained above. But Mr C may be entitled 
to make a retrospective claim. If hed like to do this, he should  get in touch with BoS to see if 
he can start a claim.    
Ref: DRN87788383Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr C some  of the commission he and    
Ms H paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr C and Ms Hs 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So BoS doesnt need to refund any of 
the commission Mr C and Ms H paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold the complaint. I dont direct Bank of Scotland  
Plc to do anything more  than the above,  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C and the 
executors  Ms M and Ms C - to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8778838