K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about an NRAM-branded mortgage that, until recently, Mr and Mrs K held 
with Landmark  Mortgages Limited.  They complain that NRAM wrongly  advised  them  that 
they owed less than they actually did, causing  them to spend money that it later turned out 
they didnt actually have available.
background 
Briefly, Mr and Mrs K were looking to re-mortgage,  and needed  to know  how much they 
owed on their NRAM mortgage. The mortgage was made up of two separate  accounts; the 
main mortgage and a further advance. Although  the total amount owed was the aggregate of 
the two account  balances,  the dispute here is about  just one of them, the main mortgage. In 
this decision, I refer solely to the main mortgage, and to ensure  theres  no risk of 
identification when  the decision is published,  Ive rounded the figures  involved.
Mr K spoke to NRAM on 14 September 2018 to find out how much they owed; the note he 
made of the balance  he was given for the main mortgage  was around £104,000. This was 
less than Mr and Mrs K were expecting, and reasoning that theyd have some extra  cash left 
over after completion, they booked  a family  holiday. Then, in subsequent calls made by their 
solicitor, and in the written  redemption paperwork issued in preparation for completion,  
NRAM confirmed the balance to be around £112,000.
This meant Mr and Mrs K didnt have the money  they thought theyd have after completion, 
and theyve had to pay off the cost of the holiday in instalments. When they complained,  
NRAM apologised for having misled them  and offered £100  compensation  for the distress  it 
had caused them. Mr and Mrs K didnt accept the offer and referred their complaint here. 
When we asked NRAM for its account of events, it told us that it had upheld the complaint by 
mistake. Having checked the 14 September 2018  phone call again,  it said it hadnt actually 
given the wrong  figure.
Our adjudicator listened to the call, and agreed  that NRAM had told Mr K the balance  was 
£112,000, not £104,000. He concluded that NRAM had wrongly upheld the complaint, and in 
doing so, had caused Mr and Mrs K further distress  by raising  their expectations.  NRAM 
agreed to add a further £50 to its original  compensation  offer,  making £150 in all. 
Mr and Mrs K asked  for their complaint  to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  They  say theres  
a missing call record  that NRAM hasnt disclosed;  the one in which it told Mr K the balance 
was £104,000.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. In doing that, I have to 
decide what is most likely to have happened, given the available evidence from both sides.  
Thats broadly  the same test used by the courts in civil cases. 
Ref: DRN88232462A useful  starting  point  here is that at no time has there been  any suggestion that the closing 
balance of £112,000 is itself wrong, and that Mr and Mrs K have paid more than they owe. 
The complaint is solely about what they were or (werent)  told that prompted them to book 
the holiday. They made the booking on 22 September 2018, so anything was said in 
conversations or in writing after that date isnt relevant to the outcome of the complaint. 
This complaint turns on what Mr and Mrs K were told before 22 September 2018, which 
takes me directly to the phone  call of 14 September  2018. That call has been made available  
to them,  and it seems they now accept it indicates  that NRAM told Mr K the main  mortgage 
balance was £112,000, not £104,000.  Ive listened  to it, and Im satisfied the figure given 
was £112,000. That takes me next to Mr Ks assertion that theres  a missing call; the one on 
which he was told £104,000. Ive thought very hard about that, but I have to say Im not 
persuaded there was one. 
Firstly, NRAM  says it has provided  recordings  of all conversations relating to the redemption 
of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage last year. We dont automatically take what  a business says on 
face value but generally speaking, business call records are reliable. Mr K told us hed get 
evidence of the missing  call from his phone service  provider. He said that in April of this 
year, so Im satisfied hes had time to do so. That weve not received anything  points to the 
greater likelihood  that there  isnt a missing call. 
But theres more. If there had been  another call in which NRAM told Mr K they owed 
£104,000, Id expect their reaction to being  told £112,000 on 14 September  2018 to be very 
different from what it was. Let me explain what I mean.
If the missing call had happened  first, it seems to me that Mr K, on being told the balance 
was £112,000, would there and then, have challenged the call handler and said, along  the 
lines of: But I was told £104,000  when  I called before; why has it gone up?.
Meanwhile, if the missing  call had happened  after the 14 September 2018 call, the natural 
reaction would have been  to say: But I was told £112,000 when I called before; why has it 
gone down?.  
In either  scenario, it seems unlikely that Mr and Mrs K would just ignore the conflicting 
information and book a holiday.  Put all of that together, and the conclusion I draw is that 
Mr K simply made a mistake;  that is, he misheard the answer to his question during the 
14 September 2018 call and wrote  down the wrong figure. 
I know Mr Ks firmly of the belief that didnt happen  but its what the available  evidence points 
to as being the most likely  explanation. It doesnt  mean, as Mr and Mrs K seem to fear, that I 
think Mr K acted  foolishly; I think he most  likely just misheard what the agent said (and Ill 
come back  to that shortly). Nor do I think that he and Mrs K have in any way acted  
dishonestly in pursuing their complaint. They clearly believe in their case, and Im satisfied  
theyve brought  it in good faith.
Of course,  that still begs  the question of why NRAM initially  upheld the complaint, referring in 
its final response to having  listened  to the call and heard the wrong  balance  being given. 
Mr and Mrs K are understandably suspicious about  this, and it has no doubt added to their 
belief there  must be another  call. One possible explanation is the case  handler  didnt  listen  
to the call, and instead  took their word on face value  and offered what  the business  would 
consider a pragmatic  settlement.
Ref: DRN88232463But I think theres an even  simpler  explanation. When I played the call recording the first 
time, it was just possible to imagine  the twelve sounded a little like four. I had to re-play it 
to be absolutely certain the call agent had said twelve. That might  explain how Mr K 
misheard it in the first place and how the complaint handler came  to the wrong  conclusion.  
What it doesnt do is make NRAM liable for Mr and Mrs K booking the holiday.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part only. In 
full and final settlement,  I direct Landmark  Mortgages Limited  to pay Mr and Mrs K £150. I 
make no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8823246