K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. It 
covered Mr G in case he was off work sick or lost his job.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive have not found that this policy was mis-sold,  for the following reasons:
This policy was sold over two decades  ago and has long since  closed. So I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents  from the sale.  Indeed, 
under data protection rules Halifax  were  required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Gs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr G only remembered going into the branch to sign 
his mortgage paperwork and doesnt remember being told about PPI or agreeing to it. 
I also think thats understandable, bearing in mind  that memories  can and do fade over 
time, that this sale was particularly long ago, and that buying  insurance is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based  on 
the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have misled  Mr and Mrs G into 
having PPI. But I have no evidence which shows thats what  Halifax did here. Nor have 
I seen any wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this sale was too long 
ago for me to reasonably  expect Halifax to be able to produce paperwork from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont think I have a fair basis on which  to conclude that Halifax  
misled Mr and Mrs G. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively  standard  sales 
process, gave them  a choice about  PPI, and that they chose it at the time  though I can 
understand if they no longer remember choosing  PPI after so many years.
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs G, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check that the policy  was right for them  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, it looks like Mr G was the main earner  at the time, was eligible for the cover, 
and wasnt affected by any of its main  exclusions  or limitations.
The PPI offered Mr G much more comprehensive cover than he seems to have already 
had, and it wouldve  paid out on top of his existing work benefits. Its worth bearing in 
mind that the mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment,  and if Mr and Mrs G fell 
behind on the payments  they couldve lost their home. So the PPI couldve really been 
useful for them  in protecting their home and providing some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN81222692Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs G about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better  information  was likely to 
have changed  their minds. But as I said above, it doesnt look like Mr G was affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI, and it could have really  been useful for 
Mr and Mrs G in case something went  wrong.  The PPI was competitively priced given  
how much  it could  pay out. And it was paid on a rolling monthly  basis,  so Mr and Mrs G 
could cancel it at any time without  a penalty.  Overall, I dont think  better information about 
the PPI was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Halifax  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Halifax  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading  as Halifax) does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) does  have  to pay back  to Mr and Mrs G any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8122269