K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1995 sometime after taking out a mortgage. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  how Mr M applied  for his PPI policy. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  around £270 a month  towards Mr Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £14.20 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed in machine operation. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any sick pay or redundancy pay. He has told us he had some savings  between three and 
six months worth of pay - that he could use to repay  his mortgage should he be unable  to 
work. Mr M has said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2001.
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr M about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN85945552Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN85945553other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr M know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds no longer has the documents available from the time of the sale to show  us how PPI 
was presented. This is understandable given the length of time since the sale.  However, I 
Ref: DRN85945554note that Mr M took the mortgage out in 1989 without PPI. He took PPI out around six years 
later. In these circumstances  I think it would have been clear  to Mr M that the policy  was 
optional. And I havent seen any evidence  to be able to conclude  that Mr M was pressured  
into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds has treated this as an advised sale. Mr M says Lloyds didnt provided advice. Given  
that that the PPI was sold in connection  with a mortgage and Lloyds has agreed to treat this 
as an advised  sale together with the fact that this places  Mr M in a better  position  in terms of 
the increased duties  on Lloyds  in an advised  sale, Ive considered this complaint on the 
basis that Lloyds  provided advice.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr M. It seems Mr M cant remember clearly  what happened  and there 
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. The adviser had some 
limited information about  Mr Ms financial circumstances, but there is no specific  evidence to 
show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr M would  have been  caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet his 
needs. For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr M had any 
pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr M given his circumstances.  So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr M had a need for the policy  it seems  likely that Mr Ms ability to continue  to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Mr M was not working  
for an extended period of time. He has told us he wasnt  entitled to sick pay (any sick 
pay would have  been limited to statutory  sick pay) and has not mentioned  any 
entitlement to redundancy pay. He has mentioned savings, but these were not 
guaranteed. And even if they were still available to him when the need arose, they 
could have been used to meet  essential living expenses while the PPI took care of 
the mortgage repayments.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr M.
Ref: DRN85945555-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr M. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ms employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult  
for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr M has told us about  
an injury he suffered from in around 1983.  However, he hasnt  mentioned that this 
caused him any ongoing problems  once he was treated for it. So this doesnt appear 
to me to be caught by the policy limitations and exclusions.  
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr M be unemployed for 60 days before 
he could make a claim (for unemployment) and would only pay benefits  for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: Mr Ms 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to his 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr M be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr M sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr M Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr M all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN85945556-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr M? To what extent did Mr M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr M suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr M would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr M, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr M would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr M says he wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr M had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN85945557Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told him the exact premium at the point Mr M applied 
for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr M would have been  told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr M would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given the exact figure at the point that he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr M would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ms expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his mortgage  
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims for any disability which happened during the 12 months 
before the date when the policy  became effective and for which  Mr M consulted or 
received treatment from a medical practitioner
 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be totally 
unable to work and not be carrying out any other occupation;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy  wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr M says he had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out, I dont think better information about  this exclusion would have put 
him off agreeing  to it. I say this because the medical condition  he has told us about  was an 
injury he suffered from in around 1983. However,  there is no evidence to suggest  that this 
injury worsened over time or caused  him ongoing  problems such  that he would have thought 
that he might  need to take time off work because of it some  12 years  later.
Ref: DRN85945558And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr M might  reasonably  
have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a disability claim 
without having  to provide some evidence to support  that claim. And while this exclusion and 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr M 
from taking out the policy,  Mr M in his circumstances, still had some good reasons  to take it 
out.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was totally  unable to work  (and not 
be carrying out any other occupation), it might have played into his thinking about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr Ms 
circumstances, on balance, I still think he would  have  been interested in taking out the cover.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr M that any claim he made would be limited  to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what he expected and might have hoped  for  but he 
had limited other means to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  if Mr M was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr M 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Ms 
Ref: DRN85945559circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1995 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr M and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8594555