K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about  CIS General Insurance Limited (CIS), trading as Co-Op, for its 
decision to provide home insurance cover, and then for its later decision to void their policy. 
Mr and Mrs R want CIS to reinstate  their policy, and allow their most recent claim, and / or to 
remove the cancellation from their record as this is causing them  to incur higher premiums.  
background
Mr and Mrs R previously held home insurance with another provider. 
Whilst with that provider, Mr and Mrs R made  claims on their home  insurance  for damage 
following a leak, and subsequently for damage  to a pair of glasses. These  claims were  in 
spring and summer  2018, respectively.
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs R applied  for different insurance, through  a comparison website. 
They input details  about their needs and history and received  a variety of quotes,  including  
from CIS. 
Mr and Mrs R selected the policy offer from CIS and initiated  their policy.  In response to the 
question about  previous  claims, they were asked In the past 5 years,  have you or anyone 
living with you made any buildings, contents  or personal belongings claims, or suffered any 
loss or damage (regardless of whether a claim was made or not). 
Mr and Mrs R gave details of their claim following the leak, but did not disclose the claim  
involving the pair of glasses. 
CIS wrote to Mr and Mrs R, setting out the information provided at application and asking 
that they check this information. Mr and Mrs R did not make any changes to this information. 
The policy was initiated and Mr and Mrs R paid their premiums as usual. 
Some time later, in early 2019, Mr and Mrs R experienced  a further  instance  of damage at their 
home. A television unit failed and resulted  in both the unit and the television being  damaged.  
They submitted a claim for this damage. 
CIS made further enquiries into Mr and Mrs Rs claims  history  with their previous provider and 
learned that a second claim,  related to the glasses, had been made and had not been declared.  
CIS wrote to Mr and Mrs R, rejecting their claim and setting out that under their underwriting  
criteria, had Mr and Mrs Rs full claims history  been  declared at the outset, CIS would not have 
offered cover.  CIS therefore decided to cancel  the policy and refund all the premiums that 
Mr and Mrs R had paid. CIS noted  that this cancellation would need to be declared  in future.
Mr and Mrs R were not happy with this and complained. During  the course of speaking  with 
staff at CIS, Mr and Mrs R were told that CIS had a policy to carry out claims history checks  
at the start of cover.  They felt that if CIS had checked their claims history  at the outset, CIS 
would have queried the additional claim and Mr and Mrs R would  have been  reminded of the 
glasses claim. They  feel that had this been  done  they would have had the opportunity  to 
obtain cover  elsewhere.  
Ref: DRN80722682CIS sent them its final response in March 2019. CIS rejected  their complaint and reiterated that it 
was the responsibility  of applicants and policy holders to accurately and fully disclose information.  
Mr and Mrs R were not satisfied and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. 
This was that CIS had acted reasonably  in voiding  the policy because Mr and Mrs R had not 
disclosed the glasses  claim. In respect of Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  that CIS should  have 
identified the claim at the outset of the policy, he considered that it was not obvious what the 
claim related to from the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE)  information,  so CIS 
would still have relied on Mr and Mrs R providing  full information about the claim. He 
therefore did not consider that CIS had done  anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs R did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have paid particular  regard to the information requested of, and given to, Mr and Mrs R 
when applying for cover, and the information held by CUE about  their previous claims. 
Mr and Mrs R have previously accepted that, if they had properly declared the claim relating 
to the glasses, that CIS would not have offered them insurance. This was based on CIS 
demonstrating that their underwriting  criteria excluded people with two or more  claims in the 
past three years. I therefore will not repeat the reasoning of the investigator as to why CIS 
was entitled to reject the claim and void the policy.  
Mr and Mrs R focus instead on the information  they were told after submitting their 2019 claim,  
which suggested to them that CIS should  have checked CUE information at the start of every 
policy. They  feel that, had this been done, then they would  have  learned  at an earlier  stage 
that they needed insurance elsewhere,  and would have been  able to obtain alternative cover  
for the loss. They describe their worry  that had there been a house fire and all their 
possessions lost then they would have  learned  far too late that their cover was not valid. 
The investigator set out his views  on this point,  and pointed to the information held by CUE. 
This indicated that a limited claim had been made,  but did not set out what it was for. CIS 
queried this with Mr and Mrs R after their 2019  claim, but as Mr and Mrs R had forgotten  
about the glasses claim,  they initially indicated that this must be linked  to the leak claim. CIS 
only learned about the glasses claim when contacting Mr and Mrs Rs previous insurer.  
The investigator therefore considered that, even if CIS had carried out detailed checks at the 
point of application, it was unlikely that the information would have made any difference to 
whether the policy  was put in place.  This is because it still relied upon Mr and Mrs R giving 
full information,  which they had forgotten.  
I agree  with this view,  and think that whenever  the CUE  search had been done  it would  have 
only resulted in CIS making further  checks with Mr and Mrs R. If Mr and Mrs R had forgotten  
about the claim then it would have made  no difference. 
Ref: DRN80722683Beyond this, however, I also consider that it is not the responsibility of the insurer to check  
the accuracy of all details  provided by an applicant, at the time of application. Insurance is 
offered on the basis of full information being given in good  faith,  and applicants  are given the 
opportunity to check and confirm this information  within a period. 
In this instance, the application form question asking about claims was clearly  set out and 
included guidance  about what information  was required. It was incumbent upon  Mr and Mrs R, 
when completing  this, to read and understand the question  and to give all required  information. 
After the application had been accepted, CIS then sent a policy  schedule  to Mr and Mrs R, 
which set out the information they had provided  to the comparison site, and asked that they 
check that the information was correct. The letter explained that if any information was incorrect  
Mr and Mrs R should call CIS immediately, as failure  to do so could invalidate your policy.  
This schedule detailed only one previous claim. 
CIS also provided policy terms, which repeated that it is the policy holders  responsibility  to 
provide accurate and complete information.  It set out that failure to do so could result in 
increasing the price  of cover,  rejecting  claims made, reducing any payment offered, or the 
policy being made void. 
I understand that there was no intention  to withhold information and Mr and Mrs R had 
simply forgotten about the glasses claim as it had not been  a significant claim, but it 
remained their responsibility  to ensure that they gave accurate and full information on their 
previous claims.  
CIS were entitled to carry out further  investigations  into the information given, but were not 
required to do so. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  view that CIS has not acted unreasonably in respect 
of this claim and I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
I realise that this decision will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs R, but I hope  it is clear why I 
have reached it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint and I do not ask 
CIS General Insurance Limited to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8072268