K820x#14complaint
Mr W brings this complaint on behalf of E, a limited company. The complaint is that East 
West Insurance Company Limited (East West) poorly handled a claim under a building  
guarantee policy. Its said there were delays in dealing with the claim and it was unfairly 
rejected.
background
I set out the background  in a provisional decision last month explaining why I wasnt  minded 
to uphold Es complaint against  East West. Ive attached a copy of that decision below.
In summary,  the claim related to damaged  balconies  on a block  of apartments  that East 
West refused to cover on the basis that balconies were not Habitable Interior.
East West accepted  my provisional decision  but Mr W, on behalf of E, did not. He says;
the policy doesnt offer sufficient clarity as to what  is defined  as habitable interior. 
Balconies should be specifically excluded if that was the intention.
With their proliferation  in modern apartment  blocks, to omit them as a specific 
exclusion creates ambiguity leading to unfairness.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said in my provisional decision about the balconies, that the policy  covers  major damage, 
which includes rising  dampness or damp  penetration into the habitable interior  of the New 
Home except through windows, doors  and frames and associated  openings caused by a 
Defect.
The balconies are not enclosed and are exposed to the vagaries of the weather system.  So, 
for example, in rainy conditions the balconies are likely to become wet. The purpose  of the 
policy is to cover rising dampness or damp penetration into the habitable interior. It would 
seem contrary to the contract  as a whole if it were intended to cover dampness in exposed 
exterior areas of the new home that would  be exposed to weather  conditions, like the 
balconies. Such an event would be a virtual  certainty to a arise, and to cover the outside 
space would, in my view,  be contrary to business common  sense  and general  insurance 
principles based  on risk.
For these reasons and those set out in my provisional decision (attached),  Im not persuaded 
to change my view on what I consider  is a fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN80025402my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against East West Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN80025403Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr W brings this complaint on behalf of E, a limited  company. The complaint is that East West  
Insurance Company  Limited (East West) poorly  handled a claim  under  a building guarantee policy. 
Its said there were delays in dealing with the claim and it was unfairly  rejected.
background
The policy covered a building  which had several individual apartments. Defects were identified  with 
some balconies around 2006/7  which  were dealt with by the insurer. Further  issues arose  in 2015  and 
E, the buildings management company, lodged a claim for repairs  to be done.  In July 2016 the work  
was approved  but in January  2017 East Wests loss adjuster notified E that the claim wouldnt be 
covered. This was on the basis that the balconies  fell outside the policy definition of Habitable 
Interior. 
Mr W says that there were two other water ingress claims  raised but had not heard  anything about  
these.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and initially didnt think East West had acted  
unfairly. He explained that the two water  ingress claims had initially been reported to the developer in 
2007. The policy says the developer is responsible for issues within the first two years  and remains  
responsible for rectifying major damage  notified in the first two years, even  if they havent repaired  the 
damage. East Wests responsibility in this period  only materialises where the developer  becomes 
bankrupt or unjustifiably refuses in writing  to rectify the damage. There was no such evidence and so 
the investigator didnt think East West had acted unfairly.
Regarding the balconies, the investigator explained the policy covers major damage, which includes 
rising dampness or damp  penetration into the habitable interior of the New Home except through  
windows, doors and frames and associated openings caused by a Defect. 
East West didnt consider  the balcony to be habitable interior and so rejected  the claim. The 
investigator agreed saying the balcony  might be deemed habitable, but it was exposed  to the outside 
environment and so wasnt internal or interior. He also referred to the London Development Agencys  
Housing Design Guide, which appeared to categorise a balcony as open space in keeping with 
gardens and terraces. So, it didnt meet the policy coverage as the balcony  wasnt interior.
Mr W disagreed saying  the balconies  do not overhang and are within the footprint of the building  and 
could be viewed as interior, and the insurer previously repaired some balconies. The investigator 
said the insurer had explicitly said the claims  previously dealt with were  in error and he remained 
satisfied the balconies were  external space unprotected from the elements.  But looking at an email  
from 2016,  which said the balconies  were  accepted  under  the claim,  the investigator thought  there 
had been a loss of expectation for the affected leaseholders.  He said East West should  pay £250 
compensation for each. Neither  Mr W for E, or East West agreed with the investigators opinion  albeit, 
Mr W was willing to accept the £250 per leaseholder.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Its useful  to set out my reasons under three headings;
The two water ingress issues
The balconies
Compensation
Ref: DRN80025404Two water ingress issues
The investigator correctly  explained that these were both reported to the developer within  the first two 
years and so thats where responsibility for rectification lay. And unless there was evidence that the 
developer had become  bankrupt or unjustifiably  refused in writing to rectify  the damage, East Wests 
responsibility didnt materialise. Im not satisfied  East West has acted unfairly.
The balconies
Again, the investigator  correctly identified  the issue at the heart of this aspect of the complaint,  that is 
whether the balconies are habitable interior. Balconies may be part of the accommodations  living 
space, but the balconies in this complaint  are not fully enclosed and are exposed to the external  
environment. So, I agree with the investigator that the balconies in this complaint are not habitable 
interior. Ive considered representations made on behalf of E, but they do not persuade me that the 
balconies are habitable interior.
Compensation
The investigators  recommendation is based  on the loss of expectation that a claim  would  be covered. 
E has its own legal personality and represents the leaseholders of the block (also  shareholders in the 
management company). Leaseholders  received  a benefit  they werent contractually entitled to when 
some balconies were repaired by the insurer around 2007. Around 8 years passed before the 
circumstances arose in this complaint. And while  the loss adjusters confirmed  the balconies would be 
covered, they reversed  this a few months later, explaining the previous mistake and that the current 
claim wouldnt  be dealt with. I understand the company and the leaseholders were  disappointed to 
hear the claim wouldnt be covered. But Im not satisfied compensation is warranted  in this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN8002540