K820x#14complaint
Mr I says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr I applied for a credit  card in 1994. His credit  card application form was ticked  to say he 
wanted PPI. Mr I says the tick isnt his and PPI was added without his knowledge or consent.  
He also says he didnt  need it because, among other things, he had an income protection  
plan.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Is complaint didnt uphold it. Mr I disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Is complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Ive looked at a copy  of Mr Is signed credit card application form, most of which it seems he 
filled in himself. Theres a section thats headed  Optional features  and, immediately 
beneath this, theres  another  section  headed Payment Protection Plan.  Beneath this is a 
statement saying: To protect  your  repayments against accident,  death, sickness and 
involuntary unemployment, please  tick here. On Mr Is application form, theres  a tick in the 
box next to this statement.
Mr I says the tick in the box isnt his and mustve been added by Lloyds later. He says the 
tick is different to the other ticks on the form. And he says some of the writing on it isnt his. I 
agree some of the writing   for example, Mr Is mothers maiden name,  some  of the account 
details that have been filled in and the counter-signature   looks different to the rest and was 
probably added by someone else  either  at the time Mr I filled in the form or later.  But I 
dont think the tick in the PPI box looks different to some of the other ticks elsewhere on the 
form  for example, where Mr I has ticked to select his marital and housing  status.  
While its possible  the tick was added  after Mr I had filled in the form by someone else, the 
evidence Ive got isnt strong enough  for me to think it would be fair and reasonable to say 
this is likely. I know this isnt how Mr I remembers things  and I dont  doubt  the honesty  of 
his recollections  but from the evidence I have  I think its more  likely the tick was made by 
Mr I because, at the time, he wanted  PPI. And if he hadnt wanted it, I think  he couldve left 
this part of the form blank. 
Because Im not upholding Mr Is complaint on this point, Ive gone on to see if there are any 
other reasons why I should do so. But I dont  think there are. Lloyds has treated the sale of 
Mr Is PPI as if it recommended the cover to him. So it needed to make  sure it was right for 
him in his circumstances.  From what Mr I says of these and from the policy terms Lloyds  
says wouldve applied,  I think  it was right for him. I say this because:
Ref: DRN88484842Mr I was eligible for the PPI. And he wasnt affected by any of the main  things  it 
wouldnt have covered  like known health  issues or unusual  employment terms. So 
there was nothing to stop Mr I claiming the full policy  benefit if hed needed  to.
To support his position  that he didnt agree to the PPI and so didnt know he had it, 
Mr I says he had some periods when  he was off work sick or was unemployed when 
he didnt make a claim. If Mr I has any evidence of these  periods, he may still be able 
to make retrospective claims on the policy for them. But he would need  to contact 
Lloyds about this in the first instance.  
I think the PPI gave Mr I potentially useful cover. Its not clear what  sick pay Mr I got 
at the time  weve  got different information  on the two PPI questionnaires we have 
on his file. But the PPI wouldve helped with his card repayments  for up to 12 months 
for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim he made  and this 
wouldve been on top of any sick pay he got and potentially  for longer than it mightve  
lasted.
Mr I says he had an income  replacement plan through his work at the time. But, 
unsurprisingly given  how long ago this was, he cant remember the details of the 
policy, and his employer  is no longer  in existence. The information  Mr I has about the 
plan isnt detailed  enough for me to think its more likely than not it duplicated the 
cover the PPI gave.  So, again, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  
Mr Is complaint on the basis of the limited information I have about the income 
protection plan.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the PPI premiums were  unaffordable for  
Mr I.
Lloyds also needed  to give Mr I enough  clear information about the PPI for him to decide if 
he wanted it. I think its likely some of the information it gave him couldve been  clearer than 
it was  particularly  about its true cost and benefits, as well as the things  it didnt cover. But 
for much the same reasons I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for Mr I, I dont think  clearer 
information would have changed his mind about taking it. So I dont think Mr I has lost out 
because of anything  Lloyds may have  done  wrong when it sold him the PPI. So theres 
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8848484