K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains he was given  incorrect information by Brachers LLP about how his credit file 
would be affected  by a payment arrangement and the time it would take to clear his debt.  He 
wants his credit file cleared or the balance settled. And he wants substantial compensation.
background
Mr G tells us he contacted Brachers about  a debt he owed to a lender Ill call A. He says he 
was willing  to make provision for full payment but was told payments of £100 per month  
would not have an adverse effect on his credit record.  And he was later told the debt would 
be cleared in 36 months if payments  were maintained at this rate. He says he took this to 
mean charges and interest had been  frozen. Mr G says his credit file has been marked with 
the details of the payment  arrangement and the interest and charges were not frozen.  
Brachers told us it accepted the information given to Mr G - about how the payment 
arrangement would impact his credit file - had not been totally correct. But it said hed 
indicated he was unable  to pay the full balance and would maintain payments at £100  per 
month. Hed also refused  to go through an income  and expenditure check. Brachers also 
accepted a payment schedule Mr G had been  sent might - in isolation  - have given the 
impression the debt would be cleared. But as thered been no express statement  that 
interest had been  frozen it felt Mr G should have  been aware from the terms and conditions  
of the account  that interest would  be added.  And it said hed have received monthly 
statements which would have also shown this. Brachers said it had sent a cheque  for £100 
as a gesture of goodwill  and by way of apology.
The adjudicator did not recommend this complaint should be upheld. He accepted  Mr G had 
been told the payment arrangements would not be reported to credit reference  agencies 
(CRA). But he didnt  think this was likely to have changed Mr Gs decision to enter the 
arrangement - as he had been unable to settle the debt in full. And he didnt  think it was 
reasonable to think interest and charges had been  frozen. He thought  the £100 
compensation paid was fair.
Mr G didnt agree and said hed be in a much better situation but for the mistake. He didnt 
think the compensation was enough  and said he hadnt cashed the cheque.  He wanted an 
ombudsman to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr G has experienced the upset and frustration which this situation has obviously 
caused him. And I can see why he feels hes been  misled - although I think its more a case 
of a lack of clarity in some of the information  hes received from Brachers rather than wholly 
incorrect information.
Where evidence is incomplete, unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I decide  what I think  is the most  
likely explanation for whats occurred.
Ref: DRN86038402It seems  the background to this complaint  started  when A decided to close  Mr Gs credit 
account. This led to a situation where  the whole of the outstanding  amount - in excess of 
£3,000 - became payable immediately rather than by the minimum monthly contractual 
payments. Brachers  became responsible for collecting the debt on behalf of A in early 2017.
In January 2017 Mr G contacted Brachers  and thats  when the first problem arose.  He was 
told if he kept paying £100  per month  it wouldnt adversely  impact  his credit file. It appears 
the call handler  was unaware  the account  had been cancelled and that £100 per month  
would no longer be sufficient to cover  the contractual amount due. 
The situation  was compounded immediately  afterwards when Mr G was sent a schedule  of 
payments. This set out how £100 per month payments would clear his account by 2020.  But 
the schedule made  no reference to any interest or charges  being  applied which would 
extend the period.
Unfortunately, the call recordings of Mr Gs contact with Brachers  in January 2017 arent 
available. But as Brachers has accepted the information Mr G was given wasnt wholly  
correct Im happy to accept he was left with the impression that he could continue  payments  
with no adverse effect on his credit file.
Lenders which report transactions  to CRAs are required  to ensure those reports are an 
accurate reflection of the account behaviour. So if a customer is unable to meet contractual  
payments - and enters into a formal  arrangement  - that fact is recorded. If Mr G had paid the 
whole amount - as he says he could have done  - his credit file would have recorded  this 
account as settled.
The notes of the conversation taken by the call handler record  that Mr G explained he 
couldnt pay the whole amount. And I think that is the likely explanation as to why he agreed 
to continue paying at £100  per month.  Although  hes said he could have asked for help from 
other family members to clear the balance - Ive seen no evidence hes done so since 
learning of the correct  situation. He told the adjudicator in November  2018  there  was still 
over £2,000 owing.  So its more likely than not he would still have entered  into a payment 
arrangement of some kind even  if hed known it would be recorded on his credit file.
And whilst I accept the payment schedule was unclear  I cant agree this has resulted in any 
loss to Mr G. Ive seen no evidence that he was ever expressly told that interest or charges 
would be frozen. Although  Mr G made that assumption, it would - or at least should - have 
become apparent when the next monthly statement  was sent that this was not the case. The 
statements of February 2017  and March  2017 clearly show  interest  has been applied.  So 
any misunderstanding was very short-lived. And in order to avoid any further  interest 
charges Mr G would  have needed  to pay off the outstanding balance.  As hes not done so I 
can only infer hes either  chosen not do to so or was unable  to access the necessary lump  
sum.
Mr G has told us he hasnt cashed  the cheque for £100 which was sent to him. But thats a 
matter entirely for him. Not every  error  by a business requires monetary compensation 
where no actual loss has resulted. An apology and acknowledgement  of error may well be 
sufficient.
So I think Brachers offer of £100 by way of apology and compensation was fair and 
reasonable. It is my understanding  that Brachers  is in the process of sending a replacement 
cheque as the original (uncashed) cheque  is now likely to be out of date. 
Ref: DRN86038403In summary,  I dont think Mr G has suffered any financial loss or detriment as a direct 
consequence of any error by Brachers.  So it would not be fair and reasonable to hold 
Brachers responsible  for what Mr G sees as the worsening of his financial situation.  And I 
shant be asking it to do anything more.
It remains a matter of choice for Mr G whether or not to cash  the compensation cheque.  But 
my final decision brings  to an end the involvement of this service and its attempts at an 
informal resolution of this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8603840