K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limited (the business)  is unable to 
say what happened  to the policies  held by his father, two of which were in his name. 
He feels that the proceeds of the policies have been  appropriated by fraud, either by the 
business or a third party. 
 
background
Mr Rs father, Mr R1, passed away in 1989. A life policy in Mr R1s name was surrendered in 
August 1989.  
Mr R1 also had two policies in Mr Rs name.  Mr R says his mother  had passed away in 1970  
so his father was the only surviving parent at the time. 
The business hasnt  upheld the complaint. It says two policies in the name  of Mr R were  
surrendered in February 1990. But because the proceeds were paid out some 29/30 years  
ago it no longer holds the payee  information  or any further documentation.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The business records  look genuine  and theres no reason to doubt that the 
payments werent made as recorded. 
Our service wouldnt expect the business  to keep the paperwork for this length of 
time, so it hasnt done anything  wrong by not being able to produce  better  records. 
And given the passage  of time its unlikely  to get any further with its investigations 
anyway. 
It looks like there  were  three  policies, the premiums for which  were likely  to have 
been collected at the door. This was standard practice given that relatively  few 
people had chequebook accounts in those days. The premiums  paid would be 
logged by the local agent in the consumers premium receipt  book. 
There seems  to be a legitimate claim on Mr R1s policy following his death   paying 
around £149.11  although this money may not have been paid through probate.
Either way, the money would  become  payable  immediately  following the death  of the 
life assured (in this instance  Mr R1) so the executor  would be entitled to the money. 
The death  claim cant be paid without a death certificate so its likely one must  have 
been produced  before  the money  was paid.  
Its not clear whats happened with the two policies in Mr Rs name. They were 
initially owned by Mr R1 and then upon his death probably by his estate. They  were  
surrendered 10 months after the first policy was surrendered.  
The combined amount  for the two polices was £54.77. Because the original policy 
document was missing all that would be required to claim was a lost policy 
declaration for each  policy. Upon payment a printed receipt showing the amount and 
policy number, and possibly the premiums paid,  would be provided to the payee. 
Its likely  someone who knew it could be surrendered  by signing the lost policy  
declaration received  the money. That could be the executor (a third party business) 
or the beneficiary who was always Mr R.
Its possible that Mr R was the victim of fraud,  but hes seen no evidence of this.
Its likely  the payment was made to the estate and used to pay the executor, or the 
proceeds were paid to Mr R but hes just forgotten. 
Ref: DRN84085452In the circumstances, given the passage of time and lack of evidence  theres  just no 
way that our service  could  reasonably  hold the business at fault.    
The business made the following observations:
It was sorry  that Mr R still felt his money was taken by fraud.
Their HR department is unwilling to release any sensitive documentation in relation to 
the agent assuming hes still alive.
Theres no evidence of it offering Mr R £50 as theres  no reason to.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr R says, Im unable to say that 
the business has done anything wrong.  
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Rs strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided  submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered  
carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus  on what I consider to be 
the central issues, and not in as much  detail, as a discourtesy.  
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr R and the business,  and reach  what  I think  is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
So the key question for me to consider isnt necessarily whether or not the correct people  
were paid as such, its for me to consider whether or not the business has done anything 
wrong. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that it has. 
Even if Mr R believe he is right in his assertions  on balance I dont think  he is  Im unable  
to reach  the same  conclusion without any supporting evidence.  
Given the passage  of time  almost three decades ago  its no surprise that the business 
has no paperwork in relation to the policies. Businesses arent  generally  required to retain 
information indefinitely  and are unlikely to have done so especially in relation to policies that 
been paid out and have  ended. 
On the face of the available evidence, its possible that the policies were  surrendered  and 
the proceeds received by Mr R but hes forgotten   just because  he cant now remember 
Ref: DRN84085453doesnt mean it didnt  happen. Alternatively its also possible that the proceeds were  paid 
into Mr R1s estate  and used to pay the executors fees. 
Im mindful Mr R says that the third party business initially acting as the executor had to 
hand over to him because there  were insufficient funds to pay for its fees. Whilst  its not clear  
when this handover  happened,  its possible that Mr R was acting as the executor for his 
fathers estate, for the period that Im concerned with. I note he was also the sole beneficiary 
of the two policies held in his life. 
I note what the adjudicator says about  the documents necessary to make a claim, and that it 
could be made by the executor or beneficiary.  I note after the handover  from the initial 
executor Mr R was both. In other words he was acting as both executor of his fathers estate 
and beneficiary  of the two policies. He was therefore  twice  as easily able to surrender these 
policies and receive the proceeds into the estate, or to him personally.  Memories fade over 
time, its possible  Mr R had received  the funds but has just forgotten over time. 
In the circumstances I cant blame the business for not having more  information, as old 
ledgers showing  payments  made  dont usually  contain any more  information and theyre not 
required to. Im unable  to hold the business responsible just because it cant now produce  
the original claim documents 29/30  years  on.    
Im mindful of what Mr R says about  a potential fraud. But despite what he says Ive seen no 
evidence that this was likely to be the case.  
I know Mr R says he was told that hed been paid £50 but Ive not seen any evidence of this. 
In the circumstances Im unable to ask the business to pay this amount. Regardless  of what  I 
say the business is of course free to pay this amount if it chooses  to. 
I appreciate Mr R will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what he wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate his 
frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mr R 
what he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8408545