K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1996. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M 
and I wanted to explain my reasoning in more  detail. 
Mr and Mrs M have  said they were made to feel like they had to take the PPI policy  
alongside their mortgage. Theyve said that they wouldnt have chosen to take the policy as 
they had sufficient sick pay and savings available  to them. YBS has said it wasnt  a condition 
of the mortgage  for Mr and Mrs M to take PPI. Its also provided  a number of documents  
from the time of the sale. Where theres  a disagreement over what  happened,  I have to 
consider everything  available to me to determine what  I think is more likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. 
Its not possible for me to know exactly what was said during the meeting when the PPI was 
sold. Looking at the mortgage  application form, I can see there was a separate  section about 
PPI that said YBS strongly recommends you take out this cover . In my opinion, the wording 
suggests this was an optional product that they didnt have to take.  In addition, there was no 
space on the mortgage application itself to apply for the PPI; so I think it was clear  that they 
were separate products.  
Mr and Mrs M then completed a separate PPI application form in which they requested  PPI 
to cover Mr M only.  They selected the level of cover they wanted, what  monthly benefit they 
needed as well as the benefit  and excess period. On balance, I think  it was clear Mr and  
Mrs M didnt  have the complete the separate  PPI form if they didnt want  the cover. Having 
considered everything  available  to me, Ive seen nothing that suggests Mr and Mrs M were  
led to believe they had to take out the PPI alongside  the mortgage.
YBS didnt make a personal recommendation for the PPI based on Mr Ms individual  
circumstances. Because  of this, YBS didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information  they needed to decide  if it was right for 
them. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted  this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  
Ref: DRN80401672I appreciate both Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt need  the cover  as they were salaried 
workers with good sick pay and savings. But being a salaried worker doesnt  automatically 
mean the policy wasnt right for Mr M. Ive mainly  considered Mr Ms sick pay and savings  
seeing as he was the insured party under the policy. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs M are no longer able to remember or provide  information about 
the level of sick pay or savings available to Mr M at the time. This isnt surprising considering 
the sale was around  23 years ago. Because of this, I cant  safely say the policy  wouldnt 
have been of any use to Mr M. The policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim if 
Mr M was too ill to work,  had an accident or wad made redundant. And that wouldve been in 
addition to any sick pay Mr M was entitled to. As Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  was a financial 
commitment secured against  their home, I think its most likely  that they wouldve wanted to 
protect their repayments, given the serious  consequences of defaulting on a debt secured 
against their home. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would  have put them off 
taking out the cover.
Mr and Mrs M have  mentioned that they feel the PPI payment  was hidden within the monthly  
mortgage payment  so they werent fully aware what  they were  paying for. Ive thought  about  
this carefully and considered the information  they were given at the time of the sale. The 
mortgage offer they were sent set out the monthly cost of the PPI. This was an important 
document I wouldve expected them to read in detail. So I think  YBS did clearly set out the 
monthly cost of the policy before they agreed  to take out the mortgage.  And this isnt 
affected by how the monthly payment was then collected after that point.
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN80401673But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8040167