K821x#15complaint
Miss L and Mr H complain Rock Insurance Services Limited mis-sold them  a travel 
insurance policy, leading  to them not having cover for a cancellation claim under their policy.  
background
In June 2018 Miss L and Mr H took out travel insurance through an online comparison 
website. Initially they were going to purchase  a single  trip policy,  for a trip at the end of June. 
But when it came to the payment screen  there  was an option to have an annual  trip instead. 
They took the annual policy.
After taking out the policy but before the trip, Miss L was taken  into hospital and was unfit to 
travel. So she submitted  a claim for cancellation under her insurance  policy.  The claim was 
declined by the insurer because under the annual  trip policy,  cover  didnt start until the date 
of the first trip. And as Miss L fell ill before  the trip and she never went  on it, there was no 
cover under the policy.
Miss L and Mr H complained to Rock Insurance. They said theyd  read the terms for the 
single trip policy, and it had explained cover would start on the day the policy was taken out. 
She said Rock Insurance hadnt  made it clear that the policy  terms were  different for an 
annual policy, or that she could  have  selected  the cover to start earlier for the annual  policy.  
So she said the policy had been mis-sold. Rock insurance didnt agree, so they brought the 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  think Rock  Insurance had done enough to bring the cancellation cover  
to Miss L and Mr Hs attention when they bought the policy.  She was satisfied that, had Rock 
Insurance sufficiently  brought this to Miss L and Mr Hs attention, theyd have ensured they 
had cancellation  cover from the date the policy was taken out. So she thought Rock 
Insurance should cover the claim as if it were the insurer.  
Rock insurance didnt agree, but didnt  provide  any reasons. So the matter  has come to me 
to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below.
When selling  insurance on a non-advised basis, as it did in this case,  Rock  Insurance was 
required to give information that was clear,  fair and not misleading  at the point of sale. This 
is so that Miss L and Mr H could  have made  an informed choice about whether the policy  
was suitable for them.  Im not satisfied Rock  Insurance did this.
Miss L and Mr H were initially going to buy a single trip policy.  They  say they were  aware  
that for this policy, the insurance cover  would start from the day they bought it, which  was 
around a week before  they were due to start their trip.
When Miss L and Mr H progressed through the online sale,  they were shown the cost saving 
option of taking out an annual multi-trip policy. So they decided to take out this policy  
instead.
Ref: DRN87371972Rock insurance has said Miss L and Mr H could  have checked the policy wording for this 
type of policy before  purchasing it. But I think its reasonable Miss H and Mr L didnt do this, 
theyd already completed most of their details with an immediate start date. And the 
summary table for the benefits  showed  they were  the same  for a single trip or an annual 
one. So I dont think Miss L and Mr H would have seen anything  on that screen that alerted 
them to the fact they may need to read the policy documents to be sure of their level of 
cover.
I think the difference in cancellation terms for a single trip versus  an annual  trip is a 
significant difference, given that the standard annual cover wouldnt provide cover  if the first 
trip under the policy was cancelled. So I think Rock insurance should have done more  to 
bring it to Miss L and Mr Hs attention before they purchased it.
Based on what Ive seen  Im satisfied that had Miss L and Mr H known they didnt have 
cancellation cover  under the annual trip policy, theyd have either selected for their policy 
term to start earlier. Or theyd have opted to stick with the single trip policy,  to ensure they 
could benefit from cancellation cover.
So I think Rock Insurances  failure  to highlight this has prejudiced Miss L and Mr Hs 
position. As a result  of Rock Insurances action they were unable to claim under their 
insurance policy. So I consider it fair and reasonable in the circumstances  for them  to act as 
the insurer and deal with the claim,  in line with the remaining  terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I require Rock Insurance Services  Limited to deal with Miss L and   
Mr Hs claim for cancellation in line with the remaining terms and conditions of their policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8737197