K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  that the change Lloyds Bank PLC made to the way they charge for her 
overdrafts is unfair. Miss G says they didnt treat her fairly when she was in financial difficulty  
and supressed the fees without asking her. 
background 
Miss G had two overdrafts with Lloyds,  in total having a £1700 limit and making significant 
use of the facility most months. 
Lloyds changed  the way they charge for overdrafts  in November 2017. Rather than charging 
usage fees and interest  they switched  to a daily charge of 1p per £7 of balance used. This 
resulted in Miss G paying more for her overdraft than she had before  about £60 a month  
instead of £30.  
Miss G complained to Lloyds that they didnt help when she was in financial difficulty  and 
froze charges in January 2018  without  her agreement. Lloyds said they completed  a 
financial assessment  with Ms G during the phone call and as she had no current  income 
informed her that theyd  need to put her through to their collections department  to discuss  a 
repayment plan.  Later  that day they suppressed overdraft charges until the 31 January 2018. 
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Gs concerns. She concluded that:
-Lloyds acted  fairly when  stopping  Miss Gs overdraft fees
-They should have been  more supportive and pay Miss G £100 in recognition  of that
Lloyds accepted our investigators assessment. Miss G didnt accept the assessment  and said:
-£100 isnt satisfactory  she didnt receive adequate customer service from Lloyds
-She told them not to take any action, but instead  they froze her charges for one month 
without her agreement
-This caused  her great distress
At the end of January  2018 Miss G paid back her overdrafts in full. 
As Miss G didnt agree  with our investigators assessment its been passed to me for a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I broadly agree with the investigator.  
Miss G believes the changes that Lloyds have made to her overdraft charges are unfair. Its 
not for me to make a general finding  on whether  the term Lloyds relied on is or isnt fair. A 
finding like this would impact on people who dont have a complaint with us, some  of whom 
may be happy with thats happened. What I need to decide is whether Lloyds treated Mrs P 
fairly and reasonably. And this does mean  considering the fairness  of the term in so far as it 
affects her personally, taking into account the law.  
Ref: DRN82515712The law that applies here is the Consumer Rights Act 2015  which says an unfair  term 
isnt binding on the consumer. The Act says that a term allowing a business to change  a 
contract unilaterally without giving  a valid reason in the contract is likely to be unfair.  But that 
doesnt include a term allowing  a change in charges for financial services,  providing the 
consumer must be told about  it at the earliest opportunity, and can dissolve the contract. 
Did the bank tell Miss G about the change?
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Miss G account at the time Lloyds made  the 
change  November  2017. The term that applies  is below. 
13. How and when  will we tell you about changes and what  are your rights?
13.3.  all changes apart from changes to interest rates or the fees charged which favour 
you  at least 2 months before. 
Miss G is being charged higher overdraft fees so I dont think the change  favoured her  so 
as per the terms and conditions of her account  Lloyds  needed  to give her 2 months notice.
Ive considered whether Lloyds followed their terms and conditions.  And in doing so I think  
Miss G was given enough notice about the change before it happened. Ive seen evidence 
from Lloyds case management systems  which show Mrs P was sent a letter  in July 2017 
informing her of what was going to happen. This was more  than two months before the 
change took effect.  I understand that Miss G doesnt  dispute receiving this notification. 
Can Miss G afford the new charges and did Lloyds  offer sufficient support?
Ive listened to the call that Miss G had with Lloyds in January 2018. Im satisfied Lloyds 
could have been more supportive  during the call they had with Miss G regarding  her advised 
financial difficulties. Lloyds have  also accepted  this and agreed to pay Miss G £100. I think  
this is fair. 
Ive thought about whether Miss G could afford the new charges and whether Lloyds 
engaged with her to explore potential  options. During her phone call with Lloyds Miss G says 
shes recently lost her employment but has been  able to pay her bills up to that point  from 
her last salary. Although she says shes in financial difficulty, once Lloyds raise the 
possibility of an impact on her credit file Miss G says shell  pay back  the overdrafts in full. 
Im satisfied that its more  likely than not Miss G was able to afford the new overdraft charges. 
Miss G is unhappy that Lloyds suppressed  her charges until the end of January, without 
consulting her. I dont  think  this was unreasonable of Lloyds, when Miss G informed  them 
she was suffering from Financial difficulty.  
Could Miss G dissolve her contract  with the bank?
Dissolving the contract  here means  closing the current account. Miss G was able to do that 
at any time  in the sense that the account terms didnt prevent her from doing  that or 
require her, for example,  to pay a fee to do so. But I need to consider whether it was 
practical for Miss G, given that shed  need  to make  arrangements to repay her overdraft. 
Ref: DRN82515713Miss G first made contact  with Lloyds to advise  them of her financial difficulty  in January 
2018 - at which point  she informed  the bank that she didnt have any current income. But, 
after being  told shed  be put through to collections,  Miss G told the advisor  shed find the 
money and pay off the overdrafts. Miss G then cleared both overdrafts at the end of January. 
So Im satisfied Miss G was in a position  to dissolve  her contract with the bank. 
In conclusion I dont  think the changes were  unfair  as Miss G was able to avoid the impact of 
the charges, as demonstrated by her clearing both overdrafts with Lloyds in January 2018. I 
think £100 compensation for the poor support from Lloyds during the phone  call is fair. 
my final decision
I direct  Lloyds  Bank PLC to:
-Pay Miss G £100 for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019. 
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8251571