K820x#14complaint
Mr C acquired  a new car in January 2019,  by means  of a hire purchase agreement with FCA 
Automotive Services UK Ltd. He terminated  this agreement in February. He complains  that 
the termination payment required by FCA was excessive, because too much interest was 
charged. He wants  the extra interest  charged  to be refunded.
 
background
About a month  after Mr C acquired his car, he wanted to change  its registered keeper. FCA 
told him that this was not possible within the structure of the agreement into which he had 
entered. He then asked to terminate his agreement,  by paying the full settlement amount 
required. 
Mr C calculated the interest he thought should be charged, by reference to the Annual 
Percentage Rate (APR) figure contained in the hire purchase quotation he received from 
FCA, which he accepted.  He deducted from this calculated  figure  the one monthly payment 
(required under his agreement) he had already made, leading him to his final figure  of a little 
over £14,100.   
FCA calculated its final figure, which was about £120 more than Mr Cs figure. Mr C made 
the required payment,  but he also made  a formal complaint to FCA. It responded saying:
The calculation method used by Mr C was only applicable to consumers wishing to 
exercise their right to withdraw from their agreements within the first 14 days
For consumers like Mr C who wish to end their agreement after 14 days, the interest 
charge would be calculated in line with the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)
This was how it had calculated its final figure, and so it was unable  to uphold his 
complaint
Mr C then referred his complaint to us. Our adjudicator did not think it should be upheld, and 
drew Mr Cs attention to the section of his agreement relating to early  repayment. Our 
adjudicator said that this section (which referred to the CCA) applied  in Mr Cs 
circumstances.  
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicator. And so this complaint was referred for review  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar  reasons.
On the one hand, the section of Mr Cs agreement highlighted  by our adjudicator clearly sets 
out the way in which early repayment  figures are calculated. This section is quite 
prominently placed on the second of a three-page  agreement document,  signed 
(electronically) by Mr C. 
FCA told us that Mr C was also provided  with the appropriate pre-contract information.  And 
Mr C has not indicated  that he has been  unable  to access this or other information.
Ref: DRN89373372And so I have reviewed  all the information Mr C should have received about his agreement. 
None of this information suggests that APR could be used to calculate early  repayment 
figures. Although  Mr Cs quotation  does say:
If you have any questions  about the credit  agreement, or if you want  further 
information and explanation, please  ask your dealer.
On the other hand, Mr C says his agreement clearly  states the interest  rate it uses  (the APR 
figure). And he argues  that to charge interest  in any other way would be misleading and 
fraudulent.
Mr C used his agreements APR figure  to calculate interest for the number of days  between  
the start and end of his agreement. A working definition of APR is:
The approximate yearly cost of borrowing money  from a financial institution. It 
reflects the interest rate and/or fees,  assessed  in conjunction with your balance  and 
serves as a basis for choosing between similar financial products .
It is clear from this definition that the use of APR for the purpose intended by Mr C would not 
be appropriate. And my conclusion is that I cannot either agree with Mr Cs argument, or find 
any reason to support the method of calculation he used. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8937337