K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2001. Miss W says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Miss W that she had a choice about it. 
Miss W says she was told she didnt have a choice about it and had to take it in order to get 
the card. But she hasnt  been able to give us much other detail about what happened  or was 
said at the sale.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Miss Ws application  form for the credit card.  This included a 
box to show whether she wanted  the PPI. And there is a cross in the box. The cross appears 
to be pre-printed, but there are other details on the form which  are also pre-printed, which 
suggests there was a conversation between  Miss W and Halifax  before the form was printed 
out.
Based on what I understand about  Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its likely that 
PPI was mentioned  during this conversation. And, based on the evidence I have, I think  its 
likely that Halifax made it clear to Miss W that she had a choice about it. So I think  Miss W 
chose to take the PPI, knowing she didnt have to.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Miss W, so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
her. And, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was.
Miss W hasnt been able to tell us what sick pay shed  have  received from her employer at 
the time.  But I think its likely the PPI couldve  paid out for longer than the sick pay shed 
have been entitled to. And it wouldve meant she didnt  need to rely on any savings she had 
to make her repayments if she wasnt earning.
Miss W has also said she had other insurance  to cover her. But the paperwork shes  sent us 
shows this was an accidental death  policy, which provides different cover to the PPI.
Miss W has said she had a medical condition at the time. But, from what  shes said,  it 
doesnt sound like knowing  this condition wouldnt have been  covered by the PPI wouldve 
affected her decision on whether  to take it. So I still think the PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, for the same reasons I think it was right for her, it seems  like the PPI 
would have been useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Miss W off taking  it out.
Ref: DRN83519382Miss W has also said shes had other PPI complaints with Halifax  upheld.  But the Financial 
Ombudsman Service looks  at each complaint on its individual  circumstances.  And, as Ive 
explained above, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say the PPI was mis-sold 
here.
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Miss W paid for the PPI. But Halifax  has 
already offered to give Miss W back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it needs to do 
anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Miss W now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8351938