K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained about Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros decision to 
decline her claim  for loss of rent under her property insurance policy after there was an 
escape of water at the flat which she let out. Mrs B is represented in her complaint by her 
husband, Mr B.
background
Mrs B owned the leasehold on a one-bedroom flat which  she let out.
In February 2017,  Mrs B became aware of a problem  with damp which  required 
investigation.
In March 2017, Mrs B served notice on the propertys  tenants. She says this was because it 
seemed likely the investigation would  involve significant disruption.
The tenants refused to move out and so Mrs B eventually obtained a court  order which 
resulted in the tenants moving out in July 2017.
Mrs B arranged for a plumber to attend  the property who found  that the problem was a leak 
from an underfloor pipe.  Mrs B arranged for the pipe to be fixed.  She made a claim for the 
cost of repairing  the damage  caused by the leak. She also claimed for the loss of rent which  
she said she had suffered.
Ocaso eventually  agreed to accept the claim for the damage caused  by the leak.  However, it 
didnt accept the claim for the loss of rent because it considered that the damage hadnt  
rendered the property uninhabitable.  It also noted  that the property was unoccupied at the 
time of the claim.
Mrs B complained to Ocaso about its decision. She said that because all the flooring in the 
living room  needed  to be removed to locate  the leak, it would have been impractical for the 
tenants to remain  there  during this exercise and throughout the repair  period.
Ocaso wouldnt change  its decision.  Mrs B therefore  referred  her complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered  that 
the damage from the leak hadnt rendered the property  uninhabitable  and the tenants hadnt 
chosen to vacate the property because of this damage. He acknowledged that while the 
necessary repairs were being carried  out, the property may have been uninhabitable but by 
that time the tenants had been evicted and there was no formal  agreement for new tenants 
to move in. He therefore considered there was no loss of rent for Ocaso to cover.
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. She said that to carry out the investigations,  
everything in the living  room  would have had to have been removed to the bedroom  which  
was already full of furniture. She said it would  have been impossible for the tenants to carry 
on living in the property in these circumstances  and it was because  of this, and the 
uncooperative actions of the tenants,  that she was eventually forced to evict them.  She 
therefore considered  that she should  be compensated under the policy  for loss of rent.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN82331032my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy provides cover for loss or damage  caused by certain specified perils. These perils 
include the escape of water.
The policy also states:
If the buildings cannot be lived in because of damage by any of the [specified perils], or if 
the buildings  cannot be lived in because of damage caused to nearby  property  by any of the 
[specified perils] we will pay   The rent or maintenance charges you would have received 
but have lost including ground  rent.
Mrs B says she received  a letter from the tenants  in February 2017 drawing attention to the 
problem of damp in the property and threatening legal action if this was not addressed. 
Mrs B say she tried to arrange an inspection of the property  but that the tenants refused 
entry to the managing agent and engineers. She explains  that in March 2017 she therefore 
decided the only way to gain entry and carry  out an inspection was to evict the tenants. The 
tenants were resistant to this process  and so it wasnt  until July 2017  that the eviction was 
achieved.
Once the eviction had taken place, Mrs B arranged  for plumbers to attend the property. They  
dealt with the leak by taking up a section of concrete flooring in the living room, removing the 
faulty pipes and re-routing some of the pipework.
The leak had caused damage to the walls and flooring in the living  room  and hallway. Ocaso 
agreed to cover the cost of repairing this.
After taking everything into account, I consider  it was reasonable for Ocaso to decline the 
claim for loss of rent. The damage from the leak did not, in itself, render the property 
uninhabitable. The kitchen and bathroom  were  unaffected by it. The tenants remained living  
in the property and apparently didnt want to leave.  I appreciate that Mrs B may have felt she 
had no option  but to evict the tenants but at the time she sought eviction she wouldnt have 
known the exact cause  of the damp issue or what repair work might be necessary. I consider 
that the eviction  was only indirectly related to the escape of water;  the direct cause appears  
to have been the tenants refusal to allow inspections  to take place.
As the investigator  has noted, it appears that for a short time while the insured repair work 
was being carried  out, the property might have been regarded as uninhabitable.  But by this 
time, the property was unoccupied in any case  and there was no prospective tenant  lined up. 
In view of this, I cant reasonably say that if it werent for the damage caused  by the escape 
of water,  Mrs B would  have been in receipt of rent during this period.
In view of the above, while I appreciate Mrs Bs disappointment, I consider it was reasonable 
for Ocaso  to decline their claim  for loss of rent.
Ref: DRN82331033my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf  of 
Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2021.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8233103