K821x#15Complaint
Mr C complains Santander  UK Plc was unhelpful when he tried to use his new credit  card 
whilst abroad. 
Background
Mr C got a Santander credit card to use on an overseas trip that hed been planning for 
some time. Unfortunately, he lost his PIN before going abroad. So, he asked Santander to 
send him a replacement  PIN which it did. Santander explained in the letter  accompanying 
the PIN that Mr C would need to unlock  the PIN in a UK ATM  before hed be able to use his 
card normally. Mr C accepts that he didnt do this before  going  abroad. 
Mr C tried to use his card once he was abroad   to make a chip and PIN payment  but it 
didnt work.  So, he called  Santander for help. He says Santander  suggested he could try and 
unlock his card in a local ATM, but there was nothing else it could do. Mr C says he used  his 
card in a local ATM  and was able to withdraw  cash.  So, he thought the card was working 
normally. He tried his card again  to make the chip and PIN payment hed tried earlier   but 
it didnt work. He says this was embarrassing and distressing, and that he had to borrow 
money from a friend to make the payment  hed planned to use his credit  card to make.
Mr C contacted Santander after returning to the UK to ask if he should  have been able to 
use his card to withdraw cash. Santander told him that if the PIN was locked,  he shouldnt 
have been able to withdraw cash. Santander  now accepts that this information was incorrect. 
Mr C complained to Santander  about  the problems hed had using his credit  card abroad.
Santander investigated Mr Cs complaint  but didnt uphold it. Santander said that he had 
problems using his card because hed not unlocked the PIN and this could only be done in a 
UK ATM. Mr C was unhappy about Santanders response and complained to us.
Our investigator explained why Mr Cs card hadnt worked and didnt think  Santander had 
done anything  wrong. They did, however, think that Santander should compensate  Mr C for 
the incorrect information hed been  given after he returned to the UK. Santander offered £50 
which our investigator thought was fair and reasonable. Mr C was still unhappy. He said that 
his card should have  been locked for all transactions, not some,  and that this was a security 
flaw. He also thought that Santanders  literature was misleading, and he was still unhappy  
about the fact that hed had to borrow  from a friend  rather  than paying on his credit  card.    
So, he asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN88089702Mr C had almost  two months to unlock  his PIN before he went  abroad.  The letter  Santander 
sent with the replacement  PIN explained what  he needed to do. In short,  Mr C had plenty  of 
time to unlock his PIN. Had he done  so, he wouldnt have had any problems making the 
payment he wanted  to. Its unfortunate Mr C didnt  unlock  his PIN  I accept that it was very 
embarrassing and distressing  for Mr C when his card didnt work given the purpose  for which  
hed gone abroad  but I dont think its fair to say Santander should be responsible. 
I can see why Mr C would have assumed the PIN was locked for all transactions  and was 
confused when he was able to withdraw  cash from an ATM. However, as previously 
explained by our investigator, the card functions  differently  for cash withdrawals and, in this 
instance, the magnetic strip of the card was read by the ATM allowing Mr C to make a cash  
withdrawal. 
I understand that Mr C is concerned that this is a security risk for customers and believes 
that Santanders literature is misleading  in this regard. The letter  provided  with the 
replacement PIN from Santander  does not indicate  that the card will be blocked  for all 
transactions but instead states that the PIN needs to be unlocked for the customer  to be able 
to carry on using their card as normal. It also states  that the PIN must be unlocked in a UK 
ATM. I dont agree that this information is misleading, and I think the instructions  for what  
needs to be done to unlock the PIN are clear.
Mr C has told us that he had to borrow £2,000 from a friend to make the payment. The friend  
is unwilling to accept  a repayment plan and Mr C argues  that if hed been able to make the 
payment with his credit  card then he could have  made the repayments in instalments rather 
than in a lump sum. So, Mr C would  like Santander to transfer the £2,000 to this individual 
and allow  him to continue making repayments  as he would have done had he made  the 
payment on his card.
I dont think it would  be fair for me to ask Santander to do this for several reasons. 
Santander told Mr C what he needed  to do to ensure he could  use the card and he received  
this information  several  weeks before he needed to travel. I think  it is reasonable to expect 
that Mr C should  have checked the card was working before travelling if he was depending 
on being able to use it. 
Had Mr C followed  the instructions provided with the PIN then he would not have  ended  up 
in a position where he needed to ask for financial assistance from a friend.  Im therefore 
unable to find Santander responsible for this situation and will not be asking them to do 
anything further  in this regard. 
Nevertheless, and as agreed  by Santander, Mr C was given incorrect  information  after he 
returned to the UK. Santander  has offered to pay Mr C £50 in recognition  of the frustration 
caused to him as a result  of the incorrect information being provided to him. I think this is a 
fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
My Final  Decision 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I partly  uphold Mr Cs complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc 
to pay £50 to Mr C if they havent  done so already. 
Ref: DRN88089703Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8808970