K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that a car that he paid for using  a fixed sum loan agreement  with Santander 
Consumer UK plc, trading as Santander  Consumer Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr S used a fixed sum loan agreement with Santander Consumer Finance that he signed  in 
October 2017 to pay for a used  car. He had some issues with the car and complained  to 
Santander Consumer  Finance about an issue with its exhaust  gas recirculation valve  in 
January 2019.  The dealer had previously  replaced that valve  so Santander  Consumer 
Finance arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert the following month. 
The experts report said that it was unable to reproduce  any of the reported faults so 
Santander Consumer  Finance said that it was unable to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. He wasnt  
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that, whilst  there had been  a breach of contract, it had been  remedied and Santander  
Consumer Finance wasnt required to take any further action.
Mr S has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
the car is not fault free  it judders and has a lighting issue;
those issues were  present at the time of the independent inspection but are 
intermittent so may not have occurred during the test drive;
he purchased an additional  warranty which has covered the repairs since 
October 2018;
his costs are about £775 (£599 plus interest for the extended warranty,  £79.99 for a 
carbon clean and £48 for wheel alignment due to juddering);
he expects Santander Consumer Finance to pay for any repairs  that occur after the 
warranty has expired  that are the same  as those already repaired (diesel  particulate  
filters, pressure sensors, glow plugs  and exhaust  gas recirculation valves) - but as 
the dealer has been afforded the opportunity to rectify the issues  on more than one 
occasion he should be able to reject  the car; and
due to the repeated faults  and loss of confidence  in the car he will be forced to 
voluntarily terminate  the car and suggests that an alternative solution  would  be for 
Santander Consumer  Finance to allow the voluntary  termination  to occur 
immediately.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander Consumer  Finance is jointly liable  for any breach of contract or misrepresentation 
made by the dealer. A breach of contract would include that the car wasnt of satisfactory  
quality when it was supplied to Mr S. Whether  or not it was of satisfactory quality at that time 
will depend  on a number  of factors,  including the age and mileage of the car and the price 
that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to him was about  three  years  old, had been 
driven for 48,014 miles and had a price of £11,300. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability 
Ref: DRN81169512which means that the components within the car must be durable  and last a reasonable 
amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors.  
There have clearly been some faults with the car. An issue  with the navigation  panel  was 
repaired in November 2017, the glow plug and diesel  particulate filter sensor were replaced 
in January 2018 and in March 2018  the exhaust  gas recirculation value was replaced,  the 
diesel particulate  filter was regenerated  and tyres  were changed and the wheels balanced  to 
deal with the juddering. Those  issues may have been enough to show that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S  but the issues  were dealt with by the 
dealer under  the warranty and I consider that those repairs  were an appropriate remedy  for 
any possible  breach  of contract. 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Mr S had any issues with the car between March  and 
November 2018  when he reported further  issues with it. But that was more than a year after 
hed bought the car and in September 2018  it had passed an MOT test when its mileage was 
recorded as 65,133 miles. So in less than a year after Mr S had bought  it, the car had been 
driven for more than 17,000 miles.
Mr S complained to Santander Consumer Finance about issues with the car in January 2019 
and it arranged for the car to be inspected  by an independent expert in February 2019. The 
experts report concluded:
In our opinion based on the visible evidence, we would conclude that we were  
unable to reproduce  any of the faults  reported.
The vehicle was in my opinion generally  in keeping with its age and recorded mileage 
no defects were noted during the test requiring attention. The vehicles performance,  
breaking, suspension and handling  all appeared to be acceptable  for the make  and 
model. The vehicle  showed no evidence of excessive  noise, excessive  smoke  
emissions or other  defects at the time of our inspection.
Issues have been rectified  on the vehicle prior to our inspection.
The cars mileage was shown in the report as being 70,131 miles. So between September 
2018 and February  2019  the car had been driven for a further 5,000 miles.
Mr S says that the car broke down less than two weeks after the inspection, was recovered 
to the dealer and was repaired under warranty. But in his complaint form to this service  he 
says that the car was fault free when it was returned to him.
I consider that Santander Consumer Finance has responded to Mr Ss complaint fairly  and 
reasonably. He complained to it about fifteen months after hed bought the car and it 
arranged for it to be inspected by an independent  expert. The report  concluded that no faults 
could be reproduced.  Issues with the car have been  repaired by the dealer under warranty 
and the car has been driven  for more than 22,000  miles since he bought it. Im not 
persuaded that it would  now be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander  Consumer 
Finance to reimburse Mr S for any of the costs that hes incurred in connection  with the car 
or to allow him to reject it.
Mr S says that he will voluntarily terminate the car. But his agreement with Santander  
Consumer Finance is a loan agreement that he used to buy the car. So he owns the car and 
I dont consider that he has any right to terminate the agreement until hes repaid the loan.
Ref: DRN81169513my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8116951