K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire)  - mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI). 
background
In 1996, PPI was added to a mortgage Mr and Mrs N were taking out. The policy was in     
Mr Ns sole name. It was free for the first six months, after which  they paid £28.41  a month 
for it. But Mr and Mrs N feel that this policy was mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs N have complained about policies sold in 1992 and 2009 as well  but Im only 
looking at the sale in 1996.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ns case.
After doing that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs N and Yorkshire  agree  the policy was sold during a meeting.  During  that 
meeting, Yorkshire  shouldve taken reasonable steps to make  Mr and Mrs N aware  they had 
a choice in buying the policy.  Mr  and Mrs N say they were  told they had to have the PPI in 
order to get the mortgage. 
Yorkshire has provided a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ns mortgage documents   including  the PPI 
application form. The PPI form contains options for the type of cover  an applicant wants  and 
Mr and Mrs N have chosen  the option  that best suited their circumstances at the time and 
have signed the form. There is nothing to suggest  the PPI was compulsory and from what  
we know about  how Yorkshire sold these policies  at the time  it usually gave customers the 
option. 
So I think its likely Yorkshire made it clear that Mr and Mrs N didnt have to take out the PPI 
and they choose to take it  although I can understand why they cant remember  this. 
Mr and Mrs N say Yorkshire recommended  they take the PPI. Based on my experience  of 
how Yorkshire usually  sold policies at the time,  I think  its possible the salesperson explained 
the benefits of taking  PPI and the possible  consequences if they didnt. But I dont think  its 
likely it gave them specific advice about  whether to buy the policy. So this means it didnt 
have to check if the PPI was suitable  for them. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs N 
got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Yorkshire  gave Mr and 
Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But based on what  Ive seen of   
Mr Ns circumstances at the time,  it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. Such  as unusual working patterns or existing 
medical conditions.
Ref: DRN85419552Mr N says he would have  had some sick pay benefits from his employer but he cant 
remember how much. The policy wouldve paid out alongside any employee benefits he was 
entitled to. It wouldve also covered  him if he became unemployed.
Mr and Mrs N were borrowing funds against  a large and long term financial commitment,  
which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their mortgage 
repayments would be made if Mr N became too unwell to work or was made redundant. And 
theyve said they didnt have any savings or other means they could have  relied on. So it 
looks like the policy would  have  been useful for them if something went  wrong.
From everything Ive been given, looks like the policy  was affordable  for them.  And the policy  
could have been cancelled at any time had their needs changed. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs N have lost out by anything  Yorkshire  might  have done 
wrong. Which means Yorkshire doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs N.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs N paid on their PPI  and whether 
Yorkshire treated  them unfairly. 
Yorkshire has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ns PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Yorkshire  has  been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ns commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Yorkshire  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs N back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8541955