K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains that Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
1 October 2019, an extract  of which  is attached and forms part of this final decision. So, I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  that Sunny  shouldnt have given Mrs W 
loans six to 11 and what I thought it should do to put matters right. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs W said that she didnt have anything  further to add. Sunny responded at some length. It 
said, in summary:
Mrs W repaid  each  loan on time.  
The highest loan was for £150.
Mrs W could  afford  to repay the loans, even when she was repaying concurrent  
loans.
Mrs W contacted  it about financial difficulty after the last loan.  
I havent concluded that its affordability calculation was inadequate or that Mrs Ws 
declared disposable income was insufficient  to make the repayments.  
It didnt rely solely on what Mrs W said about  her income and expenditure as it used 
credit reference agency data too.
Theres an implication that Ive seen something to suggest  that if it had verified 
Mrs Ws income and expenditure from loan six, it would  have  concluded that she 
couldnt afford to repay loans six to 11 but theres no indication that the information 
Mrs W provided wasnt accurate.
It doesnt think that Mrs W used its loans to repay its previous loans as the dates 
dont match and by loan six Mrs Ws monthly  disposable income had increased. 
In the absence of indications  of financial hardship, it doesnt think that it should  
change its approach to assessing  applications  after a certain number of loans.
Theres no good reason to give more  importance to the number of loans a customer  
has with them than with other lenders.
It was entitled to restrict creditworthiness to the term of the loan.  
Ref: DRN83720662Too much  weight  has been given to the number of loans. 
Its not the case that the number of loans necessarily impaired Mrs Ws ability  to 
access mainstream credit.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Sunny has said. I remain of the view that it shouldnt have given Mrs W 
loans six to 11. Ill explain why.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I think that theres a point at which  the pattern of 
lending, in itself,  indicated that the lending wasnt sustainable. Im satisfied  that  point is at 
loan six in this case. By then, Mrs W had taken out six loans in almost  seven months  and 
she hadnt yet repaid  loans three,  four and five. 
Sunny doesnt  think that Mrs W used  its loans to repay its previous loans as the dates dont 
match and by loan six Mrs Ws monthly  disposable  income had increased. I dont think  that 
the dates have to match  exactly for an unsustainable pattern of lending  to be established.  In 
this case, by loan six in early December 2017, Mrs W had repaid loans one and two in late 
September 2017 and taken out three  further  loans  loans three, four and five -  that she 
hadnt yet repaid. Mrs Ws income  appeared to stay broadly  the same. Her monthly 
expenditure fluctuated slightly but was broadly  the same except for loans two and three,  
where it reduced. I dont think that alters  the outcome.
I think its likely that a mainstream lender would look at the number of loans here and take a 
negative view. So, I think its fair that all information about loans six to 11 is removed from 
Mrs Ws credit file. 
Considering everything, I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision, my final decision  is that I 
uphold Mrs Ws complaint  in part. I now require Elevate Credit International Limited, trading 
as Sunny to;
refund  all interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans six to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans  taken from loan six onwards means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans six to 11 should be removed from 
Mrs Ws credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN83720663Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83720664extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs W complains  that Elevate Credit International  Limited,  trading  as Sunny, lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Sunny gave Mrs W 11 instalment loans  between April 2017 and June 2018. The loans were
repayable in six, broadly equal, monthly repayments. Mrs W repaid all of the loans.  A
summary of Mrs Ws borrowing with Sunny is set out below:
Mrs W says that she was struggling  to repay the loans. She wants  a refund of some of the
interest she paid.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mrs Ws complaint. She didnt think  that Sunny  acted unfairly in 
giving Mrs W loans one to three but said that Sunny shouldnt have given 
Mrs W loans  four to 11. The adjudicator set out what Sunny should do to put matters right.
Sunny didnt  agree with the adjudicator.  It said, in summary:
It asked Mrs W about  her income and expenses, including any other short-term loans
Mrs W used a very small percentage of her monthly income to repay  the loans.
It permits customers to take up to four loans at any time and it considered  other loans when it 
assessed each loan application.
All of the loan applications would have to meet its eligibility  and lending criteria.
It uses  both information  provided by the customer and credit reference agencies.
It doesnt use bank statements to verify customers information.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice, this 
means that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN83720665    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether 
the loan payments  were affordable on a strict  pounds  and pence calculation.  Of course, the loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could  sustainably make 
their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically follow this is the case. This is because the Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without undue  difficulties  and in particular, 
the customer  should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting other reasonable  
commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a 
lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to 
make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context and 
what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint. I dont think that Sunny was wrong  to give Mrs W loans 
one to five. Ill explain why.
In relation to loans one to four, given  the loan and repayment amounts,  what  was apparent about Mrs 
Ws circumstances  at the time and her history with the lender at that stage, I dont think  it wouldve 
been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mrs W for the amount of information  needed to show the lending  
was unsustainable.  There wasnt anything in the information
Mrs W provided or the information Sunny shouldve been  aware of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate for Sunny  to start verifying what Mrs W was saying  about her finances at that stage.
I think that Sunny should have done more before loan five. I think  that proportionate checks at this 
stage would have included taking steps to verify what Mrs W said. But I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that if it had done  so, it wouldve concluded that Mrs W couldnt  afford to repay  loan five.
Ive noted that when Mrs W took out loans  two to five, she hadnt repaid  earlier loans. By the time she 
asked for loan four she had four loans outstanding. I think this should have caused concerns to 
Sunny that Mrs W was having  problems manging  her money. But in the circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think that means  Sunny shouldnt have agreed to give the loans to Mrs W. At the 
time she asked for loan four she was very close to repaying loans one and two. And the amounts  that 
she borrowed  on each  of the loans, and so the amounts she had to repay, were very modest 
compared to what shed said about her disposable income. I dont think  that Sunny was wrong to give 
Mrs W loans one to five.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Mrs W, with a view to seeing  if 
there was a point at which  Sunny should reasonably  have  seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have 
provided any further  loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ws case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan six. I 
think that by loan six, the pattern of lending in itself indicated  that further lending  was 
unsustainable. Ive noted what Sunny said in response to the adjudicators view but I dont think it 
alters the outcome here. By loan six Mrs W had taken out six loans  in almost seven months. Sunny 
Ref: DRN83720666ought to have  realised it was more likely  than not Mrs W was having  to borrow further to cover the 
hole repaying her previous  loans was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Ws indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mrs W wasnt  making  any real inroads to the amount she owed Sunny. Loan  11 was taken
out 14 months after Mrs Ws first loan. Whilst  the amounts fluctuated,  they didnt significantly and 
consistently reduce over that period.  Mrs W had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a 
debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mrs W lost out because  Sunny  continued to provide borrowing from loan six onwards 
because these  loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive credit  intended for short-term use over an extended period.  The sheer number of 
loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mrs Ws ability to access  mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about loans six to 11. I intend to direct Sunny to put 
things right.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct Sunny to do
refund all interest and charges Mrs W paid on loans six to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans  six to 11 from Mrs Ws credit file;
the number of loans  taken from loan six onwards  means any information  recorded  about 
them is adverse. So all entries about loans six to 11 should be removed  from Mrs Ws 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must  give
Mrs W a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint in part and to direct
Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading  as Sunny, to take the steps set out above.
Ref: DRN8372066