K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  that Studio Retail Limited  failed to make reasonable adjustments  for 
her when she contacted  them due to not being able to make  an upcoming  payment.
background
Miss L has a medical condition and as part of that condition  she finds  it difficult to speak to 
unfamiliar people over the phone.
In March 2019, a few days before  her payment was due, Miss L contacted Studio via an 
online messaging service to let them know she wouldnt be able to make an upcoming 
payment due to an unexpected bill. Studio replied a few days  later to say she had to call the 
credit services department. Miss L told Studio about  her medical  condition  and why she was 
unable to call.
Miss L couldnt get clarification on her missed  payment despite  numerous emails sent to 
Studio  she was also incorrectly  told she was in arrears when the payment hadnt even 
fallen due. She says this caused her distress  and aggravated her medical condition because  
she was unable to get a satisfactory resolution,  so she raised  a complaint with Studio.
Studio considered the complaint and acknowledged  that they provided some  incorrect  
information on the arrears  but said they had responded  appropriately to the enquiry and 
within their timescales. They said the matter  had been passed to the relevant department 
and agreed to a short-term payment  plan,  as well as, placing the account on a 30-day hold.
Studio said they upheld  the complaint and apologised  for the disappointment caused.
Miss L didnt  agree  with the response  and referred the complaint to our service. She said 
although Studio was prepared to place her in a special (Apollo) group they failed to make 
reasonable adjustments needed for her condition and wants  Studio to take responsibility for 
discriminating against her.
Our investigator looked into the case.  He concluded Studios treatment of Miss L had caused 
her significant distress and had aggravated her medical condition. He also said that Studio 
still hadnt improved  or tailored their contact  with Miss L and it was hard to see what  
difference referring Miss L to a specific department made. He recommended  Studio pay 
Miss L £150  in compensation for the inconvenience caused to her. Miss L disagreed with his 
view. She said the investigator hadnt properly  considered her medical  condition  or taken 
into account the lack of reasonable adjustments made by Studio and the affect these had on 
her.
Our investigator considered the additional  points and information  provided by Miss L  he 
also asked Studio for further information.  Studio confirmed  Miss Ls account had been put on 
long term pending  status but said nobody had advised Miss L  they also confirmed no 
payment plan was in place as previously suggested.  After reviewing the new information, the 
investigator still felt the complaint should  be upheld but he thought  the compensation should 
be increased to a total of £700.
Studio disagreed and felt the compensation was too high but offered to pay Miss L £300  
they accepted they could have helped Miss L a little more  but felt they had done  enough  to 
Ref: DRN83317912accommodate her. Miss L still didnt think the compensation  was sufficient and felt a higher 
award would  be a fair amount considering other awards that had been  made  by the service.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said I thought Studio should have done more and didnt act fairly 
and reasonably in this case. I felt an award  of £500 was more reasonable to resolve the 
complaint in the circumstances of this case.  I have summarised my arguments from my 
provisional decision below. 
Miss L said she couldnt use the normal  phone  service with the credit services  department  
because of her medical condition. I have no doubt this is frustrating for her and I understand 
why she feels she was put to a substantial  disadvantage by Studio because of her medical 
condition. She says she asked Studio to contact  her in a different way.
Miss L was managing  her account well prior to the initial contact in March 2019  and from the 
information provided she is now also up to date with the account. So, I appreciate  how this 
would have been distressing and why its likely to have had an impact  on her medical 
condition.
Although Studio agreed to make a compensation award of £300, theyve maintained they 
assisted Miss L reasonably. And it didnt consider that a higher  compensation payment was 
warranted in this case. In a recent response  Studio suggested the steps they took were  
appropriate to accommodate  Miss Ls medical  condition. Studio said whilst  they are sorry 
Miss L has a medical condition, any exasperation of her medical condition  was due to the 
condition itself and not their actions.
But I didnt agree because Miss Ls query  was left unresolved in circumstances  where Studio 
couldve done more  sooner to help her and where I thought, it was reasonable for her to 
have expected to receive  more help. I completely understood why she felt she was treated 
unfairly; and why this left her feeling  humiliated  and anxious.
I said Studio  were aware of Miss Ls medical condition from late March 2019 and although 
they said they have moved  her to a special (Apollo)  group  I couldnt  see that this had made a 
difference to her situation or helped with updates that Studio should have provided to her. 
Studio hadnt  clearly  communicated with Miss L throughout  the complaint  at times they 
said she was in arrears  when she wasnt and then told us there  was a payment plan in place 
for her account which wasnt the case.
Studio admitted Miss L was provided very little information on the management of her 
account or arrears  until August 2019   they said her account was put on long-term hold but 
without notifying  her of any of the implications. It seems the only real steps taken to rectify 
the issues were done once  the complaint had been  raised with our service.
Miss L didnt  think the level of compensation recommended by the investigator was enough  
and felt the investigator hadnt considered the impact on her medical condition sufficiently. 
She provided us with some information  in relation to her medical condition  and although this 
showed how her medical condition  affects her, it didnt show  what  particular impact  the poor 
service Studio provided had on her condition. 
Ref: DRN83317913Miss L has detailed the poor service she said Studio gave her. I therefore  needed  to decide 
what would  be a fair and reasonable  way of putting  things right in this particular complaint. 
Id thought about the impact of what Studio  did wrong  here had on Miss L, and what shes 
told us about this. And I was satisfied Studio caused her considerable inconvenience and 
distress. So taking all of this into account,  I thought it would be fair that Studio pay Miss L 
£500  inclusive of the £300 offered by them for the distress and inconvenience caused  by 
its poor service.
Studio didnt provide any further  information  in response to my provisional  decision. 
Miss L responded  to my provisional decision and provided more information and evidence  
about the complaint. She raised the following:
We havent understood the impact of Studios actions  on her medical condition
The compensation offered had not been  arrived at fairly  by taking into account  the 
effects on her
The medical evidence  provided was not fully considered 
Studio  didnt clear  the arrears they only removed the interest/charges that were 
added to the account 
We didnt consider the phone call made to her home phone  number and that Miss Ls 
phone was still being called by Studio
We hadnt considered  the many other times,  other than in this complaint, when 
Studio had discriminated against  her
Studio  didnt react promptly to stop and assist Miss L when  her account was hacked  
recently
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including everything Miss L has provided 
in response to my provisional decision.   And, Ive thought about all the information on the 
case again. 
Before I explain why, I acknowledge that Miss L has raised a number of points which  Ive 
considered in full. But Ive limited  my decision to what  I consider to be most relevant  in this 
complaint. Having done so, I still think this complaint should be upheld,  for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision  and summarised above. 
Our role is to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide 
that, we have to take a number of things into account including  relevant law and what we 
consider having  been  good industry  practice  at the time. So although its for the Courts to 
say whether or not Studio  has acted unlawfully by breaching the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010  into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Miss L has complained  that Studio has failed to make reasonable adjustments for her. In 
other words, has failed in their duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 
2010. Ive taken the Equality Act 2010 into account   given that its relevant law. From what  
Miss L has told us  which is supported by medical evidence   I think  its likely  a court would  
find that her medical  condition does amount to a disability as defined by the Equality Act 
2010. But Ive ultimately decided this complaint  based on whats  fair and reasonable. If Miss 
Ref: DRN83317914L wants a decision that Studio has breached the Equality Act 2010, then shell need to go to 
Court.
Studio has accepted that it provided Miss L with poor customer service. Miss L doesnt  see it 
that way. She believes that what Studio has done goes beyond poor customer service.  Shes  
felt discriminated against. I can understand why Miss L feels  this way, and I do think  Studio 
hasnt quite grasped how its actions have made Miss L feel.  So  I do think  Studio  should do 
more than it has currently offered to do. I say this because  Studio failed to adjust the way 
they communicated with Miss L throughout the process and often didnt update  her with the 
information that would have been useful for her. I dont  think that was fair and reasonable.
 
Miss L also said Studio didnt clear the arrears  and only cleared the charges. Studio said her 
account was placed on breathing space where  interest and late fees were  suspended. 
Studio said to prevent any further  detriment  to her credit file they had cleared the arrears on 
her account  and I can see a balance adjustment  of £50.39 was made on 7 August 2019  
but this states  the adjustment was in relation to the interest and charges. While I dont think  
Studio cleared the arrears,  I dont think this is something Id reasonably  expect them to do, 
as the arrears are Miss Ls to clear   which she has done. What Id expect  them to do is 
remove any interest/charges in relation  to the payment  which it looks  like they have done.  
In my provisional decision I recommended Studio should pay Miss L £500 for the 
considerable distress  and inconvenience caused. Miss L replied and she felt I hadnt 
considered the impact  of Studios actions on her medical condition and so I hadnt fairly  
arrived at the compensation offered. I thank Miss L for providing the additional information 
on the medical condition and the information  shed  previously provided from her doctor.
Id like to reassure Miss L that I dont doubt what she says about her medical condition and 
the impact it has on her. She also told us her condition was getting better prior to this 
incident. I accept  that the poor service  she received from Studio is likely to have 
detrimentally impacted  her condition.  
The problems on the account started  in March 2019  and it took until August 2019 for there to 
be meaningful  progress. Miss L has provided us with information to show us the medical 
condition she suffered and that she contacted  her doctor in October 2019 due to a flare up. 
But I dont have the medical evidence  to support that what Studio did wrong here caused the 
flare up in the condition or that her condition significantly deteriorated because of the way 
Studio treated her, although I accept its unlikely to have  helped.  
So, considering all the information  I have  I think a fair amount of compensation in the case  
would be for Studio to pay the additional £500  I suggested in my provisional  decision. As Ive 
mentioned Studio would  have known about  Miss Ls medical condition and should have 
acted sooner to help her but they took over five months to do so. Its likely  this delay would 
have had a detrimental impact on her condition and Studio should have been aware of this.     
Miss L has also raised a number of new points, such as more recent phone calls and the 
hacking of her account but these seem  to have occurred after she referred this complaint  to 
our service  so I havent looked into those issues. She will need to first raise  these concerns 
with Studio if she hasnt  done so already, before were able to investigate  those issues.  
Ref: DRN83317915my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Studio  Retail  Limited trading as 
Studio to pay Miss L £500 for the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 November  2020.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8331791