K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained about Avantia Insurance Limited  which sold them a home 
insurance policy. When they made a claim to their insurer, the insurer relied  on a policy limit 
to settle their claim which they hadnt been aware of and they think Avantia should  have told 
them about.
background
Mrs A arranged cover in 2016. She says she called  Avantia to do this but Avantia said it was 
arranged on-line. The policy agreed upon defined contents as, amongst other items, 
jewellery and watches up to £5,000. But Mrs A had also specified three items of jewellery 
and watches worth £5,000 and one worth £3,000.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs A were burgled.  The insurer said that whilst the stolen jewellery,  
excluding specified  items, totalled in excess of £5,000, that was all it would pay for those 
items. It settled the specified items separately  and in addition to the general £5,000 policy 
limit for valuables. Mr and Mrs A complained  and when it wouldnt change  its mind they 
complained to Avantia. They said it hadnt  told them about the policy limit. 
Avantia said the policy was arranged on-line and during  the on-line process the fact of the 
jewellery limit is stated directly under the question which asks for the total value  of contents 
to be covered. Avantia said the limit is also referred  to in the policy  wording, a link to which 
Mr and Mrs A were  provided. Avantia said it was Mr and Mrs As responsibility to make sure 
the cover  met their needs. Mr and Mrs A complained  to us.
Our investigator thought that Mr and Mrs A had been told about the limit. They  disagreed 
and the complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Whilst Mrs A says she called and arranged cover  over the phone, Avantia says this was an 
on-line policy. Its shown  us a screen  shot of its records that show this was put through on 
the internet.  I know Mrs A cant recall which number she called from and, without that, I cant  
expect Avantia to be able to trace any call. Based on the evidence I have it seems most  
likely to me that the policy was arranged on-line.
Avantia didnt advise  Mrs A about the cover she obtained. So, beyond providing policy 
documentation, it didnt  need to make  sure the cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs A. The 
sale though should have  been clear and Mr and Mrs A should have been  given  enough 
information to make an informed choice. However, even if I were to find that Avantia failed 
Mr and Mrs A in some respects,  Id also have to be satisfied that its failure caused them  a 
loss and/or wouldve meant theyd have taken action to avoid a loss. 
   
Avantia has shown us that the limit of £5,000 is flagged  to the applicant when they are asked 
about how much cover  for contents they want to arrange. Directly under the contents 
question, in italics, is the following statement:
Please  note there is a £5,000 limit for valuables such as jewellery and watches.
Ref: DRN80988262Im satisfied that is clear. The statement itself is self-explanatory  and the reader doesnt have 
to access or click on any link to see this notification. And because it is in italics the eye is 
drawn to it even whilst  reading  the question about  what the total value of contents to be 
insured is. 
And Im satisfied that Mrs A did see a direction that was just above the amount of contents  
question which told her: 
If you want  to insurehigh risk items  worth  more than[£1,500]  or you want to insure 
then away from home   youll need  to specify them below  otherwise they wont  be covered.
I say that because Mrs A did specify items to be covered  worth  more than £1,500 including 
three valuable  items at £5,000 each  and one at £3,000. When Mrs A received policy 
documents the specified items were listed but there  was no mention of the overall valuables 
limit. This was mentioned in the policy booklet. The letter Mrs A received gave her a link to 
the policy booklet, but didnt tell her to check it, or highlight that it contained important 
information. Ive seen a more recent letter from Avantia which  does direct the reader to 
check the policy booklet.
Im quite surprised that the web journey allows for items to be specified  that total so much 
more than the valuables limit. But in this case Mrs A hasnt lost out because of this  the 
insurer paid her for each  specified item and then for other jewellery up to the valuables  limit 
of £5,000. It is the non-specified  items,  totalling more  than £5,000, where Mr and Mrs A have 
experienced a short-fall. 
Im also quite surprised  that the policy documentation that Mrs A received didnt highlight the 
need for checking the policy wording. Avantia says, regardless, Mrs A did access  the web 
link in 2016 and could have read the booklet. In contrast, Mrs A says she never had access 
to the full policy booklet. When you follow the link now you can only see the updated terms 
applicable at the last renewal, not the full policy, so I cant be sure what was available to 
Mrs A in 2016. Further, whilst Ive no reason to doubt Avantia in this respect,  Ive no reason 
to doubt Mrs A either.  However, even  taking Mrs As version of events as being correct, Im 
not persuaded that if she had been given access to the policy  booklet, that would have 
changed anything. 
Mrs A was given clear details during the on-line process about the fact of the contents limit 
and Im satisfied she mustve seen this because she did note, just above  that, the direction 
to specify high risk items and did so. I have difficulty then accepting that its most likely that, 
having done and seen  all of that, when Mrs A received the policy documents after the sale, 
and went on-line to check  the policy booklet,  shed have noted  the valuables  limit included 
within the contents definition on page  15, and decided the cover  wasnt suitable  for her.
Im sorry  that Mrs A found herself  without  the necessary cover when she had a loss. But Im 
not persuaded that shortfall resulted from any failure  of Avantia.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Avantia  Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Ref: DRN80988263Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8098826