K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 2007. 
Mr D says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr Ds representatives disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same  
complaint points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
Mr D has said the PPI was just included with his mortgage. But what I have suggests it 
was arranged after his mortgage meeting during a discussion  with a separate adviser.  To 
take the PPI, Mr D also signed a separate PPI application form. I think  the use of a 
separate form wouldve tended to indicate the PPI was separate and that Mr D had a 
separate decision to make about  it. Also, Mr Ds mortgage offer made it clear only 
buildings insurance was compulsory insurance. With all this in mind, I think it likely HSBC 
made it clear Mr D didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
HSBC recommended Mr D the PPI so it had to check the PPI was right for him. And the 
evidence about Mr Ds circumstances at the time shows  the PPI wasnt fundamentally 
wrong or unsuitable  for him. For example, he had limited means to fall back on if he lost 
his job or was too sick to work, so he had a need for the cover, and he was eligible for it.
Also, nothing about Mr Ds employment or occupation wouldve made it difficult  for him to 
claim. And he hasnt  told us of any pre-existing health issues  that couldve affected his 
ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental health or 
back problems.
Ref: DRN88421892Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found he chose to take it - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. It wasnt unsuitable or fundamentally wrong  for him, as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems it wouldve been useful for him if 
something went wrong. Because of this, I dont think Mr D wouldve declined the cover 
had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr D wouldve still taken  PPI. The policy  couldve provided a useful 
benefit at a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  it was sufficiently 
close to what its likely  he thought he was getting. And, in those circumstances, I think he 
wouldve taken the policy in any event.
Mr Ds representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant HSBC should  have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.  But Mr Ds representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr Ds individual  complaint   just that they apply  to all PPI complaints.
Ive thought about these  things and how they might apply in Mr Ds particular case. But these  
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about whats  fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above,  I dont  uphold  this 
complaint. This means HSBC doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr Ds complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8842189