K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance  Company Limiteds  (AAUICL)  
decision to cancel his car insurance policy as it if didnt exist. Hes also unhappy that it 
rejected his claim. 
background
Mr T bought  a car insurance policy through a broker with the underwriter AAUICL  in October  
2016 with a start date of 1 November  2016. He renewed his policy  in 2017 and 2018 with 
AAUICL. 
In November 2018 Mr T reported an incident to AAUICL. Hed collided into a parked car. 
While investigating the claim, AAUICL found  out that Mr T hadnt disclosed his full driving  
history. He had told it about two motor convictions  in 2016. But he hadnt  told it about a third 
 also in 2016  and also before he bought his policy  in October  2016.  
AAUICL said if it had known about the third motor conviction, it wouldnt have offered Mr T a 
policy. So it cancelled Mr Ts policy as if it didnt  exist and backdated this to 1 November 
2016. It refunded  the premiums Mr T paid for the 2016/2017  and 2017/2018  policies. But  
as AAUICL had received  a claim in November 2018,  it told Mr T he needed to continue  to 
pay for this policy until the outcome of the claim had been settled. It said that if the costs of 
the claim exceeded what hed already paid toward  the policy,  it was entitled to recover  the 
remaining costs from him directly. 
AAUICL said its engineer  deemed Mr Ts car a Category B total loss. This means that 
Mr Ts car is not suitable  for repair and only usable parts may be recycled. 
Mr T asked  us to look at his complaint. He was unhappy with the order in which  AAUICL 
communicated with him about this claim  because it confirmed the total loss settlement 
before it decided to void his policy.  He didnt think this was fair. Mr T felt the decision  
AAUICL made was disproportionate to the error he made. He thought  AAUICL should either 
charge him a higher  premium to reflect the additional  motor conviction  or pay a 
proportionate settlement  of his claim. 
Mr T said he believed hed told AAUICL about the third motor conviction  in 2016. He said he 
had other  things going on in his life and this was why he didnt read his renewal documents. 
So Mr T didnt realise he hadnt  disclosed the third conviction. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. AAUICL provided 
evidence to show it wouldnt  have  offered  Mr T a policy if it had known he had three  motor  
convictions in the previous five years. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He obtained a quote online and declared his motoring convictions. He 
believes this shows AAUICL would have  provided  him with a policy in 2018.  He wants to see 
the evidence AAUICL provided us with. 
Our investigator explained that this wasnt something we could do- as a business 
underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive. But AAUICL had shown us that its decision to 
void Mr Ts policy  and how it dealt with the claim  was reasonable. 
Ref: DRN85958472The investigator also explained that the quote Mr T obtained was through the same broker   
but that the broker uses a number of different underwriters. AAUICL   as the underwriter of 
Mr Ts policy since 2016  wouldnt have provided  cover. If Mr T had disclosed his correct 
driving history, AAUICL wouldnt have  insured  him since  2016. 
Mr T didnt  agree. He wants  AAUICL to provide him with proof of its underwriting  criteria for 
2016. If he cant see this, he wants an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
When a customer buys an insurance  policy, the insurer  asks a series  of questions which the 
customer must answer honestly  and to the best of their knowledge. We  and insurers  
refer to the Consumer Insurance (Disclose  and Representations) Act 2012   also known  as 
CIDRA - when we look at these types of complaints. 
CIDRA says that the insurer must ask a clear question.  Insurers decide the premium it will 
charge a customer  or whether it intends to accept the risk of the insurance  depending  on 
their answers. So this is why it is important  that the answer(s) a customer gives  is correct.  
When Mr T applied for his policy via a comparison website in 2016, he was asked the 
following question:
In the last five years have you received any motoring convictions driving licence
endorsements or fixed penalties and/or have you been disqualified  from driving 
(including any pending prosecutions)?
Mr T answered yes and disclosed two motor convictions from 2015 and 2016. However, he 
had a third motor conviction from May 2016   but he didnt tell AAUICL  about this one.
I think Mr T was asked  a clear question which he didnt answer correctly. So I think Mr T 
misrepresented the facts  when he applied for his insurance policy with AAUICL. And when 
Mr T renewed his policy in 2017 and 2018,  he was asked to check his documents again and 
let AAUICL or his broker know if anything wasnt correct.
Where misrepresentation  happens, an insurer can either charge a higher premium to reflect  
the change in risk and backdate the date of the increase. If there  is an open claim, the 
insurer can decide to pay a reduced settlement  to reflect the lower premium  the customer  
paid for cover. 
But  if it wouldnt have  provided a policy at all  then the insurer  can cancel the policy as if it 
didnt exist  and refuse to meet any claim made  under  the policy.  If the misrepresentation 
was deemed to be careless rather than reckless, the insurer should refund  the premiums  
paid under the voided policy(ies). AAUICL refunded the premiums  Mr T paid for his policies  
in 2016 and 2017. I think this was fair and reasonable. There  isnt anything to suggest Mr Ts 
actions were deliberate  or reckless.
Ref: DRN85958473But because AAUICL received a claim in November  2018, this means its obliged  to deal 
with any third party claim under the Road Traffic Act  as the last insurer  for Mr T. This 
means that a third partys insurer can still claim for their losses. And this also means that 
Mr T owes the full years premium   and AAUICL is entitled to pursue Mr T for any additional 
costs as a result of a claim. .AAUICL explained this to Mr T when it made its decision in 
November 2018.  
If no claim is made, then I think it would be reasonable for AAUICL to close the claim and 
provide Mr T with a refund for the 2018/2019  policy. But until the matter is settled, Mr T owes 
AAUICL the premium.
I understand Mr T is unhappy because AAUICL wrote to him to confirm  the total loss 
settlement before it decided to reject  his claim.  But I dont think  AAUICL  did anything wrong 
here. It intended to settle Mr Ts claim and was acting in good  faith.  When  it received Mr Ts 
driving licence   after it sent its total loss settlement offer - it discovered that Mr T hadnt told 
it his full driving history. And so its decision not to meet his claim was made after it confirmed 
the total loss settlement to him. 
Mr T doesnt believe AAUICL  wouldnt  have  offered  him a policy  if it knew  his driving history 
in 2016  or in 2018. But Im satisfied from the evidence AAUICL has provided that its 
decision is fair and reasonable. Because an insurers underwriting criteria is business 
sensitive information,  we cant share  it with Mr T. But it shows that AAUICL wouldnt have 
provided insurance to Mr T if it knew  his full driving history  in 2016, or 2018.  This is Mr T still 
had three  motoring convictions in the past five years when he renewed his policy in 2018. 
A broker sells an insurance policy. But its the underwriter that underwrites the risk. So when 
Mr T obtained a recent quote online, it was through a broker  with access to more than 
AAUICL as a potential  underwriter. From what Mr T has told us, I understand that the 
underwriter for his recent  quote  wasnt AAUICL.
I realise Mr T will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think AAUICL  has acted 
reasonably and in line with the policy. So I dont think it needs to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8595847