K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr L and Mrs F took out a loan secured against  their property with BoS in 2000. At the same  
time they bought a PPI policy which wouldve covered  the repayments on their loan for up to 
12 months at a time if Mr L, whom the policy covered, was made redundant. It wouldve 
covered their loan repayments for up to 60 months at a time if he was too ill to work. It also 
provided life cover.
Mr L and Mrs F say the policy wasnt optional. They say they didnt  need  the policy.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr L and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld. Mr L and Mrs F 
disagree, so the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan agreement Mr L and Mrs F signed. Theres a separate  
section for PPI which makes it very clear the policy is optional. The box to accept the PPI is 
ticked and Mr L and Mrs F have signed the single-page form. So Im satisfied Mr L and Mrs 
F chose to buy the PPI knowing  they didnt have  to.
BoS advised Mr L and Mrs F to buy the policy, so it had an obligation to take steps to make  
sure it was suitable for them.  Looking at their circumstances at the time I think  that it was 
suitable. I say this because:
Mr L was eligible for the policy  and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for him to make a successful  claim, such as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr L had some sick pay from his employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition 
to that and potentially for considerably longer   up to five years at a time;
Mr L hasnt told us of any contractual redundancy pay entitlement. I think  hed have 
been entitled to about three weeks statutory redundancy  pay, given his length  of 
service and his age. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to this and for up to 12 
months at a time,  so I think it offered an additional benefit. As the loan was secured 
against their home I think it was particularly important that Mr L and Mrs F were able 
to meet  the repayments even if Mr L couldnt work;
The cost of the PPI was comparable to other similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible,  as it could be cancelled at any time without a financial 
penalty. I havent seen anything to suggest  Mr L and Mrs F couldnt afford the policy.
Ref: DRN87613732Its possible Mr L and Mrs F didnt  get all the details about the policy  from BoS. But I dont  
think even if theyd fully understood  everything about it theyd have acted differently and not 
bought the policy. I say this because it was suitable  for them  as Ive already described.
So I dont  think Mr L and Mrs F lost out as a result of anything BoS might have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr L and Mrs Fs complaint so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8761373