K822xcomplaint
Mr B has complained about The Royal  London Mutual Insurance Society Limited. Hes 
unhappy that Royal London didnt  advise him of the time it would take to set up a new 
retirement account when  he first enquired  about it, and he also feels  they took too long to set 
it up once he had decided  to proceed. 
background
Mr B held two unit linked pension plans with Royal London with a total value of just over 
£67,000. He contacted Royal London by phone on 8 January 2018 and explained he wanted  
to begin making  withdrawals from the plans. He wanted to take some money in what was 
then the 2017/18 tax year with subsequent withdrawals in 2018/19.
The customer adviser he spoke to explained  this could  be accomplished  by transferring to a 
new Royal London retirement plan, a new account  set up with flexible withdrawals in mind. 
The adviser also explained that before then, Mr B would be sent a Pension Options Pack  so 
that he could make an informed decision.
Mr Bs next contact with Royal London was on 10 March 2018 when he said that he wanted  
to proceed with the new plan and flexible withdrawal. A call was completed  with an adviser  
on 12 March 2018 with appropriate paper work posted out to Mr B by registered post shortly 
after. Royal London  received Mr Bs signed application on 20 March 2018 and sent a further 
letter confirming the Retirement Account was now open. 
Mr B was contacted on 4 April 2018 by Royal London and told that the tax free part of his 
pension should  be paid that same  day, but the taxable withdrawal he wanted wouldnt be 
made until the following tax year 5 April 2017.
Mr B complained to Royal London saying that he had made his intentions  clear in January 
2018, and that Royal  London should  have warned him how long the process  of withdrawal 
might take then.  
An adjudicator looked at this case and didnt agree. He felt that it was Royal Londons 
responsibility to provide  Mr B with an options  pack rather than discuss all eventualities. The 
adjudicator did however  find several  instances  where Mr B had received poor service, and 
although he didnt  think these changed  the outcome, Royal London  agreed  to a payment  of 
£250 for any trouble and upset caused.
Mr B didnt agree with this outcome. He felt that Royal Londons  delay would mean he would 
have to pay extra tax and wanted Royal London to pay this. He said it would have been a 
simple matter for the original adviser to have told him of the relevant timescales. He also 
said that Royal Londons processes were too slow and that it should  not take weeks  to 
complete transactions like this. 
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN82988112I agree  with the adjudicator and with his reasoning. I uphold this complaint in part. I agree 
that there  were some service failures by Royal London but I dont  think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold them responsible for any tax consequences of the taxable withdrawal not 
being made before the end of the tax year.
Its true that when  Mr B spoke with Royal  London  in January 2018 he wasnt  told of the likely 
timescale for arranging  the retirement plan that would allow him to make  these flexible  
withdrawals. But, as the adjudicator has said, the adviser had a duty to make Mr B aware of 
his options. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect the adviser to make  Mr B aware  of 
the timescales for all the options that were available to him. If Mr B had asked a direct 
question about  timing then he may well have been told and acted differently, but he didnt.
After the call Mr B was sent an options pack.  He didnt contact Royal  London with his final choices 
until 10 March 2018. After that the account  was set up in good  time. In a letter  dated 22 March 
Royal London was clear about  timescales, it said the retirement account had been set up and:
It will take approximately  2 weeks for us to receive  the transfer of money for your existing 
pension(s). Once the transfer has taken place, you will receive your payment within 10 to 15 
working days.
Royal London then told Mr B that it was able to process the tax free withdrawal by 4 April but 
the taxable element would not be paid until 15 April as it only made ad hoc payments twice 
per month.
I agree  with the adjudicator, Im not satisfied  that there were delays by Royal London that 
caused the payments to be made later than he wished. By the time Mr B informed Royal 
London of his wishes on 10 March there was always a real risk that matters  would not be 
concluded in the timeframe  he wanted. Royal London didnt mislead him about that. Its letter 
of 22 March was very clear about  timescales.
Royal London did fail to return calls as promised. It also failed to release call recordings  when  
requested. But I think  the payment of £250 is fair compensation for these service  issues.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  Limited should pay 
Mr B £250  for the trouble and upset caused by its service failures.  I make  no further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8298811