K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr B bought the policy in 1996  at the same time as taking out dual credit cards. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
I think Barclaycard made  Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to 
take it. I say this because he did tick the box on his credit card application  form to 
show that he wanted the cover. There was a box directly underneath  that he couldve 
ticked if he didnt want it. So from what Ive seen,  I think  Mr B wouldve realised he 
had a choice.
Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr B says he was 
entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work, and that he had some  
savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Bs employer benefits and 
wouldve been useful  to him if he couldnt  work. And it wouldve meant he could use 
his employer sick pay and savings to cover other expenses.
So I think Mr B wouldve had some  use for the policy, despite his existing 
arrangements.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But its unlikely Mr B would have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ref: DRN82293912my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8229391