K820x#14complaint
T, a charity, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC cancelled its access to the direct debit 
originator service which has caused  it financial issues.
background
T received  a letter from Barclays  saying  it wanted  to discuss  this facility urgently. An officer  
of T spoke to Barclays in February 2018.  The conclusion of the call was that this facility 
would be cancelled. T contacted Barclays about this in September  2018 saying that it 
wanted it to be reinstated.  Barclays said it could not do so as T did not qualify.  It paid it £100  
in compensation  and £224 to cover  postage  costs  for it to contact its members about this.
The investigator did not recommend that it do anything more. She said that T knew that the 
facility had been cancelled. Barclays said it had expired and needed to be reviewed.  She 
thought it unlikely it would have been  renewed. This service was not in a positon to require 
Barclays to offer T something comparable.
T did not agree  and said that Barclays, knowing the effect cancellation would have on the 
income of the charity, still allowed this to happen. It had told T that there might be additional 
charges it if continued.  T maintained that withdrawing a service and not providing an 
alternative was contrary to good  practice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call the officer of T had with Barclays. It is quite clear that the person he 
spoke to at Barclays  did not understand the way this facility operated for the charity. Even 
though T used a third party to collect the direct debits on its behalf, the ability  to do so still 
came from it being an originator.  T did not realise that if this was cancelled the third party 
would not be able to collect the money  for it. And this did not come to light until later in the 
year at the time when T was expecting the one combined payment from that third party 
covering all those  direct  debits.
However, the existing  facility had expired in November 2017 and was subject  to review. The 
person T spoke to at Barclays did say that if T wanted it to be continued  it would need to 
complete further  forms. T no longer met Barclays criteria to be an originator based  on the 
evidence Ive seen.  I accept that having  the facility  might have put it in a better positon to 
argue that it be continued. However, there was no guarantee  of that. I think it most likely that 
Barclays would have  still told T it could not be an originator. Although  T would have had 
more time to make adjustments  for this.
Its a matter for Barclays to make  a commercial decision about what  services to provide to T. 
It did offer T an alternative service: but T said that this would have been £350 more  
expensive per annum  than using the third party. So instead it says it wrote  to the 150 of its 
members involved asking  them to make other arrangements.  It says that the response was 
disappointing and it expects to lose further  of those members.
I understand the issues for T and why it was so unhappy to be given incorrect  information  
from Barclays. Ive explained why I dont think that made a difference  to whether T kept the 
Ref: DRN82060542direct debit origination  facility or not. I agree that T was caused inconvenience.  Barclays has 
paid what I consider to be reasonable overall compensation to reflect that and the need  to 
take action at short notice. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8206054