K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs H complain  about the cash settlement  offered by Royal & Sun Alliance  
Insurance Plc (RSA)  following a claim they made on their buildings  insurance  policy.
background
In August  2018  Mr P and Mrs Hs property suffered an escape  of water, which  caused 
damage to the kitchen.  RSA accepted the claim and asked Mr P and Mrs H to provide a 
quote for the repair works to the kitchen.
Mr P and Mrs H provided a quote for around  £12,600. RSA thought  this seemed high so it 
asked them to provide another quote,  which they did. The second quote was for around 
£14,000. RSA sent one of its contractors to scope  the works. RSAs  contractors  initially 
quoted around  £3,500 to repair or replace any damage. It later increased this to include the 
cost of replacing the cooker damaged by the leak.
Not satisfied that was sufficient to have the works  carried out, Mr P and Mrs H complained. 
They also said there had been unnecessary delays in the claim following the investigations 
into asbestos. RSA didnt agree to increase its cash settlement, it offered to carry out the 
works but Mr P and Mrs H wanted  to use their own contractor. RSA did note there was some 
delay in progressing  the claim, so it offered £100  to recognise the unnecessary  distress  and 
inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt  think RSA had treated Mr P and Mrs H unfairly. She said RSA only 
needed to pay what it would cost them to carry out the works. She compared Mr Ps quote 
against RSAs  scope of work. She thought they covered largely the same things, and the 
main difference was Mr Ps quote included replacement of items  that werent damaged by 
the escape of water.  She also thought  the labour costs were significantly different and it 
hadnt been shown that so much labour was needed.
Mr P and Mrs H didnt  agree. They wanted an expert  to review the schedule of works to 
confirm it could be carried out for £3,500.
As Mr P and Mrs H didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether RSA has made a fair offer based on the damage  that is 
reported. But I cannot give an expert view on whether the work can be carried out for 
£3,500 as Im not a surveyor and its not my role to quantify claims. 
Under Mr P and Mrs Hs insurance  policy, they can ask for a cash settlement  rather  than 
have RSA carry out the works. The policy says it will consider paying  the amount it would 
have paid had it repaired the damage.  
Ref: DRN81036342As Mr P and Mrs H wanted to have their own contractors carry out the work, RSA asked it to 
provide a quote. I think this was reasonable for RSA to do. I accept  it later asked them  to 
provide another quote, and this caused  delays.  I think RSA could have asked for two quotes  
to be provided at the start,  so it could have assessed whether it was willing to pay this in full. 
But RSA has accepted there  were  some delays in the claim and has offered £100 
compensation. And I think thats reasonable given the short  delay this caused.
I think RSA acted reasonably in instructing  its own contractor to carry out its own quote. Ive 
seen the report  of the damage that occurred and the existing condition of the kitchen so I 
think RSA were reasonable in doubting  the work  would cost such  a large amount.
RSA say its contractors could complete the work for around £4,000. The quote Mr P and  
Mrs H have provided is significantly higher than this. Having reviewed the quotes Im 
satisfied that they cover  largely the same things in terms of what needs to be replaced. The 
report from RSAs contractor has broken down all the material  that will be used and the cost 
of each item.  Mr P and Mrs Hs quote doesnt  do that. It simply says the materials will cost 
around £4,000  and the labour would be around £7,800. 
RSA did speak to the contractor  who provided  the quote  to get a further breakdown.  The 
notes on RSAs file suggest he wasnt able to break  down the materials  costs further without 
revisiting the property.  So I havent seen anything which supports Mr Ps view that the costs  
quoted by RSA are too low for the work that needed to be carried  out. 
Under the policy, RSAs  responsibility is to return the kitchen to its pre-loss  state. RSA 
considers some of the elements of Mr P and Mrs Hs quote  to be betterment  in that they 
include replacement of items that werent  damaged, such  as some of the units  in Mr P and 
Mrs Hs quote.
So I havent seen  anything which persuades me RSA couldnt do the work for the price  it 
quoted. It has also offered  to carry out the repairs itself. So I think  its given reasonable 
options to Mr P and Mrs H and I dont  think it needs  to do anything  further  to settle the claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I am aware that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc has made  an offer to pay £100 compensation. I conclude that such  an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should pay Mr P and Mrs H £100, if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8103634