K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Responsible  Life Limited (RLL) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when dealing with their application for an equity release mortgage. They  want  
compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs B were  interested in taking out an equity release  mortgage. They  said that they 
told RLL that they were  refurbishing  their property at the time and it said it would send an 
adviser to talk to them. After meeting  the adviser, who recommended a product, the 
application couldnt proceed  as the valuer said the property was inhabitable as the work had 
already been started.  Mr and Mrs B thought RLL shouldve known this and warned them that 
the work  might make it difficult to get the mortgage, and said its adviser  had been negligent. 
They were  also unhappy that RLL wouldnt progress matters  until its adviser had met both 
Mr and Mrs B face to face, causing  a delay  of about  a month;  Mr and Mrs B felt that they 
wouldve been able to get the mortgage  while the property was habitable if RLL hadnt so 
delayed. They said that RLLs  actions meant  that they couldnt get an equity release 
mortgage, and had to get a much more  expensive loan;  they wanted  RLL to compensate for 
their additional  interest  and the costs of pausing the building works due to lack of funds.
Mr and Mrs B complained to RLL. It said its adviser was originally contacted by 
Mr and Mrs B through a third party and could only offer products from one lender who 
wouldnt allow applications  for such properties.  This meant RLL had to act outside  the third 
party scheme and found a lender who would consider  such applications, but subject to a 
survey. This was the lender to whom  the application was made  and who sent the valuer. 
RLL noted that the initial call recordings showed  Mr B was told not to proceed with work until 
the survey took place,  and denied that its adviser  said it was ok to proceed. It also said that 
the adviser insisted  on a face to face meeting with both Mr and Mrs B as Mr B was abroad 
and the phone line was poor; RLL explained that it was essential to ensure consumers had a 
full understanding of the product prior to application.  It also said by the second  meeting, the 
adviser was unaware  that the major works on the property had already started.
Mr and Mrs B complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that RLL wasnt  at fault. He said 
that the calls showed  that from the start Mr B was aware that once work started, it would be 
difficult to get a loan and RLL confirmed  this and told to wait for a valuation  to be carried out. 
The adjudicator also thought that the adviser  insisted on a face to face meeting as the phone  
line to Mr B was poor and he needed to understand matters fully, and noted Mr B didnt 
object to the delay. The adjudicator said that Mr and Mrs B chose  to go ahead  with the work 
without having  had a valuation and while  knowing that the property had to be habitable; he 
also noted that bridging finance was already in place if needed.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said that they didnt know if equity release mortgage were 
different to ordinary mortgages and would allow loans over uninhabitable properties, and 
RLL shouldve been much clearer about  the position  from the outset. They  thought that the 
adviser simply didnt understand that lenders wouldnt lend for such mortgages if the 
property was uninhabitable. Mr B said that he did understand equity release mortgages and 
the quality of the call wasnt an issue. 
Ref: DRN80877592The adjudicator said that RLL didnt tell Mr B to start work before the valuation was carried 
out and in his view showed during the calls that he knew  lenders mightnt  lend over 
properties while work was being  carried out. He agreed with Mr and Mrs B that it appeared 
that the adviser didnt realise how important  habitability  was for the application, but noted  
Mr and Mrs B werent advised  to start the work  by RLL.  The adjudicator said it was 
reasonable for RLL to expect Mr and Mrs B to wait until the valuation  was carried out, and it 
was their choice to proceed with the work without confirmation that this would not affect the 
application. Mr and Mrs B wanted  an ombudsmans decision  and said the adviser was at 
fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its worth noting that this service  doesnt 
punish businesses  for making mistakes, but simply ensures that consumers are put back  
into the position that they shouldve been  in all along  if the mistake  hadnt been made. This 
means that its possible a mistake is made  but no action is required as the mistake  didnt 
make a difference.
In Mr and Mrs Bs case, they chose to start work  on their property  without having  an equity 
release mortgage  in place  and receipt of the mortgage monies.  This is something  that 
businesses reasonably and fairly dont expect consumers to do, and I note is expressly  
warned against  in RLLs leaflet. And I also note that at no point did RLL tell Mr and Mrs B to 
go ahead  with the work; the calls show that consistently RLL said to wait for the valuation  
and theres no evidence that the adviser  said gave contrary  advice. Its also relevant that 
Mr B knew  the work could  potentially cause issues with a loan, whether it was a normal 
mortgage or not; this is why he asked RLL about it. I dont think  RLL told Mr B to go ahead  
with the work and I dont think its fair or reasonable for it to pay the costs relating to the 
bridging finance, which appears  to have been available  before Mr B contacted RLL. I also 
would point out that there was no guarantee that the application ultimately wouldve been 
successful, even if the property was habitable.
And I dont  think the adviser acted unfairly or unreasonably  in requiring to meet Mr B face to 
face to proceed. The adviser has said that due to the phone line, he was concerned Mr B 
mightnt fully understand the product. While RLL does say in its information that clients  can 
choose not to meet  face to face,  equity release mortgages are a specialist product that 
businesses are from time to time accused  of mis-selling.  Good industry  practice is to meet 
the consumers  to not only explain  the product, but to assess their general level of 
understanding of financial  matters and other  issues, such as capacity. Advisers must satisfy 
themselves that the consumers fully understand, and it wasnt  unfair or unreasonable  for the 
adviser to want to meet Mr B. Mr B feels this caused a delay,  but theres no evidence  that he 
objected and I note that in the calls Mr B said that he was willing to delay the works if 
necessary. It was Mr and Mrs Bs choice to proceed with the work  (and it seems  that they did 
so before the second meeting took place).
I think that the adviser didnt really know how important habitability would be to the lenders, 
but I dont think  this matters in the circumstances of this case.  RLLs other staff made it clear 
in the calls that it was best to wait for the valuation, and no-one at RLL told Mr and Mrs B 
that it was safe to proceed.  Its also worth noting  that brokers  dont always  know  all of the 
lending policies of all of the lenders as some  policies are confidential. By the time the adviser  
met Mr B, work had commenced  so the lack of understanding by the adviser  didnt cause the 
alleged loss.
Ref: DRN80877593my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 August 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8087759