K821x#15Complaint
Mr W complains that Advantage Insurance  Company Limited didnt initially  refund  him his 
excess of £95 on his motor insurance  policy  after being involved in an accident. Hes also 
unhappy with the length of time the issue has taken, and says the excess policy  wording is 
unclear.
Background
In May 2018  Mr W says he was hit by an uninsured driver whod seemingly stolen a car. He 
complains he was told multiple times on the phone when speaking to Advantage that he had 
to pay the excess,  this was despite  his understanding of the uninsured  driver promise that 
applied to his policy meaning he wouldnt have to.
Ultimately Mr W paid the excess, but expected  it back following confirmation he wasnt at 
fault for the accident. And he says he didnt hear anything for around six months, so 
contacted Advantage in December 2018 asking when itd be refunded.  Mr W was told 
multiple times he needed to contact the insurance  company  who insured the owner of the 
potentially stolen car, when actually he didnt  need to. 
Mr W then made a complaint in January 2019. Advantage said theyd referred him to the 
other insurers without reviewing their uninsured drivers promise. And added  they felt the 
uninsured drivers promise isnt clear enough in explaining that, in some circumstances, the 
excess has to be paid.  They refunded the £95 excess to Mr W, and awarded him £50 in 
compensation to recognise their errors.
But Mr W was unhappy with this. Advantage said in their response to the complaint I will be 
refunding your £95.00 excess as compensation. Mr W argued  this wasnt compensation 
as it never  should  have  been charged, and that by saying it was theyve not been clear they 
made a mistake in charging it. Mr W wanted  an apology for the mistake,  and for them to tell 
him how they were  going to fix their policy  documents.
So Mr W asked  us to look into his complaint. In Advantages  submission to us they said they 
hadnt heard  from the other  drivers insurer, so couldnt say for sure that the driver  was 
uninsured or that this was a stolen car. Theyve  said this means they were right to charge 
the excess in this scenario, but also note the case handler agreed to refund it because  that 
person thought the promise wasnt clear. Advantage added that the uninsured  drivers 
promise wording has since been  improved.
Our case handler considered the complaint. She ultimately felt Advantage were wrong to 
have charged the excess  because the promise says you wouldnt have to pay if the driver 
wasnt insured, and as it appears the car was stolen it seems  likely the driver  wasnt  insured. 
She also said that she was concerned by a number of emails Mr W sent Advantage, which 
werent properly responded to. And overall  Advantages customer  service was poor.  Her 
recommendations were  Advantage  apologise for charging  the excess, and increase the 
compensation amount awarded  in this complaint from £50 to £100.
Mr W agreed with this, but Advantage didnt  so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN83773272My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Im going to uphold  
this complaint, and Ill explain  why.
Advantage have  argued they correctly  charged  the excess  but theyve also accepted the 
wording of the uninsured driver promise  wasnt  clear   and thats why theyve refunded the 
excess. Theyve since updated  their wording in the policy terms for the uninsured driver 
promise. So I think its right that Advantage refunded the excess for that reason. 
Looking at whats happened its clear that Mr W has had to spend some time trying  to get to 
the bottom  of why he was charged  the excess when he didnt think  he should have been. 
Ive looked at what Advantage have told Mr W  and I dont think they gave a clear 
explanation of why he was being charged. Mr W has said this caused him inconvenience, 
and this is shown  throughout the contact  Mr W has had with Advantage.
In addition Advantage have accepted  they gave poor customer  service. I think  not updating  
someone for six months  is poor customer service  and means  Mr W was left wondering what 
was happening with his claim. And after he got in touch to complain, he was then told he can 
contact the other insurer, when actually he didnt need to. Hes told us that resulted in a 
number of frustrating  phone calls, both to the other insurer, and to Advantage. This is 
backed up by Advantages contact notes, which show their agents telling Mr W he can 
contact the other insurer.
In response to our case handlers suggestion of awarding £100  Advantage replied and 
focused on their argument that the excess was correctly charged.  But I think this misses the 
point. Our case handler awarded £100  for the lack of explanation around the excess, 
because she thought it had been  incorrectly charged,  and because of the poor customer  
service.
I contacted Advantage, and asked if they were prepared to informally  resolve  this complaint, 
by increasing the compensation  amount from £50 to £100  in line with what our case 
handler suggested. Advantage replied and said they werent prepared to accept this  
because they still dont know if the other driver was insured or not, so believe they were 
correct in charging the excess. They conclude by saying the refund of the excess,  plus the 
compensation, is more  than reasonable.
But as Ive mentioned above, I think Advantage were right to refund the excess  because the 
policy terms werent clear  and I think the increase in compensation to £100 for charging  
the excess without  a proper explanation and for the poor customer  service is a fair resolution  
to this complaint.  I also think Advantage should say sorry to Mr W for the inconvenience 
theyve caused  him.
In March 2019 Mr W contacted us with further  information about difficulties he says hes 
having with Advantage. I can only consider the original complaint raised, so if Mr W is 
unhappy about other events that have  happened,  and arent  covered in this decision, he 
should speak  to Advantage in the first instance.
Ref: DRN83773273My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W 
£100 compensation in total  if theyve already paid £50 they can deduct this. And I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to issue an apology to Mr W for the poor customer  
service Ive outlined  in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377327