K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Allianz  Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance  claim. My references 
to Allianz include  its agents.
background
In November 2017 Ms P took out pet insurance with Allianz for her dog.
In mid 2018  the dog needed surgery  for brachycephalic airway obstruction syndrome 
(BAOS) and Ms P claimed on the policy.
Allianz wouldnt pay the claim. The dogs  2015 vet notes said the vet had told Ms P that 
anatomical features  of her dog, which were  pronounced even for the breed, may result in 
breathing problems. Allianz also saw that in early 2017 the dog was noted as being  obese. 
Allianz said BAOS was a pre-exiting existing condition which  first showed clinical signs in 
November 2015,  before the start of policy, so excluded from cover.  
Allianz also said if it had known about her dogs health issues  when she took out the policy it 
would have added a specific exclusion for respiratory system disorders and other specific  
exclusions. It added the exclusions to apply  retrospectively from the start of the policy  and 
used the respiratory  system disorders exclusion to decline the claim. 
Ms P complained to us and wants her claim paid. She said the vets comments  in 2015 were  
about her dogs breed, not directly  about her dog who was very young at the time and her 
facial features were still developing. The first time she knew  her dog needed surgery was in 
2018 when it was found the dog had a long soft palate covering her throat. That problem 
wouldnt have been visible  on the 2015  examination  as could only be seen when her dog 
was sedated. Ms Ps vet sent a letter in support of her claim saying the 2015 vet notes were  
a comment on the dogs anatomy, there  was no sign of existing  respiratory disease. 
Our investigator thought Allianz had fairly  declined the claim primarily because it would have 
added the relevant exclusion  if it had known her dog was obese. 
Ms P disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said Allianz didnt tell her about  
its concerns about  her dogs weight which she said wasnt excessive  or life threatening. 
Shes a member of a group  for her dogs breed and other members  havent had their 
insurance claims declined  even though some of their dogs are heavier. She also thought  
Allianz had mis-sold the policy as it hadnt  told her about the respiratory disorders or other 
specific exclusions. Shed  like her premiums  refunded. She sent us her dogs 2019  health 
report.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz added other  specific  retrospective  exclusions to the policy  based  on Ms Ps dogs 
health issues before she took out the policy. Those  exclusions arent relevant to Ms Ps 
claim and she hasnt  complained that Allianz  added  those  specific  exclusion unfairly. My 
decision is only about whether Allianz  fairly  declined  her BAOS  claim.
Ref: DRN86232282Im sorry  to disappoint Ms P but I dont uphold her complaint.  Ill explain why.
Allianzs final response letter to Ms P isnt very clear but it actually declined her claim for two 
reasons; the specific respiratory system disorders exclusion it added  retrospectively due to 
her dogs medical history  and the pre-existing condition exclusion thats usual in most  pet 
insurance policies.  Allianz  also took her dogs obesity into account in deciding  to add the 
respiratory system disorders exclusion, although that also isnt clear  in its letter to Ms P.
I only need to decide if Allianz can fairly  decline the claim  using  one of those reasons, it 
doesnt need to have  both reasons.
I think Allianz did fairly add the respiratory  system disorders exclusion.  In line with the 
relevant legislation about non-disclosure, I generally say an insurer can fairly add an 
exclusion to the policy retrospectively if:
 the policyholder  didnt  take reasonable care in answering clear questions  asked 
when they bought  the policy, and
 if the insurer had known the correct  information it would have added  the exclusion.
 
When Ms P bought  the policy one of the questions she was asked was Has (pets name)  
been seen by a vet for any reason? Ms P answered  no to that clear question. I think  Ms P 
should have reasonably answered yes as her dog had been to the vet several  times before  
she took out the policy.
If shed answered yes Allianz would have asked follow  up questions, which  are clear,  and a 
reasonable response would have made Allianz  aware of what was discussed  at the vet visits 
and her dogs weight. 
The 2015  vet notes say clinically (pets  name) has extremely  marked maxillary 
brachygnathism, even  for (the breed) this is very marked  and may result  in breathing 
problems due to the placement of the nose deeply  within facial  folds and eyes protruding  
excessively even for the breed. The vet records dont support Ms Ps suggestion that the vet 
was just commenting on her dogs breed's general  anatomy,  not her particular dogs 
conformation.
The early  2017  vet notes say strongly  advise(d) weight clinic as dog is obese at present and 
will have major breathing and joint issues long term. Just before Ms P took out the policy  the 
vet notes say discussed  risks of being brachycephalic and overweight with a bitch spay.
Ive seen Allianzs underwriting guidance. If Allianz had known the vet discussed that Ms Ps 
dogs conformation was excessive, even for the breed,  or that the dog was obese  it would 
have added the exclusion for the respiratory  system  disorders from the start of the policy. So 
I think Allianz fairly added  the exclusion backdated  to the start of the policy.
Allianz can fairly add and rely on the respiratory  system disorders  exclusion to decline the 
claim for BAOS.  That means I dont need to consider whether Allianz  also fairly relied on the 
pre-existing condition exclusion.  
Allianz doesnt need to pay the claim.
Ref: DRN86232283Ms P says she was mis-sold the policy because Allianz didnt tell her about  the respiratory 
system disorders exclusion or other specific exclusions when  she bought the policy.  But 
Allianz didnt know  at that point about  her dogs medical history  so it couldnt know  that it 
would be adding those  specific exclusions.  When it was aware of the medical history it wrote  
to Ms P about all the specific exclusions it had added to her policy.  Ive explained above why 
I think it could reasonably add and use the relevant exclusion to decline the BAOS claim. 
Allianz didnt mis-sell  the policy  on the basis Ms P suggests. It doesnt need to refund the 
premiums.
I cant comment on the insurance claims made by other members  of Ms Ps dogs group. 
Insurers assess claims on their individual circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8623228