K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS), misrepresented  a finance agreement to her.
background
In December 2015 Mrs D took receipt  of a new car that she financed  through a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. Mrs D says that at the time she was told by the sales  
agent that she could return the car after two years with no further costs. But she was 
shocked to later discover this was a four year deal and she couldnt. She complained about 
the poor service  shed  received and the misrepresentation  to VWFS.
But VWFS couldnt find evidence that the deal had been misrepresented.  They  noted that 
Mrs D had signed a four year deal and had also ticked and signed the pre contract 
explanation checklist  which  clarified shed been told about the repayments. They  explained 
that the dealership disputed Mrs Ds version of events and didnt agree theyd told her she 
could withdraw from the deal after only two years.
So Mrs D referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided an opinion. She 
explained that this service  couldnt  consider complaints about poor service from the 
dealership as they didnt relate  to a financially regulated product. But she went  on to 
consider the other aspect of Mrs Ds complaint. She explained that as Mrs Ds version  of 
events were disputed  by the dealership,  the written agreements were persuasive. These 
said the deal was for four years. She explained  that at the point at which half of the sums 
payable under the agreement had been made, Mrs D would have been allowed to voluntarily  
terminate it and she explained she thought this point had now been reached. But she didnt 
think there was sufficient evidence to decide  that the agreement had been  misrepresented. 
But Mrs D disagreed. She said it was very clear the dealership knew  theyd mislead  her as 
theyd been overly keen to try to find a way to get over the negative  equity in the car when 
shed tried to return it. And she went on to explain that the dealership had poor reviews  on 
websites. She therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think theres evidence here that the agreement was mis-sold  to Mrs D. I know  that will 
be disappointing for her so please let me explain why I agree with the adjudicators view of 
this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN88646102Complaints about  the service received  by the dealership, as the adjudicator has explained, 
are not financially regulated activities. Mrs D should complain directly to the dealership but if 
shes still dissatisfied she can refer her complaint to the Motor Ombudsman.
Mrs D acquired  her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the 
agreement should  not have been  misrepresented. If it was then VWFS are responsible  and 
Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
I know Mrs D feels very strongly about this issue and I can see that shes asked me, 
amongst other things,  to consider website reviews in relation to this complaint. I dont  think 
that would  be fair as I can, and should,  only consider the case on its individual merits. 
Here Mrs Ds version of events varies from the dealerships. So my starting point is the 
documentation that was signed.
The hire purchase agreement clearly sets out that there are to be 48 monthly payments of 
£374.15 and a final balloon payment of £18,287.50. The total amount of payable is 
£40,556.70 and if Mrs D wanted  to terminate her contract early she could if she paid, or had 
already paid, half of that amount.
So its clear that with these repayments she hadnt entered a two year hire purchase 
agreement as the monthly instalments  would  need  to be significantly higher to cover the 
credit that had been made available. 
Mrs D may have  had a conversation about voluntary termination which was her right under 
the agreement  and which she could invoke if shed paid half of the amount due. Shed 
clearly have needed to increase her instalments or pay a lump sum if she wished to do this.
If she was promised she could voluntarily terminate early, after two years  without any 
additional financial input,  then this may have been  misrepresentation.  But the dealership  
dispute this and the finance agreement and signed pre-contract checklist  suggest otherwise. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds suggestion  that the dealership  worked very hard to try to 
reduce the negative equity she had in the car when  she tried to trade it back in. It wouldnt  
be fair to say that on that basis it was clear  the car had been  misrepresented to her. 
So overall, I dont  think theres evidence here that the vehicle Mrs D took receipt of was 
misrepresented to her and Im therefore  not asking VWFS to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8864610