K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) delayed collection of 
a car after he had voluntarily terminated  his finance  agreement. 
background
Mr S had a car which was funded  by a finance agreement with VFS. He submitted a 
voluntary termination  request in late May 2018. This was accepted by VFS and it instructed 
a company I will call B to collect the car. It wrote  to Mr S to say B would be in contact  within 
seven days.
B has said it sought to collect  the car on several  occasions, but was unable to do so. Mr S 
says that B cancelled  collecting the car on a number of occasions and refused to 
accommodate dates  and times which were  suitable  to him. As a result the car was left on his 
drive and he continued to pay insurance  and tax.
VFS says that it contacted B a number of times  to chase up collection, but was told that it 
had tried to collect the car, but without success.  Apparently the car wasnt drivable and so B 
needed to collect  it on a low loader.  B also said that it was unable  to accommodate the times 
that suited Mr S i.e. evening or weekends. In December 2018 VFS cancelled  the 
arrangement with B and engaged a company that deals in forcible  recovery.  VFS said that 
the delay had caused it to lose money  as the car had further  depreciated.
Mr Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt  recommend  it be 
upheld. She spoke to B which explained it no longer had records  relating to this job as the 
contract had been  cancelled.  However, she was able to see from VFSs notes that it had 
chased up B regularly  and B had explained  why it hadnt been  able to make the collection.
She concluded there was no evidence of VFS cancelling  the collection and she didnt believe 
B was obliged to collect the car outside normal business hours. Mr S didnt agree and said 
that we should obtain call recordings from B. He disputed that he had cancelled the 
collection arrangements  and said it had been the fault of B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I have every sympathy with Mr S I cannot  uphold his complaint. I will explain why.
Although B no longer has records the notes from VFS show  that it was taking steps  to collect 
the car. As VFS has pointed out it was in its interest  to get the car back  as soon as possible.  
As such I can see that it was pushing  B to collect  the car. It made a number of calls to chase 
up B and to ask what was happening.  The notes record  that B was struggling to gain access  
to it after it discovered  that the car couldnt be driven. This meant it had to return  with a low 
loader and it was unable  to meet Mr Ss requirements. I also note that it said that Mr S had 
subsequently refused  to surrender the car after he had made  a complaint to VFS.
It seems  that the relationship between Mr S and B broke down and the car remained where 
it had been left. I dont have  access to the call recordings of the conversations  between Mr S 
Ref: DRN89243942and B and based on the evidence I do have I do not consider it sufficient  to allow  me to 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
28 November 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8924394