K820x#14complaint
Mrs P complains because Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  hasnt  paid a claim under her 
travel insurance policy.
background
Mrs P holds a travel  insurance  policy as a benefit of her bank account. The insurance is 
provided by Aviva. 
Mrs Ps flights were  cancelled and her airline couldnt offer an alternative  until four days  
later, so refunded her the money  shed  paid. Mrs P bought new flights to get to her 
destination and made a claim  for the additional  cost of these under her insurance  policy. 
Aviva said Mrs Ps circumstances  qualified her to make a claim under her policy  but because 
she didnt have any unused, non-refundable expenses, there  was no financial loss for Aviva 
to consider. But Aviva said a travel delay benefit  may be payable  under the policy.  
Unhappy, Mrs P brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Aviva had handled the claim fairly and didnt recommend for it to do 
anything more. Mrs P asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva, as the underwriter of Mrs Ps insurance policy, is the business responsible for 
deciding whether or not to pay her claim.  I understand Mrs P is also unhappy with the role of 
her bank in what has happened. But this is the subject of a separate  complaint with our 
service so I wont be commenting on anything Mrs P has said about that here.
The Financial Ombudsman  Service considers  complaints  based  on their own individual 
circumstances, so my role is to decide whether I think Aviva has been  unfair  or 
unreasonable in applying  the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps own policy to the 
circumstances of her claim.  I wont be commenting on any decision by other  insurers  to 
accept similar claims,  either under the terms and conditions of different policies or as 
gestures of goodwill for their customers,  as I dont think this is relevant to Mrs Ps complaint.  
The terms and conditions  of the abandoning  your holiday section of Mrs Ps policy say 
Aviva will pay for costs  that each insured  person has paid, and cannot get back, or 
which legally have  to be paid for their own unused personal travel and accommodation 
costs. if certain listed events happen. 
One of these listed events is where the policyholders  pre-booked travel  arrangements  have 
been cancelled  because airspace or an airport has been closed and the airline  cant  provide 
suitable alternative travel arrangements  within 24 hours of the original departure  time. 
Ref: DRN88464052I understand the incident which led to Mrs Ps flights being cancelled hasnt happened  
before. But the circumstances of Mrs Ps claim do fall within the terms and conditions  of her 
policy, so the situation  itself is covered. And Aviva has acknowledged this. 
However the issue here is the financial loss which Mrs P is claiming for. 
The abandoning your holiday part of Mrs Ps policy, in common with similar sections of 
most other travel insurance policies on the market, provides cover for unused travel and 
accommodation costs  which  the policyholder cant reclaim from elsewhere. But if it was 
cheaper for Mrs P to make alternative arrangements to continue to her destination rather  
than cancel her trip, Id expect Aviva to offer to pay what it would have cost Mrs P if she had 
chosen to cancel instead. 
However Mrs P doesnt seem to have any unused travel or accommodation costs which  she 
hasnt been able to recover from elsewhere. She received a refund for her original flights 
from her airline and I understand her parking  costs  have  also been refunded. Mrs P didnt 
have any unused accommodation costs. So, overall, Mrs P doesnt have any outstanding 
financial loss for unused expenses to reclaim from Aviva.  And if Mrs P had chosen to cancel 
her holiday  instead,  she also wouldnt have had any unrecoverable expenses for doing so.  
I do understand Mrs P has been left out of pocket because she paid for new flights  which 
were more expensive  than her original  ones. And I can appreciate her frustration at having  
her claim for these  costs  turned down.  But I dont think  what  Mrs P is claiming for is covered 
under any section of her insurance policy, so it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to ask 
Aviva to pay for these.
Mrs P may be entitled to a fixed benefit  payment under  the travel delay section of cover.  I 
understand Mrs P has already sent flight booking details to Aviva  but it was unable to view 
these. If Mrs P resends  this information  to Aviva then it will assess the length of the delay 
and Mrs Ps entitlement to a benefit under the terms and conditions of this section of cover.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019. 
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8846405