K822xcomplaint
Mrs and Mr W have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them  a packaged bank
account, called an Ultimate Reward  Current Account  (URCA).
Mrs and Mr W paid a monthly  fee for the URCA and received several potential benefits  in
return. They think that Bank of Scotland should  refund  them the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
I previously sent Bank of Scotland and Mrs and Mr W a provisional decision on this 
complaint. That provisional decision now forms part of this final decision and I have attached 
a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint. I 
explained why I thought  that Bank of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to Mrs and Mr W and 
I described how I would tell Bank of Scotland to compensate  them if I finally decided that 
way. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I made  a final decision. They have both now replied to say that they accept 
my provisional decision without further  comment.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mrs and Mr W have told us or sent us throughout the case,  
but as there is nothing  new for me to consider since I sent my provisional decision, I have 
reached the same conclusions for the same reasons.
Bank of Scotland should now put things right for Mrs and Mr W by paying them  appropriate 
compensation.
putting things right
To put things right for Mrs and Mr W, Bank  of Scotland  should put them  into the financial
position they would have  been in if it hadnt  sold them the URCA.
Bank of Scotland should therefore:
refund  Mrs and Mr W all the fees they paid for the URCA
add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mrs and Mr W paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bank  of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.
Bank of Scotland must give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if
they ask for one.
Ref: DRN85690592If Bank of Scotland can show that Mrs and Mr W gained financially from the banking  benefits
that came  with the URCA (such as the cheaper overdrafts I mentioned  in my provisional  
decision), then it may deduct the relevant amount  from the compensation worked out as 
above. If it chooses to do this, then it must  set out its calculation clearly  and simply  for Mrs 
and Mr W so they can follow what it has done.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I am upholding Mrs 
and Mr Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland Plc. It should now put things right for them 
by paying them the compensation I have described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85690593Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs and Mr W have complained that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them  a packaged  bank
account, called an Ultimate Reward  Current Account (URCA).
Mrs and Mr W paid a monthly fee for the URCA and received several  potential  benefits  in
return. They  think that Bank of Scotland should refund them the fees they paid, plus interest.
background
The adjudicator who looked into this case didnt think that Bank of Scotland had treated
Mrs and Mr W unfairly and didnt recommend that it should give them any money  back.
Mrs and Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to
look into their case, so it has come to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach  to help me to decide what to do in Mrs and Mr Ws case.
Ive looked into everything that Mrs and Mr W and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us
about the complaint and I currently  intend to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mrs and Mr W have been customers  of Bank of Scotland for quite a long time. Bank of Scotland has 
told us that they first opened  a fee-free account in 1993 and that they had a fee-free  account until 
April 2010, when it sold them the URCA.  They kept the URCA until March  2019 when  they went  back  
to a fee-free account. I think that Bank of Scotlands records  about this are probably reliable and I 
have taken them to be accurate.
There are several unusual features to this complaint  concerning Mrs and Mr Ws financial
arrangements. The details of these are, of course, entirely a matter  for Mrs and Mr W
themselves, but some  aspects of their arrangements  have affected  their relationship with
Bank of Scotland  and are relevant to my assessment of this complaint, so I will describe
them in brief.
The URCA was in joint names  and this is a joint complaint which  Mrs and Mr W have
brought to us together. They have given us their joint consent to consider it. However, I
understand that the two of them have conducted their finances  separately for several years,
and that this arrangement  started  shortly  before Bank of Scotland sold them  the URCA.
I gather that Mrs W used the URCA  whereas Mr W didnt. Bank of Scotland  seems to have
been aware  of this arrangement. I have seen some of its file notes from its investigation into
the complaint which say there  has been a marital split a few years ago but the account
remains in both names.  During its own investigation,  it mainly seems to have considered
Mrs Ws financial situation.  Mrs and Mr W both seem to have accepted its approach, and I
agree that it is pragmatic,  sensible, and fair in the circumstances. So I have taken the same
approach to considering  the evidence.  In the rest of this decision, where an event only
seems to have affected or involved Mrs W, I have therefore only mentioned her name, but
this remains  a joint complaint.
Ref: DRN85690594Mrs W has given us a detailed description  of how she recalls Bank of Scotland selling  the
URCA to her. She has told us that prior to 2010, she and Mr W managed their finances
together and that Bank of Scotland allowed them an arranged overdraft  of up to £800 with
their fee-free account. After  they separated, she was finding  it hard to manage her own
finances and went to one of Bank of Scotlands branches (without Mr W) for a meeting to
discuss her circumstances  and to ask for any help that Bank  of Scotland could provide.
Mrs W has told us that during the meeting she explained that she wanted to keep the
overdraft facilities, but Bank of Scotland said that as her circumstances had changed
(through her separation from Mr W) she had to have the URCA  to keep the overdraft. Shes
said that Bank of Scotland changed (the) account  during the meeting, and has told us that
she and Mr W already  had an overdraft  and used it regularly, but (she)  was told (she) had to
change if (she) wanted  to keep the overdraft (herself).
The crux of this complaint is that Mrs W now thinks that Bank of Scotland misled her about
this. She believes she could have continued to have  the same overdraft  facility without
buying the URCA, but Bank of Scotland didnt  give her this choice.
Bank of Scotland  has not told us a great deal about how it sold the URCA  to Mrs W. After so
much time has passed,  it cant tell if it sold the account over the telephone, through  one of its
branches or in some  other way. It has, however, told us that it would have sold the URCA  on
an information only basis, whereby it would have told Mrs W about the URCAs cost and
potential benefits, but not given her any advice, as this was its policy at the time.
I accept that in 2010  Bank  of Scotland often sold URCAs  without making personal
recommendations, but in this case, Im satisfied that Mrs W certainly  believed that it was
recommending the URCA to her, and I have  considered  her complaint  as an advised  sale.
As such, I would have  expected Bank of Scotland to tell Mrs W about  the URCAs costs and
benefits fairly and clearly,  give her a choice about it, and check that it was a reasonable
match for her circumstances  before making  its recommendation.
Bank of Scotland  has specifically told us that it has found no evidence that it told Mrs W
that she had to have the URCA  to keep her overdraft. It has explained that as she held an
arranged overdraft  prior to taking the URCA.(she  must have had an)... awareness of
having an arranged  overdraft without a maintaining the account fee. I understand from
these comments that Bank of Scotland accepts that Mrs W could have kept the overdraft
with the fee-free account.  Indeed, I believe  that Bank of Scotlands general  policy at the time
was that the type of account a customer held would not affect its decisions about  agreeing
(or refusing) to arrange  overdrafts.
As Bank  of Scotland doesnt  have  many records of how it sold the URCA to Mrs W, Im not
surprised that it has found no evidence of any advice  it may have given. And there is no
dispute that Mrs W knew before taking the URCA  that she could have an overdraft  with a
fee-free account.  Her main point is that she went  to Bank of Scotland for help and in effect it
told her that it would withdraw the overdraft unless she changed to an URCA. So she is
saying that Bank of Scotland gave  her incorrect information during  the meeting  which led her
buy the URCA.
Obviously, without any detailed records of exactly what happened during the meeting, I cant
be sure what  Bank  of Scotland did or didnt say. But I have considered  what  both parties
have told us to work out what is most likely to have occurred. I have also considered
Mrs Ws personal situation and financial circumstances  at the time.
During our investigation into this case, Mrs W has given  us a pretty full description of what
she remembers happening. I certainly accept that she went  to see Bank of Scotland  for help
and that during the meeting Bank of Scotland sold her the URCA.  I also accept that she told
Bank of Scotland  what  was happening with her finances and that she saw her priority as
Ref: DRN85690595being to keep  her overdraft;  after all she had requested  the meeting  for just this reason.
Mrs Ws recollections of the discussion have  also been  very clear  and consistent with her
situation. Shes told us that at the time she was worried about keeping a roof over her head
and was quite distressed, which she explained  to Bank of Scotland.  She has also said that
after the meeting she thought that Bank of Scotland was doing (its) best for her in advising
her to take the URCA, as she then believed this was the only way she could keep the
overdraft.
In Bank of Scotlands own investigation into the complaint, it seems to have disagreed that
the overdraft  was an important factor in Mrs W buying  the URCA.  Its investigation records
note that it cannot say the overdraft was the reason the customer took the URCA. It thinks
that she bought the URCA for some of its other potential benefits.
I do not accept Bank of Scotlands  point  that the overdraft was not important. I think  Mrs W
saw it as crucial.  Had Bank of Scotland explained to her clearly that she could keep the
overdraft with the fee-free account, I dont  think she would  have bought the URCA.
I would like to clarify that I doubt  very much  that Bank of Scotland set out to mislead Mrs W.
But I think that in the unusual circumstances under  which  the meeting took place, it probably
failed to explain matters  clearly to her and that as a result she didnt understand her choices
and became convinced that she had to buy the URCA. However, in fairness to Bank of
Scotland, I have also considered if there were other reasons why its recommendation may
have been reasonable.
In 2010, the potential benefits of the URCA  included  travel insurance, car breakdown cover
and home  emergency insurance. Bank of Scotland has pointed out to us that some of the
benefits, specifically the car breakdown cover and home emergency insurance, were
suitable for Mrs W, and that she could have cancelled  the account  if she felt they were
excessive for her needs.
I accept that Mrs W may possibly have had a potential need for some of the benefits the
URCA provided, but she has told us she had arranged  to obtain  those which she needed
from other sources. She didnt want or need them from a bank account. I dont think
Bank of Scotland  took this into account,  and nor do I think it properly  considered her financial
situation. Had it done  so, I dont think it would have recommended the URCA to her.
Im also aware  that an URCA could offer customers significantly lower fees and interest rates
on overdrafts  than Bank of Scotland charged its customer  with fee-free accounts; and that in
some cases, depending how often  a customer overdrew the account  and by how much,  the
resulting savings  could be larger than the monthly fees. However, given the way that
Mrs and Mr W had used  the overdraft on their fee-free free account  and Mrs Ws likely needs
after their separation, I dont think  this applied  in this case.
So in summary, I currently think  that Bank of Scotland misinformed Mrs W that she had to
buy the URCA to keep  the overdraft she wanted; and I also think that it recommended the
URCA to her when  it was not a reasonable choice  for her needs. Either  of these
shortcomings give me grounds to uphold  Mrs and Mr Ws complaint. If Bank of Scotland
had done things correctly,  I dont think Mrs and Mr W would have bought the URCA. It follows  that
I currently think Bank of Scotland should put things right by paying  them appropriate
compensation.
putting things  right
To put things right for Mrs and Mr W, Bank of Scotland  should  put them into the financial
position they would have been in if it hadnt sold them the URCA.
Ref: DRN85690596It should therefore:
refund Mrs and Mr W all the fees they paid for the URCA
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Mrs 
and Mr W paid the fee until the date it makes the refund  (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Bank of Scotland to take off tax from this interest.
Bank of Scotland  must give Mrs and Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if
they ask for one.
If Bank  of Scotland can show that Mrs and Mr W gained financially from the banking benefits
that came with the URCA (such as the cheaper  overdrafts  I mentioned previously), then it
may deduct the relevant  amount from the compensation worked out as above.  If it chooses
to do this, then it must set out its calculation clearly  and simply for Mrs and Mr W so they can
follow what it has done.  (For Mrs and Mr Ws benefit, I would like to point out that in some
circumstances these  deductions can be quite  large and that Bank of Scotland is entitled to
make them if it so wishes).
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Ws complaint.
Should I finally decide  this way, I will tell Bank of Scotland Plc to put things right by paying
them the compensation  I have described  above.
But first, I invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision with any further
comments or arguments they wish to make, or any information they wish me to review.
I will consider any responses they send me by 2 August 2020 before making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8569059