K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) won't pay her home  
insurance claim for water damage to her kitchen and bathroom.  The policy is a branded 
department store one though for convenience Ill refer to RSA throughout.
background
In September  2018 Ms G contacted RSA when part of the ceiling in her kitchen collapsed 
after water leaked  through  from the upstairs shower.  RSA sent out a surveyor who 
concluded that the damage had been  occurring over a considerable period of time and that 
the joists were rotten.  They identified several clear areas of damage  to the wall and floor.  
The water appeared  to be leaking  from the shower tray through  areas where  there was a 
lack of grout and sealant. 
Ms G had made  a claim to RSA in 2015 following a similar water  leak.  The water had leaked 
from the shower from the grout and sealant areas. It had been agreed that Ms G would  get 
the shower area repaired then RSA would consider any damage.  Ms G contacted RSAs 
contractor in 2016 to say she hadnt had the leak repaired and wouldnt be pursuing the 
claim until it was. The claim was closed and Ms G didnt contact RSA again  until the present 
claim. Ms G insists  though that she had the repair done to the grout  and sealant  at the same 
time as she had some work to her kitchen done,  but wasnt able to produce a receipt or any 
other evidence of this.
Ms G instructed  her own surveyor who also said the water was coming from the shower  tray 
grout and sealant  areas. He further  said the joists had decayed  due to water damage over 
several months.
Ms G was advised that RSA wouldnt be paying  the claim. The policy  had exclusions for rot 
and for wear  and tear or anything that happened  gradually and Ms G hadnt  shown she had 
the repairs done in respect  of the 2015 claim. It paid her £100  because of delays in reporting 
back to her in respect of the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that RSA had acted reasonably,  pointing  
out that there were two exclusions in the policy (for rot and wear and tear) which applied.
Ms G said this was unfair  she said the joists were  water damaged but there was no rot. 
She also queried how it could be wear  and tear, and said it was unfair that she was expected 
to produce receipts  for the work  done.
Our investigator pointed  out that her own surveyor said the joist was decayed which is a 
form of rot. The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA has declined this claim  based on two exclusions in the policy   firstly for rot Any loss, 
damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by rot. and secondly for wear  and 
tear. The exclusion  covers a number  of things but more particularly anything which happens 
gradually
Ref: DRN89606662I appreciate that in the case of rot (where its caused  by an ongoing leak) or water  damage 
its not always possible to tell if this has been happening. So our approach, in water  damage 
cases, is that applying such an exclusion is only reasonable  where the policyholder should 
have been expected to know  the damage  was occurring and failed to notify the insurer  or do 
anything about  it.
I think in this case there were factors which should have led Ms G to believe that there was 
water damage occurring. Firstly there  were  the clearly visible patches of mould and peeling 
paint in the bathroom. And secondly Ms G had made a previous claim for water  damage in 
2015  when the leak was identified as having come from the shower where grout  and 
sealant were missing. When the damage  was inspected in 2018, both by RSAs and Ms Gs 
surveyor, there was evidence that grout  and sealant  were still missing. 
I understand Ms Gs point  about the keeping of receipts for work done.  And I do understand 
that she was having  going through some very difficult  problems with her family, and that she 
continues to cope  with those. But the evidence from the inspections  is that it seemed  that the 
work wasnt done, so RSA asked for receipts  (or evidence of payment, or the contact 
number of the contractor). Ms G wasnt able to produce any such evidence.  So I think  that 
RSA reasonably concluded that the work  hadnt  been done, and that it was fair for it to apply 
the wear and tear exclusion.
In respect of rot, I can only say that the expert evidence  of two surveyors  says that there is 
rot. Whilst  theres no specific definition of this in the policy I think it fair to say that this means 
the wood has decayed due to water  damage. RSAs surveyor said the joists were 
completely  rotten  and Ms Gs surveyor said a joist had decayed due to water  damage. Rot 
is something that happens  over a period of time. I think  it likely in light of the previous claim 
that the damage to the wood had been happening  since  2015 or quite possibly some time 
before. I think it was also fair for RSA to apply the rot exclusion.
I should say that home insurance  policies  dont cover everything  that might  go wrong with a 
house, rather they cover specific  events.  In particular they dont cover general  maintenance 
issues, So overall,  and I am sorry that this is disappointing for Ms G, I think RSA acted 
reasonably in declining the claim for the reasons set out.
Lastly, in light of the delay  in reporting  back to Ms G in respect of its decision on her claim, I 
think it was reasonable  for RSA to pay the £100  compensation.
Ref: DRN89606663my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8960666