K820x#14complaint
Mr and Miss M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Miss M bought  the policy when they took out a loan in 1998. The loan included  an 
amount to pay for the policy.  The PPI only covered Mr M.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Miss Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Miss Ms complaint because:
I think Nationwide made Mr and Miss M aware  that they had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and they chose  to take it out. The leaflet attached to the application form only asked 
them to think about taking out the PPI. And said to apply they would need to tick the 
appropriate box on the application  form. On the application form the yes box was ticked 
and Mr M signed  alongside  this to confirm they wanted  PPI. The application form 
included a no box  so I think it was clear  from the form that Mr and Miss M didnt have 
to take the policy.  The loan agreement, which they signed later, also set out the cost of 
the PPI separately  and described  it as optional.  
Mr and Miss M say they were pressured to take out the policy.  The only evidence of this 
is their memory of the event. But their memory  appears to be inaccurate in terms of the 
policy being presented as optional.  So I dont think it would be fair to accept their 
allegation without  additional evidence. It may simply be that their memory of events has 
changed over time. That would  be understandable given the sale was over20 years ago.
Its unclear if Mr and Miss M spoke to a Nationwide representative about the policy. But 
even if they did, theres nothing  persuasive  that suggests Nationwide  recommended the 
PPI to them. So Nationwide didnt have to check if it was right for them.  Mr and Miss M 
say the PPI was not wanted or needed  but it seems they took it out even though it was 
presented as being optional. 
The cost of the policy was shown  including the amount of the premium, the interest  
payable on the premium and the total cost.  So I think Mr and Miss M would have 
understood how much the PPI would cost if they kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy  could have paid out for, if Mr and Miss M made a successful 
claim they couldve got back quite a bit more than they paid for it. 
Ref: DRN83053612Mr and Miss M wouldve  got back a pro-rata  refund of the PPI premium if they cancelled  
the policy early. So they wouldnt have lost out if they repaid the loan early.  
Its possible that Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr and Miss M dont appear  to have been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mr and Miss Ms comments. But these points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Miss M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8305361