K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold 
them a Black packaged  bank account in 2014.  They pay a monthly fee for the account  
which provides several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs H opened their fee-free account  in August 1988. They had a Private  Banking  
relationship manager, who they say visited them at home to upgrade to the Black account in 
November 2014.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt ask for the Black account; they explain the sale was 
unsolicited, and took place during a review  of their accounts.
The main  thrust of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is that they were  told the Black account  
included travel insurance which theyd be fully covered  by  despite both approaching the 
age of 70. Theyve since been charged  additional  premiums to extend the travel  insurance 
cover, to ensure they were both fully covered. 
One of our adjudicators didnt think that NatWest had acted unfairly and didnt recommend 
that NatWest should pay Mr and Mrs H any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree so they asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and 
make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Hs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the Black  account was 
mis-sold to them. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs H were  given  a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
I cant see any reason to think that Mr and Mrs H couldnt have declined  the Black account 
when it was offered  to them.  Theyve said that although the majority of the accounts benefits 
didnt really appeal  to them, they agreed  to it, and kept it, because  of the travel insurance  
policy it offered. So the question  I need  to consider isnt just whether Mr and Mrs H had a fair 
choice to upgrade,  but whether they had a fair choice based on the right information.
Ref: DRN80555932I dont think that NatWest made a personalised recommendation  when  it sold the Black 
account to Mr and Mrs H. Although I acknowledge the sale was completed face-to-face in 
their home, what I know about  NatWests  sales processes makes  me think  its more  likely 
that this was an information only sale. Im also persuaded by this after having looked at the 
sales paperwork. It contains a lot of information,  but theres no indication  that NatWest  
recommended the Black  account specifically, based Mr and Mrs Hs personal 
circumstances. I think  its more likely they were presented with information about it, and they 
made that decision for themselves.  
With this in mind, NatWest had to give Mr and Mrs H enough clear information  about the 
Black account for them to make a proper decision.  
Amongst other information, the sales paperwork completed at the time mentions the need  to 
declare pre-existing  medical conditions. I can see that Mr H didnt declare anything at that 
time, and Mrs H said she did have some pre-existing  conditions. Underneath this section, 
highlighted in a box is the statement:
If yes  You are not eligible  to claim  on this policy  for your pre-existing medical condition 
until you have called to confirm cover.  You will be medically screened and may be 
required to pay a premium for cover or we may decide not to cover you for that medical  
condition. This does  not affect other cover provided  by the Travel Insurance  policy.
The form goes on to direct customers,  who have indicated that they have existing  medical 
conditions, to call for medical screening before being covered. And it looks as though that 
call was done at the time the account was sold. The form is annotated  with All OK for cover  
following call for screening.  Theres no indication that Mr and Mrs H were charged  extra  at 
that time,  nor have  they mentioned that they were.
The upgrade  form  which Mr and Mrs H signed  on the day their account was upgraded  
gives details of the various other  benefits of the Black account, including the exclusions and 
limitations of those benefits. Mr and Mrs H may not have been particularly interested  in those 
benefits, and indeed they may not have gone  on to use them,  but based on what Ive seen I 
dont think thats  because they didnt  have enough information about them. I think  they chose 
to upgrade because as theyve said, they were  primarily interested in the accounts travel 
insurance.
Having considered the sale of Mr and Mrs Hs Black  account, Im not persuaded that 
NatWest mis-sold it to them. Im satisfied that the benefits were discussed, and that Mr and 
Mrs H were at least aware of what they were paying for, and how to make use of the 
accounts benefits. With hindsight they might not think the account has been good value for 
money to them,  but that doesnt  automatically  mean  it was mis-sold.
I now turn to the fees Mr and Mrs H have mentioned in relation to the Black accounts  travel 
insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H paid a £150 medical  upgrade fee in 2017. I dont know  the details of their 
medical histories but I note they havent disputed that fee. And they continued with the Black  
account at least  until it was due to be renewed in 2018. So I dont think they were  unhappy  
about paying the £150 fee  otherwise I think its more  likely theyd have chosen not to pay it 
keep the Black account. And I think theyd have  considered taking travel insurance 
elsewhere if they were  unhappy with it.
Ref: DRN80555933In 2018, after completing their annual medical screening review, the upgrade fee was quoted 
at £336. Mr and Mrs H say they were  in good health, and the only changes  in their 
circumstances between  2017 and 2018  were two trips to see their GP (one each).  They say 
these visits were for small  issues that were quickly remedied, and didnt represent an 
ongoing medical concern.
I understand that Mr and Mrs H chose  not to pay the upgrade fee at this point. Theyve said 
they took out an eight-day travel insurance  policy separately,  to cover an upcoming trip, 
which cost them around £56. 
Its clear that Mr and Mrs H feel very strongly  about the upgrade  fee they were quoted in 
2018 and I can certainly  understand  why the increase in price wouldve given them cause for 
concern. But the upgrade fee is set by the underwriters of the travel insurance  policy,  and 
represents the level of risk it says insuring the policy holders presents. The fee isnt set by 
NatWest and so I cant conclude  however unacceptable it may have been  to Mr and Mrs H 
 that NatWest is at fault for that.
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Hs allegation  that NatWest  has a vendetta  against  its 
older customers.
Although some of NatWests packaged  accounts  didnt  automatically cover customers over 
the age of 70, from what I can see, the Black account did. Ive looked at the literature from 
around the time the account was sold and theres  no suggestion that a customers  age has 
an impact on their insurance cover  provided  by the Black account. So Im satisfied  that if 
NatWest did suggest  the Black account  to Mr and Mrs H as a way to continue  their cover 
into their 70s, I dont think it was wrong to do that.
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  that the additional fees Mr and Mrs H paid to the 
travel insurer  were  age-related. In fact I think the opposite. They  appear to have been 
offered an account  which could  be beneficial  to older customers  based on the fact that its 
travel insurance policy didnt include an age restriction. And from what  Ive seen,  Im 
satisfied that the extensions  to the travel  insurance  Mr and Mrs H have  paid for and been  
quoted relate to pre-existing medical  conditions. So I dont accept that NatWest acted 
unfavourably towards Mr and Mrs H based on their age.
In conclusion, its clear that Mr and Mrs H fundamentally dont agree with the amount they 
were quoted to upgrade their travel  insurance policy to ensure they were fully covered. I 
understand that theyve expressed their wish for NatWest to be responsible  for, and to 
investigate this part of their complaint. But although  NatWest provided the Black account as 
a package of benefits, it isnt responsible for the individual terms of the policies within  it. So I 
dont hold NatWest  responsible for whats happened here.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And although I havent listed every  point theyve made individually, Ive thought 
carefully about everything theyve said. But having  done so I dont think NatWest  mis-sold 
the Black  account  to them in 2014. And I dont think NatWest is responsible for the additional 
fees quoted and charged by the travel insurer in relation to Mr and Mrs Hs pre-existing 
medical conditions.  So NatWest doesnt  have  to put anything right.
Ref: DRN80555934my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8055593