K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI)  service  after he claimed  on his 
roadside assistance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background 
Mr A and his partner were  travelling  abroad  when his car broke down.  He called UKI for 
help. UKI did provide  assistance but Mr A encountered numerous issues with UKIs service.  
He said he had to extend his trip abroad  as a result. He complained. UKI upheld  his 
complaint and paid him £500  by way of an apology.
Mr A didn't  think that went far enough  and brought his complaint to us. One of or 
investigators looked into Mr As complaint. She didn't think  UKI had done  enough  to put 
things right. So she said it should  pay Mr A a further  £250 compensation on top of the £500  
UKI had already paid. She also noted  that Mr A had claimed for some expenses  but said that 
wasn't something that hed put to UKI previously. So she referred that to UKI to deal with 
separately. 
Mr A didn't  think our investigator's recommendations went far enough so his complaint's 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it and 
my award will be the same as our investigator recommended.
In bringing this complaint Mr As made many detailed points and I've considered  everything 
hes told us. But in this decision  I will focus on what I see as being the key outstanding 
issues. 
I can see that Mr A was bedevilled  with issues with UKIs service  following his breakdown. 
For example, initially his roadside recovery  was delayed,  Mr A was then asked  to pay a 
recovery fee when  this was something his policy covered. The recovery agents then left his 
broken-down car and trailer at the side of a road outside a garage and not in a secure 
location as he was led to expect. UKI hadnt  booked a hotel for him as promised and he had 
to organise that himself.  He then experienced numerous other issues with UKIs service. 
Amongst other things there was a delay in collecting his car and taking it to a secure 
location, which delayed  him travelling to his destination. There  were  issues  with the hire car 
provided, including that it wasn't insured to travel to the country that Mr A was going to. But 
he didn't find that out until hed already arrived there.  So then he couldn't use the car for a 
couple of days  until the insurance  on the car was sorted out, which  UKI eventually managed 
to arrange with Mr As help. And in the meantime, on numerous occasions, UKI didn't make 
promised calls back and Mr A was ringing it almost every day.
Mr As car wasn't repaired before he was due to travel home. And in those circumstances 
UKI said that it would  have usually arranged for Mr A to fly to the UK, after hed dropped  the 
hire car off. But things  were further  complicated  because Mr A was travelling with his dog. 
This was significant because Mr As policy doesn't cover any additional costs because of 
Ref: DRN83883312pets. And Mr A wasn't happy to arrange for his dog to be flown  home.  So this meant that 
Mr As options for his return journey were limited. But I don't  think  that was because  of 
anything UKI got wrong. And it was Mr As choice not to take the option  of flights home. So I 
don't think  UKI is at fault because  of any additional delays because Mr A didn't wish to take 
that option. And indeed, I can see that UKI extended the period that Mr A had the hire car 
abroad for in order to accommodate his choice. I think that was reasonable in the 
circumstances. But Mr A then experienced further issues  with UKIs service, including that it 
hadnt booked  a suitable taxi to take him and his luggage to the ferry terminal.
So its clear that Mr A was caused some significant  inconvenience and frustration by errors 
and delays on UKIs behalf.  UKI recognised that when it responded to Mr As complaint and 
it paid him £500  by way of an apology. Mr As said that he doesn't think  that a payment by 
way of an apology  is the same  thing as compensation. But I think hes mistaken.  We would 
consider any payment  from a business  by way of redress - that is a payment that is intended  
as a method of making amends for the impact  of things that have gone wrong - amounts to 
compensation. So the fact that UKI said the sum was intended as an apology doesn't mean 
that it's not compensation.  But given the numerous issues Mr A experienced, I don't think 
£500 is enough to address the distress and inconvenience he suffered. So I think UKI should 
increase that sum. I think that £750,  in total,  is a suitable figure. Thats  because  that award  is 
a substantial sum and its similar to awards  we make in cases  of similar  seriousness.
Im aware that Mr A doesn't think that amount  goes  far enough. But I need to be clear  that 
UKI isnt responsible  for everything that went wrong.  For example, it's not UKIs fault that 
Mr A broke-down and that he couldn't take his car with his trailer to his original destination.  
Thats not something Mr As policy covers. So those arent things  that UKI needed to 
address. And as I've said above Im satisfied  that total compensation of £750, including  the 
£500 apology  payment  UKI has already paid to Mr A is reasonable to address his distress  
and inconvenience  in the circumstances. So I think  it's fair that UKI pays  Mr A a further £250 
compensation.
For completeness, Mr A has raised  another complaint concerning expenses and losses  he 
incurred. But as were  considering that complaint under a separate  reference  number those 
arent points  I've looked at when  arriving at this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited  to 
pay Mr A £250 compensation to bring  the total compensation figure to £750 to address his 
distress and inconvenience. It should pay the compensation within 28 days  of us telling it 
that Mr A has accepted  my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it must also pay interest  on 
that amount  from the date of my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2020.
Joe Scott
1 If UKI pays  interest  and considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN83883313ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8388331