K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  fees and charges added to her mortgage account  by 
Santander UK Plc. Miss S also says that Santander  has failed to provide her with adequate 
help and support  or offer her solutions for her financial difficulties. Miss S wants  Santander 
to lower her interest rate and to backdate this to the date when  Miss S says she told 
Santander about her mental health  condition in 2016.
background
Miss S has a mortgage  with Santander  taken  out in April 2011.  She borrowed £165,000  over 
25 years  on a capital and interest repayment  basis. For the first two years the interest rate 
was fixed at 2.99%.  In March 2013  the interest rate reverted to Santanders  Standard 
Variable Rate (SVR), which is currently 4.99%. 
Unfortunately the account fell into arrears in 2013  as a result  of Miss S becoming 
unemployed. Miss S was able to pay the arrears  off in August 2013. She later found  
employment but has been unemployed since 2017.  The mortgage account  is now over 
£9,000 in arrears.
Miss S says that she told Santander in May 2015  that she suffered from a specific condition 
but that Santander did nothing to help her, such as putting her on a reduced  mortgage 
interest rate available for vulnerable customers. 
Santander didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint. It considered that it had explored  the options  
available to customers in Miss Ss situation, but didnt  think  it could do anything  to assist  her 
over and above the temporary arrangements it had agreed. Santander also said that it 
wasnt aware of Miss Ss mental  health  condition in 2016. Santander  says it wasnt aware of 
this until February 2017.
Miss S brought her complaint to us where  it was considered by an adjudicator. She didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. Miss S asked for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I confirm Ive read everything  provided by Miss S and Santander. I trust Miss S wont  
consider it a discourtesy that Ive condensed  the complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an 
informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated  on what I consider to be the main  
issues of the complaint.  Our enabling  legislation allows me to do this.
So although  Ive read and considered the whole file Ive focussed  on what  I think  is relevant 
and material to the outcome of the complaint.  If I dont  comment on any specific  point its not 
because Ive not considered it; rather, its because I dont think  I need to comment on it in 
order to reach the right outcome.  
What I am considering  is whether  or not I think Santander treated Miss S fairly  when she fell 
into financial  difficulty. The Mortgages and Home Finance:  Conduct  of Business Sourcebook 
Ref: DRN86317582(known as MCOB) sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders  are required to do to help borrowers in 
arrears. 
The issue  in this complaint is that, due to circumstances beyond her control,  Miss S finds 
herself in the position where her mortgage  arrears  have  increased and a loss of employment 
which she anticipated being short-term has continued. Miss S is unhappy with the assistance 
Santander has offered  her, which she feels doesnt  take her particular circumstances into 
account. I have  deliberately not referred to the mental health condition  affecting Miss S in 
order to preserve her privacy and anonymity.
Under MCOB 13 Santander is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears  situation, 
especially if the problem  that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-
term and capable of being resolved.
For long-term difficulties, Santander  must also look at other ways to help, such  as 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period  of time or capitalisation of arrears.  Balanced  against that is the lenders 
obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable.  
Santander is also required  to look at how it can help vulnerable customers. In this respect,  
Miss S says she told Santander in May 2015 about a mental  health  condition which brings  
her into the category of a vulnerable customer.
Ive reviewed the account notes and the available telephone calls which Santander has sent 
us. The notes are contemporaneous  that is, they were written at the same  time as the 
calls. Im satisfied that I can rely on these as being  an accurate record of what was 
discussed. And Santander  is entitled to accept  what  Miss S told it as being a true reflection 
of her circumstances.
 Not all calls are available throughout the period from 2015-2018.  There is nothing sinister  
about this. Santander isnt required to retain  all calls.
Although Miss S says Santander  has been  aware since 2015 that she has a mental illness  
that renders her vulnerable, there  is no record of Santander having  been told this until 2017.  
This was in a call on 9 February 2017.  
There is however also a note dated  8 December.2016 which mentions Miss S was suffering 
from an ongoing illness and that she sometimes had to take rest from work, but generally 
was able to manage. Miss S didnt mention her specific illness  but stated that she had a 
biological condition  that flares up from time to time.
The bank acknowledges that it does offer a concessionary interest  rate to vulnerable 
customers, but this is through  its Collections Assist Team (CAT).  I can see from Santanders 
notes on 9 February.2017 a transfer to the CAT was offered to Miss S, but she declined any 
additional support.  A note dated 28 April 2017 shows that Miss S told Santander that her GP 
had declared her fit enough for work  and that she had returned to work. 
The income and expenditure information  taken at the time showed a £97 per month deficit. 
The only forbearance  solution would have been to extend the mortgage term by just over 
five years,  which would  have reduced  monthly payments to about £790.
Ref: DRN86317583Because Miss S declined  assistance from CAT in February 2017, there was no assessment 
of whether or not shed  have qualified for the concessionary rate available for vulnerable 
customers. But as the adjudicator explained to Miss S, any transfer  to a concessionary rate 
would entail taking  out a new product with an early  repayment charge (ERC). And even if 
Miss S took up this option, it would not address the arrears position.
Ive looked at everything Santander has done to engage with Miss S about  her arrears. Im 
satisfied Santander  has complied with its regulatory  obligations under  MCOB. It has staff in 
specialist departments trained to help customers who are vulnerable  but as I noted  above, 
Miss S declined that assistance. Theres been a considerable amount of discussion between 
Miss S and Santander  about the account. 
I think Santander has shown reasonable forbearance. From the information it was given by 
Miss S, the bank was led to believe Miss Ss financial difficulties were short-term.  But I think 
that the available options are now limited. Miss S has explained that she is not in 
employment. So in her current situation  it doesnt  appear Miss S is in a position to make any 
inroads into paying off the arrears.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss S was hoping for. I have considerable sympathy for the 
position she is in, through  no fault of her own. But I have to be fair to both parties.  I think  
Santander has looked at the options its able to offer Miss S in her particular situation.  I think,  
given what Santanders  records  and call recordings show, it acted fairly and reasonably. This 
means that Im not upholding the complaint.
I dont know if Miss S would qualify  for the vulnerable customer products Santander has 
available, because shes not applied for it. But I share the adjudicators  concerns that this 
might not be the most suitable option for her, given  that those products come  with an ERC. 
There is potential,  therefore, for the debt to increase if Miss S has to sell the property, or if 
Santander has no other option but to take possession proceedings and sell it. This would, of 
course, be a last resort  after all other options have been explored.
If shes not already  considered it, I think Miss S might find it helpful  to speak to a specialist 
debt advisor, such as StepChange, Shelter  or Citizens  Advice. We can provide her with 
contact details for those  organisations, if shed  like us to. 
Above all, I encourage Miss S and Santander to continue an open  dialogue  about  her 
circumstances and proposals for repayment  of the arrears, in the hope that a solution  can be 
reached which is to the benefit of all parties.  In this respect, I think  advice from an 
independent debt charity might  be useful in exploring the available  solutions  for Miss Ss 
financial difficulties.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86317584
Ref: DRN8631758