K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr C says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to him with a credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr C has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C says he wasnt told much about PPI and didnt know it had been added to his account. 
Lloyds told us its computer records show Mr C took out his card account  in 1994, which is 
obviously now around 25 years ago. 
I was sent a copy of Mr Cs actual credit  card application form and under a section which  
says PAYMENTS  INSURANCE I can see Mr C was given two choices about the PPI. He 
could either  tick a box to have it  or a box not to have it. Mr C ticked the yes box and he 
signed the form. I think this is strong evidence he agreed to the policy  and would have 
known it wasnt something  he needed to have.
I can also see from copies of his monthly credit  card statements that PPI was being charged  
regularly. I note these  are referred  to on the statements  as Payments  Insurance  Premium 
and the costs were  shown. I think its likely  that if Mr C hadnt agreed  to the PPI he would 
have wanted to know what the charges were  for. 
Lloyds concedes it may have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr Cs situation. I looked  at his 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Mr C was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught  by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  The cost was around £0.59 - £0.79 
per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance on Mr Cs card. Ive seen nothing that suggests 
he would  have found these monthly charges unaffordable  and they are broadly in line with 
similar PPI policies Ive seen from that time.
Mr C told us he already had some sickness protection  with his job and agree  it would  have 
been quite generous. Ive thought carefully  about  this and all his circumstances, and any 
means he might have had at that time. But I havent  seen anything  that necessarily means 
the PPI wasnt suitable  to Mr C. In the event of a successful claim for example, he wouldve 
been able to have his outstanding balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 12 months.  
These benefits were  accessible  in addition to any other means  he already had in place at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN81984212Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr C clear  information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  he was 
told everything he shouldve been told. But for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think  
it was more likely that Mr C didnt  consent  to the policy or there were other serious flaws in 
the way the policy was sold.  I simply dont have that evidence. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  the cost of 
the PPI to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8198421