K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  the amount that Quotemetoday.co.uk Ltd (QMT)  charged him 
after he cancelled his motor trade  policy. 
background
Mr L got a quote  for a policy through QMT.  He was initially going to be the only driver  named 
on the policy but later called  back  to add his brother. QMT  asked Mr L if his brother had any 
claims or convictions in the last five years. And Mr L said he thought  hed been banned for 
doing 30mph in a 20mph  speed limit. QMT recorded this as an SP30.
When the insurer carried out checks, it found out Mr Ls brother had a MS90, which  is a 
failure to declare who was driving. The insurer wanted to charge  Mr L an additional premium. 
But Mr L thought  this was too much. He asked QMT to remove his brother but when it wasnt  
able to do that for the same  price as his original  policy, Mr L decided  to cancel his policy 
instead. 
In working out what Mr L owed, QMT  applied  its own charges and the commission it had lost 
in Mr L cancelling  the policy. This included charging him £60 for an additional  excess 
protection policy, which was non-refundable.  
Mr L thought hed been charged too much and brought  his complaint to us. Our investigator 
didnt think QMT had done enough when selling the policy. And he didnt think  it had made  a 
fair presentation of risk to the insurer on Mr Ls behalf. He asked it to refund all charges and 
commission except the excess  protection policy, as he thought  QMT had properly explained  
that policy to Mr L and hed chosen  to buy it. 
QMT didnt agree. It said Mr L had a duty to provide the correct  information, as set out in its 
terms of business. It said Mr L had confidently provided the incorrect  information and its 
advisor had double checked  Mr L was sure of the answers hed given. It also said it was 
possible to receive  a ban for a one-off speeding offence. As it didnt agree, it asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Insurance Act 2015  Mr L had a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the 
insurer. And as QMT  was acting for him, it also had a duty to do this on his behalf.  
Ive listened to calls where Mr L bought his policy and added  his brother. In the call where he 
discusses his brothers  details QMTs advisor  asked if his brother had any convictions. Mr L 
said he thought  his brother had been banned for speeding. Doing 30mph in a 20mph speed 
limit. The advisor sounded surprised by this and asked if it wasnt for something more  
serious, such as drink driving.  During  the same call Mr L and QMTs advisor discuss whether 
Mr Ls brother is a director of a limited company. The advisor asks Mr L to double check this 
information as he says he needs  to know.
Ref: DRN81054562In a later call QMTs  advisor asks if its corrects that Mr Ls brother has a SP30. Mr L says 
its a speeding  violation. The advisor  asks if hes 100% sure its a SP30 and Mr L says his 
brother was doing 31mph on a 20mph road.  
I appreciate the advisor asked Mr L if he was 100% sure,  but I dont think Mr L said his 
brother had a SP30. I think Mr L answered  the questions he was asked honestly, as he 
thought the conviction  was for a speeding  offence.  It seems to have been the advisor who 
told Mr L the conviction code for what he thought Mr L was explaining.  And I think  the 
advisor double  checking Mr L was sure indicates  that he thought  it would be unusual to 
receive a ban for this.
I understand the terms of business  set out that Mr L is required to provide the correct  
information. But I think the advisor should have done more  to let Mr L know  the importance 
of checking the information he provided  was correct.  As the advisor had asked him to check  
whether his brother  was the director of a limited company, he should also have asked him to 
check the conviction code for his ban. I say this because the advisor  sounded unsure about  
the reason given and as he was asking Mr L to check  other  information,  he should have 
asked him to check this too.  
Had QMTs advisor  done that, I think Mr L would  have checked the information and provided  
the correct conviction code. That means  he would have been given the correct quote for the 
policy and wouldnt have  bought and then cancelled  it. For that reason, I dont think  its fair 
that Mr L pays any of the costs associated with setting up or cancelling the policy, or for 
QMTs lost commission. So, I think QMT should  deduct these amounts from any premium its 
attempting to recover from Mr L.
I also dont think QMT should try to recover the £60 Mr L paid for his excess policy. I say that 
because while I accept  it explained the policy to Mr L and he chose to buy it, he doesnt 
seem to be able to claim on it, as his motor policy was cancelled. So, I think this is a loss 
QMT caused Mr L by not asking him to check the correct conviction code. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Quotemetoday.co.uk  Ltd to not 
apply any administration  fees, cancellation  charges, lost commission  or excess  policy fee to 
the amount its attempting to recover to Mr L.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8105456