K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  a price promise offer made by CIS General Insurance  
Limited in respect  of home insurance.
background
Mr and Mrs M bought a home insurance policy with CIS in July 2018 on the understanding 
that CIS would beat their renewal quote from their current insurer or refund the difference  
plus £1. The offer also included  £50 of food vouchers. 
In order to be eligible  for the offer Mr and Mrs M had to pay the full amount of the premium  to 
CIS for the new policy  and send it the renewal quote from their current insurer.  They did this.
CIS checked Mr and Mrs Ms renewal quote.  Within 24 hours of receiving it, it told Mr and 
Mrs M theyd  be entitled to a refund of £76.84. Mr M asked whether CIS would increase the 
refund if he got a larger discount from his current insurer. CIS says its adviser told Mr M it 
wouldnt because the refund offer only applied to the original renewal quote. But the adviser 
said if his current insurer admitted it had made a mistake with the renewal quote,  CIS would 
review the revised  quote.
Mr M contacted CIS not long afterwards to say hed sent it the wrong renewal  documents.  It 
says its adviser told Mr M to send in the correct documents and it would review them. Mr M 
says he stressed to CIS that he needed a response  quickly as he and Mrs M wanted  to stay 
with their existing insurer  if the revised  quote didnt  qualify  for the offer.  He sent CIS the 
revised quote from his existing insurer.  When Mr M didnt  hear from CIS within 24 hours,  he 
contacted it. CIS said its offer only applied to the original renewal price offered by Mr and 
Mrs Ms existing  insurer and excluded  any discounts or offers negotiated after the original 
renewal.
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with that. Mr M says he understood CIS would pay him the 
difference between  the premium it was charging  and the lower  premium which  his current 
insurer would have  charged. He also expected  CIS to contact him within  24 hours of 
receiving his documents as indicated in its price  promise.  
CIS said it aimed to validate renewal quotations  within 24 hours  of receipt.  But it didnt class 
Mr Ms second set of documents as time critical.
Mr and Mrs M think CIS should have applied  the price guarantee on the difference  in price  
between the premium quoted by CIS and their lower  renewal policy premium rather than the 
original renewal premium. They say theyve now cancelled their policy with CIS and had to 
pay more to get cover with a different insurer.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt  think  CIS had broken the terms of its 
price promise. As Mr and Mrs M didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN89713472In the terms of its offer CIS said that the offer applies  only to the original renewal price 
offered by your existing  insurer, and excludes  any price discounts, offers or negotiated rates 
offered after the original  renewal."
Mr and Mrs Ms original  renewal price was £231.90. This quote  said that the reason for it 
being issued was Renewal.  The second quote  gave a renewal  price  of £193.50 and said 
the reason for it being issued was Policy  Amended. Ive also listened to the calls between  
Mr M and CIS. The adviser Mr M spoke to didnt make any assurances that CIS would 
accept the second quote. They  just said CIS would review any evidence that the original 
quote had been calculated incorrectly. Since theres no evidence  that this was the case, I 
dont think CIS treated  Mr and Mrs M unfairly  in not applying its price guarantee to the 
revised quote.
The terms of the offer also say that to be eligible for the food vouchers the policy must be in 
force for a minimum of 30 days.  Since  Mr and Mrs M cancelled  their policy shortly after 
taking it out, it wasnt  in force for 30 days.  So I dont think CIS has treated them 
unreasonably in saying that they werent  eligible for the food vouchers.
CIS promised to confirm  whether a renewal  quote  was accepted  within 24 hours of receiving 
it. Its system  isnt set up to treat further correspondence within the same timescale. I dont 
think its unreasonable to take slightly longer to respond once a policy  has been put in place. 
In the telephone call with CISs adviser  Mr M told her he needed a response regarding his 
revised quote by 18 July 2018 when the new policy was due to start. He was told that 
shouldnt be a problem.  When  he hadnt  heard by 17 July, he chased  CIS and found out that 
it wouldnt apply the price offer to the revised  quote.  That was only two working days  later.  I 
cant say that he wouldnt  have heard back from CIS within  the timeframe hed requested. So 
Im not persuaded that CIS acted unreasonably  in this respect.
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs M have paid more  for alternative home insurance. But it was their 
decision to let their existing policy lapse on 17 July, cancel their CIS policy and to pay more 
for other cover. I cant fairly hold CIS responsible  for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8971347