K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C, who are represented by a third party, complained to us that 
Corporate Solutions mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 
January 2003.  They  bought the PPI to go with a mortgage. 
background
In September  2014 one of our adjudicators  told Mr and Mrs C and Corporate Solutions that 
she thought Corporate Solutions  was responsible for the sale of the PPI. 
Corporate Solutions said it didnt sell Mr and Mrs C the PPI. Instead,  it said Business A, the 
lender, was responsible for the sale. 
In November 2014 another adjudicator told Mr and Mrs C and Corporate Solutions  that she 
didnt think the policy had been mis-sold. 
In my provisional decision dated  5 April 2019,  I explained why I considered  that 
Corporate Solutions was responsible for the sale of the PPI but that the policy  had not been 
mis-sold. I set out an extract  below:
Is Corporate Solutions responsible for the sale of the PPI?
Based on what Ive seen  so far, Im currently satisfied that Corporate Solutions was 
responsible for the sale of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. Ill explain why. 
 
Ive seen that the Mr and Mrs C bought the PPI at a meeting  with the representative from 
Corporate Solutions on the same day as they applied for their mortgage. 
Corporate Solutions says it cant be held responsible  for selling  the PPI because 
Mr and Mrs C had signed a form to confirm they didnt want  PPI. I understand this happened  
after they had decided not to go ahead with the PPI policy provided by Corporate Solutions. 
Corporate Solutions also says it never sold PPI insurance. Instead, it says that when  
Mr and Mrs C did apply for PPI, they only did so via the lender, Business A  and that the 
application was for the PPI cover provided by the lender. 
But Ive also seen that Mr and Mrs C selected  an option to get PPI cover when submitting 
their mortgage application.  And it looks as if the application was completed with the help of 
the representative form Corporate Solutions.  Also,  so far Ive not seen evidence  to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs C had any communication  with Business A in making  their decision to buy 
its PPI product. 
On the face of it, it therefore appears  that Mr and Mrs C made  their decision to buy PPI at 
around the same time as they made  their decision to go ahead with their mortgage 
application. And given that Corporate  Solutions  helped Mr and Mrs C with their mortgage 
application, it looks to be more likely that Corporate  Solutions is also responsible for selling 
them PPI. 
Im aware that Corporate Solutions doesnt have a record of receiving commission.  But that 
isnt something that necessarily prevents  me from making a finding that it was responsible 
for the sale of the policy. 
Ref: DRN86939232Taking everything into account,  I consider  that Mr and Mrs C received a recommendation 
about taking out the policy  and decided to go ahead  and buy the cover.  The mortgage 
borrowing was arranged  along with the PPI on the same day. And from what  Ive seen, the 
representative from Corporate Solutions  was involved  both aspects  of the sale.  
It follows that I currently agree with our adjudicator that Mr and Mrs C were advised  by 
Corporate Solutions about buying PPI cover  at the same time as Corporate Solutions helped  
them apply for the mortgage borrowing. 
I therefore currently consider Corporate Solutions  is responsible for looking at this PPI 
mis-sale complaint. 
Was the PPI mis-sold?
The insurance market  only became  something we covered  in its own right on 14 January 
2005. We can look at some complaints about  insurance before that date but only if the 
complaint related to something we already covered,  or if the business was member of a 
former complaint scheme.
Corporate Solutions was a member of a former scheme, the Mortgage Code Arbitration 
Scheme (MCAS). So we can look into this complaint, but only in the same way MCAS could. 
MCAS could  only have looked at the below four issues when considering  complaints about  
insurance that was sold alongside a secured loan or mortgage, whether:
A description of any insurance service which we can arrange  (for example, buildings, 
contents, mortgage payment protection and life insurance);
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance be taken out and whose 
responsibility it is to ensure that it is taken out;
Whether it is a condition of the mortgage that such an insurance must be arranged by us;
A general description of any costs, fees or other charges in connection with the 
mortgage which may be payable by you (for example, mortgage valuation  fees,  
arrangement fees and insurance  premiums).
Because Im limited to the four points above,  I can only consider  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint 
that they werent given a choice about  taking the PPI.
 
This sale took place  at a meeting. Theres only limited  information available  about what 
happened during the sale, but thats not surprising given that this took place over 16 years  
ago. But I do know that paperwork was sent in to Business A after Mr and Mrs C had met 
with the representative from Corporate Solutions. The paperwork shows  PPI being selected  
with joint cover. This suggests to me that a discussion must have been had about PPI before 
the selection was made.  So Im satisfied a description of PPI - that it was insurance to 
protect repayments in the event of accident,  sickness, unemployment - was likely given. 
In addition, Ive seen the policy documentation  that I would have expected Mr and Mrs C to 
have received when they took out the cover. 
Ref: DRN86939233Taken together, the sale documentation  shows  the lending wasnt conditional on the policy 
being taken out. And I think Mr and Mrs C were given enough information  about  the cover  to 
have a general idea about its cost. I therefore dont think theres  enough to suggest  that 
Corporate Solutions breached the mortgage code.
In order to find there had been a mis-sale, and that thered been a breach  of the Mortgage 
Code, I would need to see evidence that Mr and Mrs C were  explicitly  told they had to have  
the policy when  they didnt. Having  carefully  considered the evidence available,  including  
what Mr and Mrs C have told us, Im not persuaded such a breach occurred, so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
developments
The third party representing Mr and Mrs C confirmed that it had sent a copy  of my 
provisional decision to Mr and Mrs C. It did not provide us with any further information or 
evidence. 
Corporate Solutions confirmed that it had received my provisional decision. It referred me 
again to the information  about the PPI provided to Mr and Mrs C by their lender, Business  A. 
On this, Mr and Mrs C had made  a note to show theyd applied  for PPI. 
It also referred me back to the information  provided  by the representative  from 
Corporate Solutions at the time about the sale. The representative said they had offered 
Mr and Mrs C advice about  PPI but and they had signed a form to say they didnt want the 
PPI product  provided  by Corporate  Solutions. 
I can confirm that Ive already considered all this information when preparing  my provisional 
decision and setting  out my reasons as to why I consider Corporate Solutions to be 
responsible for the sale. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Given that neither  party  has given me any new information or evidence to consider  aside 
from that which Corporate Solutions has referred me back to  I wont  be revisiting the 
finding I made in my provisional decision.  
It follows that I still consider Corporate  Solutions to be responsible  for the sale of PPI to 
Mr and Mrs C but I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Corporate  Solutions  is responsible for this PPI sale, but the policy 
was not mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Michael Goldberg
Ref: DRN86939234ombudsman
Ref: DRN8693923