K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 1999 that 
was increased in 2002 when Mr and Mrs B moved home. Mr and Mrs B applied  for the PPI 
at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr B was the only person covered by the PPI so I have mainly  considered  his circumstances 
at the time the policy was sold in 1999, and when the benefit was increased in 2002.
Mr and Mrs B originally  took the PPI in 1999.  Santander had to make Mr and Mrs B aware 
the PPI was optional and gain their consent  before  adding the policy to their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us that they were led to believe they had to take the policy to get 
approved for the mortgage. I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mr and Mrs B applied  
for their mortgage and the PPI but Santander  have  sent me a copy of the available 
paperwork. The paperwork shows that PPI was selected during the application process,  and 
I think this decision is likely to have been  made  during  a conversation  Mr and Mrs B had with 
a Santander representative. So with this in mind I think Santander made Mr and Mrs B 
aware the PPI was optional and they chose to have it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr B has told us that at the time the policy was sold to him in 1999  he would have been 
entitled to sick pay and had savings. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Mr Bs 
sick pay, and for longer than he would  have received full pay. It would also have protected  
his savings so they could  be used  towards  any other expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Bs circumstances at the time he took the policy  in 1999 he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. So I think it was right for him.
Which means I dont think the policy was mis-sold  to Mr and Mrs B in 1999.
Santander has told us that it doesnt consider the increase in cover  in 2002 to be a separate  
sale. I have thought about this but I think its likely Santander would have had some  
involvement when  Mr and Mrs B increase the benefit, considering  Mr and Mrs B was taking 
Ref: DRN84154902out a mortgage with it at the time, that the policy covered. So I think the increase in cover  
should be considered a separate sale.
Mr B has told us that he was diagnosed with a medical condition  in 2001  before  Mr and 
Mrs B moved house in 2002 and increased  the cover on their PPI.
Whether the increase in PPI was recommended to Mr and Mrs B or not Santander still had 
to make sure it gave Mr and Mrs B clear enough  information about the policy  for them to 
make an informed choice  about whether or not take it.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think Mr B would have been  able to make a successful  
claim for the increased benefit  amount, for the condition he has told us about. I think Mr B 
wouldve seen the condition as a likely reason he might want to make a claim under  the 
policy. I dont think Mr B wouldve increased the cover the policy  provided  if hed understood 
that he wouldnt be able to claim for it. So I think Mr and Mrs B lost out because of what 
Santander did wrong.
So for the reasons given above  I uphold this part Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
the additional cover in 2002. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the additional  amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
Santander also got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs B about that. Because Santander didnt  tell Mr 
and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander should pay back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  for the original policy  taken out in 1999  until the policy  
was cancelled. Not including  the amount paid for the increased premium  from 2002 that as I 
explained above should be refunded in full.
Santander should add simple interest to each  payment from when they paid it until they get it 
back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN84154903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8415490