K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly  refused to pay a claim 
on his motor insurance policy after his lease car was stolen.
In bringing this complaint Mr H has been  helped by a representative.  But for ease of reading  
Ill refer to the representatives  comments as being  those of Mr H.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background
Mr H ordered a car from a lease  company.  Around a week before he was due to receive it he 
insured it with Calpe.  He gave the cars registration number beginning with W. Shortly  after 
he received information from the lease company indicating that his cars registration  was 
different and would  begin  with G. Mr H contacted  Calpe and told it about the change in 
registration. Calpe updated the policy details showing the registration starting with G. The 
premium didn't change  and all the other  details  remained the same. But when the car was 
delivered it had the original registration beginning with W.
Around seven  weeks later,  in January 2019, Mr Hs car was stolen. He reported  it to the 
police and claimed from Calpe. He told it the car which was stolen was W. Calpe said that 
it didn't insure  W; it insured G. And as it didn't cover W it refused to pay Mr Hs claim. It 
also cancelled his policy, presumably because he didn't have an insurable  interest  in G so 
the policy was of no use to him.
Mr H didn't think Calpe had refused his claim fairly and brought his complaint to us. I issued 
a provisional decision  on 7 July 2020. For ease I've copied my provisional findings below. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it. 
When Mr H was looking to insure  his car he provided Calpe with its accurate make, model, 
and specifications.  And Calpe offered Mr H a policy for a premium based  on the risk of a car 
with those specifications. When it did so, it accepted that there was a risk that it might  need 
to settle a claim for the theft of a car with those  specifications  in line with the policys terms 
and conditions.
Mr H then phoned Calpe to say that the cars registration had changed but that all the other 
details were correct. Calpe updated  the policy without any change in premium. So it seems it 
accepted that the change in registration plate didn't affect the change in risk, because  if the 
risk had changed Calpe would have  charged  a different premium to reflect  that change in 
risk.
When the car was delivered the registration was the original registration W and not G, 
which is what Mr Hs policy  details now showed. So I can understand why Calpe, initially  at 
least, said that it didn't cover the stolen car, W, because the registration it thought it 
covered was for G. But that doesn't mean it was fair for Calpe to turn down Mr Hs claim.
Its now apparent that the lease company were mistaken if they told Mr H that the 
registration had changed from W to G. So when he received the car Mr H should have 
Ref: DRN87581252told Calpe  to change  the cover details back to W. But its apparent he didn't do that. So, on 
first consideration it would seem that any mistake was Mr Hs not Calpes. But after the theft 
it also became clear that the actual car with registration G (that was owned by someone  
else), while being  the same make as W was a different model and specification. And that 
means that it would  have  presented a different risk - and therefore a different premium  - to 
the car Mr H paid to insure. 
I accept that a cars registration is, generally,  considered to be its individual identifier, but in 
this case its apparent the actual car G, wasn't  the same model  as the car Mr H had 
insured. But W was. So the car that was stolen  was identical in every way - save for the 
registration plate  - to the car Calpe thought  it had insured. Also,  I note that Calpe identified 
that someone else had insured the car with registration G. So theres no suggestion that 
Mr H had an insurable interest in G. And while Calpe had accepted a premium to cover G 
its unlikely it would  ever have been  asked  to pay an actual  claim associated  with G as it 
was correctly insured  on a different  policy.
It follows that while I can understand the registration recorded  on Mr Hs policy  documents  
were incorrect, the remaining details of the risk that Calpe had accepted to cover were  the 
same. In other words, Calpe had accepted  to cover the risks for W and in the specific 
circumstances of this case the only difference in terms of potential risk was posed by 
different characters on a registration plate. And, as can be seen when Mr H asked Calpe to 
change the registration to G initially, that didn't  result in a change of risk or change of 
premium. So changing it back to W similarly  wouldn't have presented a change of risk. It 
follows that, as I think that Calpe accepted  to cover the risk equivalent  to that posed  by W 
when Mr H insured his car Calpe should  settle the claim for Ws theft subject to the 
remaining terms, conditions and excess applicable  to the policy. 
Also Im aware  that the lease company  will have required Mr H to continue to pay his lease 
payments after the car was stolen. That wouldn't have been the case  had Calpe settled the 
claim promptly. So to put things right, Calpe should refund to Mr H the additional  lease 
payments he made from February 2019  that he wouldn't otherwise have had to pay. Calpe 
should add simple interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the dates Mr H made 
those payments to the date it refunds him. 
I think its worth noting that at the point Calpe  cancelled Mr Hs policy  he hadn't paid the full 
annual premium. And I would generally  say that where an insurer settles a claim against  a 
policy then the full premium would be due. But in this case as Calpe cancelled  Mr Hs policy 
he had to take out another  policy to insure  his replacement car. He wouldn't  have had to do 
that if the policy had remained in place  as he could have simply added the new car on his 
Calpe policy (subject  to any change in premium  the replacement car required).  So as Mr H 
had to buy a second policy and didn't get the benefit  of the full term of the Calpe policy I 
don't think  it's fair to make  him pay any outstanding premium.
For completeness, Ill add that when Mr H changed  the cover  details  from W to G Calpe 
did warn him that incorrect  details  could lead to a claim  being refused. But for the reasons  
given above, I don't think that would be fair in the specific circumstances of this case.
Similarly, I'm aware that Mr H did have a responsibility to check  that the details on his policy 
documents were  accurate. Mr H has said that he didn't ever receive the amended  policy 
documents showing cover amended to G. But I've seen evidence  that those  were  sent to 
him, so I can't hold Calpe responsible if he didn't receive them. But whether Mr H received 
those documents  or not doesnt change the fact that Calpe accepted  a risk equivalent to that 
Ref: DRN87581253for W and Mr H paid a premium to cover  that risk - albeit with an amended registration. So I 
think Calpe  should  settle the claim. 
developments 
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.  Calpe said it would reimburse Mr H for extra lease 
payments subject to him providing supporting documentation. It added that it would need to 
investigate the theft claim in the normal way. And that Mr H would need to cooperate with 
that. It said that as this is a high value claim this might  take some  weeks.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my provisional decision 
remains unchanged.
Calpe said that it would  need  to investigate the claim in the normal  way. And given that my 
provisional decision was that Calpe should  settle  the claim subject to the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy I think that's reasonable. Similarly, it said Mr H would need  to 
provide supporting documentation to validate  the additional lease payments that hes made. 
I also think thats reasonable  in the circumstances.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. On receipt of the appropriate 
supporting documentation I require Calpe  Insurance Company Limited to settle Mr Hs claim 
for his stolen  lease  car subject to the remaining terms, conditions and excess of his policy.  It 
should also refund to Mr H the additional  lease payments  he made on the car from 
February 2019 onwards. It should  add simple interest to that refund at a rate of 8% a year 
from the dates Mr H made those payments to the date it refunds him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8758125