K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that the fees and charges applicable  to their endowment policy  
have meant  it has matured with a shortfall.  They are also unhappy The Royal London  Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited  didnt carry out policy reviews in accordance  with the policy 
booklet and they werent  advised to increase  their premiums.  
background
Mr and Mrs B were  sold a unit linked endowment policy for repaying their mortgage in 1993  
by the then Abbey National.  The policy was set up with a target sum assured of £24,405  and 
was invested 50% into the Managed fund and 50% into the With Profits fund. It matured in 
2018 at just under £16,000, short of the target amount by several  thousand pounds.
Mr and Mrs B complained about the fees and charges, amongst other  things, and that the 
increase over time meant the policy was never going to achieve  the target amount required. 
Royal London didnt  uphold their complaint. It explained the fees and charges were  known  at 
outset and taken  into account when determining  the premium and sum assured. It said had 
the policy performed  as hoped (which it hadnt) the target sum assured would have been 
met. 
Mr and Mrs B asked  us to look into their concerns. Our investigator concluded there  was no 
requirement for an adviser  to provide in depth  explanations about the charges when the 
policy was sold  they just need to be made aware  there were charges.  The investigator was 
satisfied this was done as the information  was set out in the policy  booklet.  He also 
concluded that life cover costs increased over time because of increased in risk and that     
Mr and Mrs Bs comparison  with life cover now wasnt like for like. 
Although Mr and Mrs B largely  accepted  the outcome, they disagreed  with the investigators 
view about the life cover charges and said policy reviews hadnt happened  as they should.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
I understand Mr and Mrs B are unhappy  their policy has fallen short  of the target sum it was 
set up for. But since the late nineties  investment returns have been much  lower than was 
anticipated when  this policy was arranged. 
The policy booklet  explained the cost of life cover was met by cancelling units.  It also 
explained that the amount  would  vary each month depending on certain factors  such as age, 
sex and the difference between the value of the fund compared  to the death sum assured. It 
follows from this that the older Mr and Mrs B became  the higher the cost of the life cover.  But 
that was something  that was factored in when the policy was originally arranged.  
What wasnt anticipated  was the lower  than projected levels of growth for the policy. 
Because investment returns were lower  than anticipated the value of the policy was also 
lower. This in turn meant the cost of life cover was higher  as the difference between the 
value of the policy and the death  sum assured was greater and so the potential sum Royal  
London would need to meet was greater.  
Ref: DRN85073032Mr and Mrs B have  said they have looked  at quotes for life cover and they are much lower  
than the cost in their endowment policy. But its not clear Mr and Mrs B are comparing like 
for like. This policy is an endowment policy set up in 1993. That comes with the fees and 
charges associated with managing an investment as well as providing life cover.  A term 
assurance policy doesnt have an investment element and so wont have the same level of 
fees or charges applied to it. 
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy policy reviews werent carried out in accordance with the 
policy terms and they werent advised to increase premiums. The policy booklet set out that 
reviews would be carried out on the tenth  anniversary and every five years after that. Its not 
clear if those reviews were conducted.  But what I can see is that Mr and Mrs B were sent 
projections letters regularly from 2000 onwards (before the tenth anniversary), warning  of the 
high risk of their policy not reaching the target  sum. One of the options  given  in the letters  
was to vary the terms of the endowment,  which included paying  additional  premiums.  Im not 
aware Mr and Mrs B took any action  in response to those warnings, so I dont find they 
would have done anything differently on receipt of the reviews. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8507303