K821x#15complaint
Mr D and Miss R complain about  Total Mortgage  Network Limiteds  (TMN)  handling  of a 
mortgage application.
background
Mr D and Miss R had arranged a mortgage  with TMN in 2015. When they did this they paid a 
lifetime fee of £1995 to TMN. In 2017 they wanted to change  the mortgage arrangements 
and so contacted TMN to do this.
TMN arranged a mortgage  with  lender, B. But the process to complete the application took 
over 7 months from when  Mr D and Miss R first contacted TMN. 
Mr D and Miss R complained to TMN about how long this had taken. They  said theyd had to 
pay much  higher mortgage repayments  than they would with the new mortgage for longer 
than they should. TMN said it hadnt  done  anything wrong, and that the application was 
complex and that some  of the delays  were caused  by B. Mr D and Miss R brought their 
complaint to this service  as they were  unhappy  with TMNs  response. 
Our investigator thought that some  of the delays in the application process were caused by 
TMN. But she didnt think the whole  7 months the application had taken could be attributed  
to TMN. She thought  two months of the delays were  its fault,  and so asked TMN  to pay  the 
difference between  what  Mr D and Miss R had been paying on their old mortgage  and what  
they were now paying for two months. She also said TMN  should  pay £250  in compensation. 
TMN accepted this, but Mr D and Miss R didnt. They thought TMN  should  repay  the 
equivalent of four months difference in their payments. And they wanted the lifetime fee to 
be refunded. Theyve asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres an acceptance on both Mr D and Miss R, and TMNs part that the process of 
arranging this mortgage took longer than it should have. So I need  to decide what, if any, of 
this delay can be attributed  to TMN.
TMN acknowledged Mr D and Miss Rs request for assistance in arranging  a new mortgage  
for their property on the same day that they contacted TMN.  But there  was no further contact 
from TMN before Mr D sent a further email 10 days later. The evidence is that TMN  and Mr 
D spoke on that day but its not clear what efforts TMN had been making to locate suitable  
products for Mr D and Miss R in that 10 day period,  or what  work  it had done to establish the 
costs and terms of available products for them.
As a general rule, wed normally expect a mortgage  application to take between six weeks  
and three  months,  depending on a number of factors, including the complexity of the 
application. While there were complexities in Mr D and Miss Rs application,  in relation to the 
ownership of the property  and the way the mortgage was going to be funded,  it wasnt so 
complex, in my opinion,  as to mean that the application would take seven months  if there 
were no delays. And I think its fair for Mr D and Miss R to believe that using TMN  to arrange 
Ref: DRN88359962the mortgage would mean  that the complexities could be managed and the application  
processed effectively and expeditiously.
After further exchanges with Mr D and Miss R, TMN identified  that a mortgage with B may be 
appropriate for Mr D and Miss R. By then a further  12 days had elapsed,  and a mortgage 
product identified by Mr D in his initial  contact  with TMN three  weeks  earlier,  with a different 
lender, was no longer available. I havent  seen any evidence  from TMN  showing their efforts  
to secure that mortgage product for Mr D and Miss R. 
So I think a period of over three  weeks elapsed after the initial contact from Mr D and Miss R 
before a suitable product  was identified for them by TMN. It hasnt shown why it took this 
long, and I dont  think its shown it was keeping Mr D and Miss R updated about its efforts. 
Any contact  with Mr D and Miss R was as a result of them  contacting TMN. 
From the time when  the mortgage product with B was identified as the most suitable  for 
Mr D and Miss R, I can see that there  was regular contact between Mr D and Miss R and 
TMN, and TMN  and B. In essence, B was requesting further information which  TMN often 
had to obtain from Mr D and Miss R. But it seems  to me that there was a lack of urgency in 
the way TMN dealt  with this. On occasion, several  days would elapse between  information 
being requested  by B and this being communicated to Mr D and Miss R. And it would often 
be Mr D and Miss R contacting TMN to ask for updates, rather than TMN pro-actively 
updating them on what was happening with the application.
As Ive said,  wed normally expect a mortgage  application to take up to three months to be 
completed. In Mr D and Miss Rs case, it took around seven months.  But while  Ive said that 
TMN could have done better and processed  the application with less delays, Im not 
persuaded that the whole  four months  extra can be attributed to its actions, or inactions. But 
I do think that if it had acted more quickly when it was receiving contact  from Mr D and Miss 
R, and B, the application would likely have been completed two months sooner than it 
actually was. As the application was finally completed on 30 May 2018,  Im saying it could 
have been completed by 30 March  2018, if TMN hadnt delayed it unnecessarily.
Mr D and Miss R have  shown that the monthly  payments  on the previous mortgage were 
£494.24 more  than their new payments. And so it follows that if the new mortgage 
application had been completed two months earlier,  theyd have saved  £988.48, this amount 
being the equivalent of two months difference in their mortgage  payments. As theyve paid 
that amount,  and Ive said TMN was responsible for the delay of this length, TMN should pay 
this amount to them. And because theyve been  without access  to those funds, it should add 
8% interest simple per year from 30 March 2018 until the date of settlement. 
Mr D and Miss R also argue that the £1995 lifetime fee should be refunded, in full because 
of TMNs errors. I cant agree with this. I can see why theyd ask for this but would say that 
theyve had the benefit of TMNs services  for two mortgage applications, and can continue  to 
use TMN in the future for applications when the mortgage is due for review. Mr Ds recently 
made reference to wanting to contact TMN to discuss  the mortgage review  in recent 
correspondence with our service. I dont  think it would  be fair to ask TMN to refund this fee 
while allowing  Mr D and Miss R to continue  benefitting from the services  it paid the fee for. 
But I do think TMN  should pay additional compensation to Mr D and Miss R in addition to the 
mortgage payment  differences, to recognise  the inconvenience caused  to them. The 
application was unnecessarily delayed  and they were regularly contacting TMN  to ask for 
Ref: DRN88359963updates, rather  than TMN  updating  them. I think £250 additional compensation is suitable in 
the circumstances.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint. To put things right,  I order  Total  Mortgage  
Network Limited to:
Pay £988.48 to Mr D and Miss R.
Pay 8% interest simple per year on this amount from 30 March 2018  to the date of 
settlement.
Pay £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8835996