K821x#15complaint
Miss P has complained  about  the loans she took out through MYJAR  Limited  trading as 
MYJAR (MYJAR). She says the loans  were not affordable.  
Background
Miss P took four loans  from MYJAR  between September  2015 and December 2015.  A 
summary of Miss Ps borrowing is shown below:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmountInstalments Highest  
repayment
1 14/09/2015 29/09/2015 £100 1 £112.80
2 29/09/2015 19/10/2015 £100 1 £116.00
3 19/10/2015 01/12/2015 £100 1 £128.00
4 01/12/2015 27/06/2016 £100 1 £127.20
The adjudicator concluded from the information that MYJAR had, that it had become 
apparent that by loan 4 Miss P more likely than not would have struggled to make  her 
repayments.
MYJAR didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions  for loan 4. So as both parties are still not 
in agreement, the complaint has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.  If 
Miss P accepts my findings it will be legally binding on both parties. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss P could repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks  could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN80133062refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Miss P could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
MYJAR needed to do more when it approved loan 1-3. This was early on in the lending 
relationship between the two parties and the loan repayments for each one of these loans 
seemed affordable based on what Miss P had told MYJAR. So I dont think  MYJAR  was 
wrong to give these 3 loans to Miss P.
However I dont think MYJAR  carried out proportionate checks  for loan 4. Had it done so, I 
think MYJAR would  most likely have made a different lending decision.  By loan 4 there were 
clear signs  that Miss P was struggling to repay  her loans. I say this because:
This was Miss Ps 4th loan in only 3 months. She was repeatedly asking for a loan on the 
same day that she was repaying  her previous one. This shows me that she was most  
likely unable to repay previous  loans without taking  out a new one and was borrowing 
again to fill a gap in her finances. 
Miss P had been late in repaying  loan 3 by 8 days incurring late fees and default interest. 
This should have  indicated  to MYJAR  that she was struggling to meet  her repayment  
and that she would have problems with paying  any loans going forward.  
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 for the reasons given and MYJAR  should put 
things right as set out below.
Putting things right
Refund all interest  and charges (including  late fees and default  interest) Miss P paid 
on loan 4;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Ref: DRN80133063Remove any negative  information about loan 4 from Miss Ps credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Miss P 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Miss Ps complaint. I require MYJAR Limited 
trading as MYJAR to put things right for Miss P as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8013306