K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain, on behalf of their limited  company that I will refer to as H, that their 
claim for malicious damage was declined by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs P had an insurance policy with RSA for the property owned by their business, H. 
The property consists of six flats which are occupied by private tenants. 
In February 2017  Mr P discovered the basement of the building had been broken into. There  
had been damage to a pipe causing  a water leak as well as paint thrown all over the room.  
Mr P used the basement to store  a number of items which were also damaged. This 
included kitchen worktops and units,  a pool filter and a milkshake maker amongst  other  
items. Mr P, on behalf of H, made  a claim under the malicious damage section of the policy  
for the items.
RSA accepted the claim for the incident but declined the claim for items stored in the 
basement. It gave three reasons for the declination. It said the pool filter and the milkshake  
maker werent intended  for use at the insured  property,  so wouldnt be covered. Further, it 
said all the items appeared to belong to Mr P rather than H so there was not an insurable 
interest. Finally it said Mr P had prejudiced  the claim by destroying the items before it was 
settled.
Mr P was unhappy with this. He said all the items were intended for use in the flats, with the 
exception of the pool filter. He explained that he was planning to refit all the kitchens  in the 
flats which  is why he had the units. He had also planned to sell milkshakes from the 
premises before realising this wouldnt be feasible.  Further, he said as a director of H 
anything purchased in his name for the property belonged  to H, so they were insurable 
interests. Finally he said he had agreed  that he would dispose of the items with RSAs loss 
adjuster as he had had to move them outside while  the basement was cleaned  and they had 
become a health and safety  risk. He made a complaint to RSA.
RSA didnt uphold  his complaint. It said it wasnt satisfied the items were intended for use in 
the flats. It said on speaking to the tenants they hadnt been aware of any upcoming kitchen 
renovations. And they furnished  the flats themselves so items that were stored in the 
basement such as a toaster and a microwave wouldnt be required for the flats. RSA also 
said that there was no evidence  to suggest that its loss adjuster had agreed that Mr P could 
dispose of the items. 
Mr P disagreed with this assessment  and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended Mr Ps complaint was upheld.  
She said Mr P had provided enough proof that he bought  a number of the items on behalf of 
H. She recommended that RSA pay the claim based on items  that Mr P has provided proof 
of purchase for and were likely to be used for the property. This didnt include the milkshake  
maker or kitchen units. She also said RSA should  reimburse Mr P for the cleaning of the 
basement.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigator. He said the kitchen units were intended for use in the 
flats so should also be covered. He also said that he had advised the broker  about the 
Ref: DRN86370532milkshake maker and asked that it was included on the policy,  so it should be covered. He 
also said that as well as the cost of cleaning he has also had to pay for a plumber and 
carpenter to put the damage  right so this should  be included  as well. He asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman. 
After the complaint came to me, I contacted both Mr P and RSA with my provisional findings 
as follows:
I said I was minded to require RSA to:
Pay the claim for all items  with the exception of the kitchen worktops and units and 
the milkshake maker.
Pay for the cleaning of the basement.
Pay for the plumbing required at the non-emergency rate.
Pay for the carpentry  costs.
Both Mr P and RSA have  come back with additional  comments which I have considered  
when making my final decision and included in my findings below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P and RSA are in dispute about  which items, damaged in the insured incident, should be 
covered by the policy. It states in the policy under the Landlords  contents  section, as 
follows:
Furniture, carpets (other than fitted  carpets), furnishings and all other Property owned by 
You or for which You are responsible within  the Buildings
Where you is defined  as the policy holder  in this case H. So I agree that items will only be 
covered by the policy if they are intended  for use at the property insured and owned by H. 
Any items that were  intended for personal use by Mr P wouldnt present an insurable  interest  
so wouldnt be covered. 
On this basis, I have considered each of the contested items  in turn to decide if they should 
be fairly covered  under the policy.
Milkshake maker
Mr P has said that the milkshake maker stored in the basement  was originally intended for 
use in the property. The machine is an industrial unit which would  not usually be stored  in 
tenanted flats.   
Mr P has explained that he intended to use the machine to sell milkshakes from the property. 
But has since decided this idea wouldnt be feasible. I have not seen any evidence  to 
persuade me this was the intended purpose  of the item. However,  if I were  to accept this as 
the intended use, the idea was decided  not to be feasible. So I cant  say the intended  use of 
the item was for use at the insured property even on accepting  the explanation.
Ref: DRN86370533I therefore think RSA has acted fairly by declining cover for the milkshake  maker  under the 
policy. Mr P has accepted this finding.
Kitchen units
In the provisional  outcome that I provided  to both sides, I concluded that it was most likely 
that the kitchen  units were  not intended  to be fitted  in the flats in the property. I came to this 
outcome because, when questioned,  tenants were not aware of an imminent re-fit. I said that 
if kitchens in the flats were to be re-fitted  I would  have expected kitchen fitters to attend flats 
in order to measure  up the spaces. This would require tenants  knowledge  of access to their 
homes. And for tenants to be aware  of upcoming disruption of the refit. 
Mr P responded to this and said that the reason tenants werent  aware of the upcoming refits  
was because he provides six month contracts, so some would not be living  in the flats by the 
time the fitters were booked. So, they hadnt  been notified. 
He also provided  a letter from the managing agent  of the property confirming that they had 
provided measurements of the kitchens of two flats for the refit. Further  they said some  flats 
have been empty and only two were required to be measured up, as the layouts dont vary 
between the flats. So they had been able to access flats without any disruption  to tenants.
I put this evidence to RSA to ask for further comments  but it didnt provide anything  further.
I have considered this and as the managing agent  has confirmed they were asked for 
measurements of the kitchens, I think it is likely  that Mr P was intending to refit the kitchens. 
And therefore the units and worktops stored in the basement were intended for use at the 
property. Further Mr Ps explanation regarding his tenants short-term  contracts, explains 
why they may not have been aware of the re-fits. 
For these reasons I am satisfied that the kitchen units and worktops  were  intended for use at 
the property and should therefore be covered under the policy.  So I will require RSA to 
provide cover for this part of the claim.
Other items  of contents
Mr P has also claimed for other items that were  stored in the basement.  He has said that all 
were intended  for use in the rented flats, should  tenants request them.  
I have considered the list provided by Mr P. I accept that some  items would be commonly 
provided by landlords.  This includes items  such  as a microwave  and a toaster. However 
there are items on the list that I dont agree fall into this category. These include a water 
cooler and a computer  monitor.  Therefore I think its likely that some items were  intended  for 
use at the property but some were being stored  for other purposes. As it will be difficult to 
prove the intended purpose of each  item,  I think RSA should provide cover for 50% of the 
cost of the items claimed  for  excluding the kitchen units  (which  should be paid in full as 
above), milkshake  maker  and pool filter. 
RSA has said that it doesnt  agree this is fair. It said Mr P has disposed of the items  so it can 
no longer make a fair assessment. It has said it thinks a fair resolution is to pay 50% of the 
cost of items  that could reasonably be used in the flats. 
Ref: DRN86370534I dont agree that its fair to decrease  the amount  paid in the claim because  Mr P disposed  of 
the items.  Mr P says he was directed by RSA to dispose of the items, but as RSA hasnt 
been able to provide a recording of this call it isnt possible  to be certain of the advice given. 
However, Mr P has provided  photos  of the damage items. He has also provided  proof  of 
purchase for a large number of them  and proof  of price  where  this hasnt been possible. I 
therefore dont  think that the fact he disposed of the items should prejudice his position. As I 
think the evidence  he has provided is enough  to prove he has suffered the loss. 
As I have said previously,  I think determining the intended uses of each item will be difficult  
so I dont agree that RSAs suggested approach  is fair. I therefore will require RSA to pay 
50% of the cost of the items claimed for, once  the milkshake maker, kitchen units and pool 
filter are removed.
Plumbing, carpentry and cleaning.
Mr P has paid for a plumber, carpenter and cleaner to rectify damage  caused by the break 
in. RSA has queried some of the costs of these services. As RSA has accepted the incident  
is covered by the policy, I therefore think the cost of repairing and rectifying the damage  
caused should be also be covered under the policy. And RSA hasnt  disputed  that some of 
the cost should be covered. 
Mr P has provided invoices for this work. However RSA has said the prices are higher than it 
would expect. For example it has queried  the plumber charging an emergency rate for a 
non-emergency service.  I agree that the fact the plumber charged an emergency rate but 
didnt attend immediately seems unfair. However as Mr P has provided  proof  that this is what  
he paid, I dont think it would be fair to penalise him for the plumber charging extra. 
I therefore think its fair for these services to be covered under the policy.  And will require 
RSA to cover the cost of the plumber, carpenter  and cleaner based  on the invoices provided 
by Mr P.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Pay H the full cost of the kitchen  units and worktops.
Pay 50% of the cost of all other items  of contents claimed for, excluding the milkshake 
maker and pool filter,  at the costs provided by Mr P.
Pay for the cost of plumbing,  cleaning and carpentry services following the incident, 
based on receipts provided  by Mr P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, on behalf  of 
H, to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8637053