K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Countrywide Principal Services Limited wrongly  recommended level 
term life insurance and Payment Protection  Insurance (PPI) in 2005,  given he already had 
sufficient existing cover. He felt his answers were manipulated by the advisor  and he was led 
to believe his mortgage application would be refused  if he didn't take the policy.
background
An investigator at this service felt his complaint should be partly  upheld.
He was satisfied  that the PPI policy  which would pay Mr H £1,000 a month for a year in the 
event of him becoming  unemployed   was a reasonable recommendation. He did not think 
Mr Hs circumstances would render him ineligible for this money  if he became unemployed 
at some point (one of the common drawbacks of PPI policies sold in the past) and felt it 
could prove  a valuable provision given  his new mortgage commitment. He also didnt believe 
there was sufficient evidence to conclude that Countrywides advisor had implied  this was 
compulsory or a condition of the mortgage.
Re the life insurance, he noted that Mr H was about  to take out a new £144,000 repayment  
mortgage over a 25-year  term and that  according to the advisor he currently  had £125,000 
of insurance cover. The advisor recommended he took out an additional  £25,000 life cover  
policy to cover his alleged shortfall.
He said that while Countrywide now claimed  this was simply additional general protection 
this was not consistent with what the advisor had recorded at the time.  On balance, he was 
satisfied that the policy  was designed to cover  the alleged shortfall.
Therefore, he felt the correct recommendation would have been to take out a £19,000 
decreasing term policy  i.e. one which matched his missing mortgage protection.  He said that 
Countrywide should compare the cost of such a policy and refund the difference  in 
premiums, adding 8% simple interest to the difference  from the date each premium  was 
paid.
Countrywide disagreed  with the investigators view but did not explain why it didnt accept a 
£19,000 decreasing term policy would have  been sufficient. Instead it repeated that Mr H 
would have been left without sufficient  cover for his mortgage hence  the recommendation of 
a level term £25,000  policy.
Mr H did not reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons.
Firstly, I should explain  that there  are several  common reasons why PPI complaints are 
often upheld (either by the business or this service). Customers  were sometimes unaware  
they were buying  the product or were  led to believe it was an integral  part of the purchase.  
Ref: DRN87231852Also, many customers such as self-employed  or short-term contract people would never 
have been eligible to make a claim. None of these arise in Mr Hs case.
The investigator laid out in detail why he was satisfied this was a reasonable 
recommendation. As I agree  with his explanation, I wont  repeat these here.  I would add that 
while Mr H had a generous benefits  package  via his employer I dont accept that this made 
specific mortgage protection unsuitable, particularly as this package could not be guaranteed  
to still be in place  throughout the 25-year mortgage.
According to the advisors notes Mr Hs mortgage shortfall was only £19,000 and his 
mortgage was a repayment  one i.e. the debt would reduce. So a £19,000 decreasing  term 
policy would have fully met this shortfall. Countrywide has not explained why it doesnt 
accept this and appears  now to accept the recommendation was for mortgage  protection.
If, however,  it still believes that the additional  cover  was for general protection  I confirm that I 
have seen no persuasive to conclude that the advisor  made this clear or that Mr H wanted  
such additional cover.
I therefore agree that Countrywide  should  calculate the comparative cost of premiums on a 
£19,000 decreasing term policy and pay Mr H the difference between  the premiums  he did 
pay and those on such a policy. It should  also add 8% simple  interest  per annum to each 
premium difference  from the date each premium  was paid to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.  
It will also need to reconstruct Mr Hs policy going forward  accordingly i.e. issue a new or 
amended policy reflecting  the sum assured such a policy would now cover and continuing to 
decrease till the end of the original term. Mr H is, of course,  entitled  simply to cancel his 
current policy without charge.
my final decision
I instruct Countrywide Principal Services Limited to pay compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8723185