K822xcomplaint
Mrs E complains that a car she acquired  under  a hire purchase  agreement (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  (BMWFS) wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. She 
would like the car to be repaired.
background 
In July 2017 Mrs E acquired a nearly  new car under a four year HPA with BMWFS. The 
car was around 10 months old and had only travelled a few miles.
In December  2017 Mrs E was experiencing problems with the clutch as it was tight on 
changing gear and the car would  shake when driven  at over 30mph. She contacted 
the dealership  and made arrangements to take the car in.
Unfortunately a few days before the car was to be booked in it broke  down and Mrs E had 
to call out roadside assistance.  The car was taken  to the dealership  where it was stripped 
down and inspected. The dealership found that the clutch  plate was worn to the metal and 
the flywheel had been damaged. The dealership took photographs  of the damaged  parts 
and sent them to the manufacturer to see if the repairs  would fall under the warranty.
The manufacturer declined to cover the repairs as it said the damage was due to wear  
and tear caused by Mrs Es driving  style. For this reason  it said the warranty didnt cover 
the damaged  clutch and flywheel.
Mrs E was unhappy  at the dealerships response and complained to BMWFS. She said 
she had only driven around 5000 miles in the car and disagreed it was her driving  that 
caused the damage to the clutch. Mrs E said the clutch had a manufacturing fault and so 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. As BMWFS wasnt able to resolve her complaint within eight 
weeks it told Mrs E she could complain to this service.
Mrs E complained to us. BMWFS then arranged to have the car independently  inspected. 
The independent engineer said that the clutch friction plate had completely disintegrated 
and concluded  that this was due to driver misuse as there had been  no signs  of mechanical 
failure. In light of the independent engineers report our adjudicator didnt recommend     
Mrs Es complaint should be upheld.
Mrs E disagreed with our adjudicators opinion. She arranged  for the photographs of the 
clutch to be looked at by a third engineer  who said that in his opinion  the damage to the 
clutch arose from an inherent fault and not from Mrs Es driving style. Mrs E also said that 
an employee of the dealership had been  with her when she test drove the car and hadnt 
raised any issues with her driving, and that her other  car was now driven by her husband 
who hadnt found any problems with the clutch in that car. 
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me. I gave an initial view along 
the following  lines.
As the car had been acquired  through a HPA with BMWFS then it was BMWFS who was 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Id seen two different 
opinions from engineers about  whether the problem with the cars clutch was inherent or 
due to wear and tear. So the issue for me to decide was what the most likely cause of the 
damage had been.
Ref: DRN88845872I appreciated that as Mrs E acquired  a virtually  new car it was reasonable that shed  
have expected the car to be free from faults.  And she said that having driven so few 
miles the clutch shouldnt  have worn as it did.
Looking first at the report prepared by the engineer  instructed  by BMWFS, I was satisfied 
that they were  independent as they were employed by a vehicle inspection company and 
had no connection  to either BMWFS or the dealership.  This engineer  saw the car at the 
dealership and after the gearbox  and clutch had been removed. After physically inspecting  
the parts the engineer  said that there was  no sign of mechanical failure or breakage and 
that in his opinion the clutch had been worn out due to driver misuse.
The independent engineer set out his qualifications  in his report and Id seen he has 
undertaken a number  of courses to receive accreditations  to inspect vehicles.
Mrs E also arranged  for the car to be inspected. This engineer said that the dealership 
wouldnt allow him to physically examine the car and so instead his view was based  on 
the photographs of the damaged parts taken and supplied by the dealership.
I didnt know how Mrs E knew the engineer she approached so I cant have the same 
confidence in his independence as I could in the engineer instructed by BMWFS. Mrs Es 
engineer said in his opinion the disintegration of the clutch  disc was the result of product 
failure. He said that when  a clutch breaks down due to wear  and tear the clutch  disc 
remained intact as this was a gradual  process whether it was caused by time or driving  
style. He also said that he has experienced Mrs Es driving personally.
Mrs Es engineer also set out his qualifications  which showed that although  experienced he 
wasnt as qualified as the independent engineer.
 
Looking at these two reports, on balance I preferred the report prepared  by the engineer  
arranged by BMWFS as I was satisfied  he was independent and qualified to reach the 
opinion that he had about the clutch. Hed also reached his opinion after he saw and 
handled the parts.
I also appreciated Mrs E says her other car hasnt suffered the same  problem, but I 
understood this was a heavy car and it may be that was a factor  in how the wear to the 
clutch disc arose. So Id concluded  on balance  that the damage  to the clutch  was the result 
of the driver misuse and not an inherent mechanical fault. Therefore, I didnt have any 
evidence that car wasnt of satisfactory  quality  at the point of sale.
This complaint had taken many months and Id seen  that there  was a delay in arranging  an 
independent inspection of the car which was crucial to the decision,  especially as this 
problem arose within  Mrs Es first six months of having the car. Mrs E said she has 
struggled to pay both the monthly payments  for the car and cover  additional travel costs. I 
thought this matter  shouldve been  sorted out much  faster and this had been to Mrs Es 
detriment.
BMWFS didnt  issue a final decision letter and only arranged  for the car to be inspected 
once this service was involved. I thought  BMWFSs  handling of Mrs Es complaint had 
caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience  and that it was fair and reasonable to 
require BMWFS to pay her compensation for that.
Ref: DRN88845873I intended to require BMWFS to pay Mrs E £250 compensation for the poor service she 
received when she complained, but I didnt intend  to uphold her complaint regarding  the 
car not being  of suitable  quality.
Mrs E had also raised with us a complaint about the Car Care Plan that was sold to her at 
the time shed acquired the car. BMWFS said this wasnt part of Mrs Es original complaint 
and it would like to look into this as a separate issue. I thought  that was reasonable and so 
I didnt deal with that matter here. If Mrs E should  be unhappy with the decision BMWFS 
reached on that matter then she could always bring  another complaint to us.
BMWFS has accepted  my provisional decision but Mrs E has disagreed. She says that the 
dealership shouldve booked the car in for inspection faster than it did when she raised  the 
problem. She says the delay in getting the car looked at and being advised she was okay to 
keep driving resulted in the damage to the clutch being greater than it shouldve been. She 
also said she was unhappy  that the dealership  didnt  allow  her engineer  to inspect  the car 
and that this together with the delay in arranging  the independent inspection leads her to 
suspect the dealership may not have been  entirely honest in its dealings. Mrs E says it 
wouldve been fair to get a third report as the two engineers didnt agree. She also says she 
doesnt think the independent engineers  report was as clear about  what the damage would 
look like if due to her poor driving,  whereas  her engineers report was fuller and more 
descriptive on this issue.
Mrs E also says that she was misled  about the age of the car and thinks  that the damage 
may have  arisen  because  the car wasnt used for a long period of time.  She also disputes 
that her driving style was the cause  of the damage  as since  the repair there  has been no 
problems.
Finally Mrs E says the compensation isnt sufficient, because if the report had been carried 
out faster she wouldnt have experienced the lengthy delay, extra  costs  and inconvenience  
caused to her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the points made by Mrs E but Im afraid  I havent  changed  my mind  
and I will explain  why.
Firstly, I dont have any evidence that the dealership acted in bad faith,  that is that its 
behaviour was underhand or less than open and honest. I dont think there was an undue 
delay in getting the car booked in for an inspection as at the time Mrs E raised the issue with 
the garage she was still able to drive it. Im not surprised she had to wait for a slot to be 
available and I think that would be the case for most garages. I also dont  think I can hold 
BMWFS responsible for the booking-in  system used by the dealership. 
I dont think any advice  that Mrs E could  keep driving until the appointment date for the 
inspection was reached wouldve led to substantially more  damage being caused.  Ive seen 
that the car broke down  before the appointment date was reached  which  means its more 
likely than not that the damage to the clutch was already extensive by the time Mrs E raised 
the problems she was having with the car  with the dealership.
Ref: DRN88845874I can appreciate Mrs Es frustration that her engineer  wasnt  allowed to inspect the car by the 
dealership but I can also understand  why the dealership may have been reluctant to have an 
unknown engineer look at the car at its premises. The dealership wouldve, at that time, 
been responsible for the car. This was a decision made by the garage so I dont think  I can 
fairly hold BMWFS responsible for any policy the dealership may operate in regards to 
outside engineers inspecting  cars. BMWFS agreed  to have the car independently inspected, 
albeit after some delay,  and I think that was reasonable.
Mrs E disagrees with the weight Ive attached to the independent report. But Im satisfied 
that this engineer was qualified and objective  when making his report.  I still think  the 
independent engineer was the better qualified and his independence was established. I dont 
agree that it was unfair not to seek a third opinion when  Mrs Es engineer disagreed with the 
findings of the independent report. I think there was sufficient evidence  on which I could 
make a fair decision.  I appreciate  Mrs E thinks her engineer was more  detailed in explaining  
why hed reached the conclusions that he had but I thought the independent engineers  
report was clear about what hed seen and the conclusions hed drawn  from that.
Mrs E says she was misled about  the age and condition  of the car. But Ive seen that on the 
hire purchase agreement (signed by Mrs E at the time she acquired the car) the car was 
described as used  and the date of its first registration was given. Mrs E says that the clutch 
may have  corroded  due to standing unused for a period of time.  However,  I have no 
evidence that this type of damage was noted  by either the independent engineer or Mrs Es 
engineer.
There is some discrepancy as to the number of miles the car had been driven at the point of 
sale. The finance  agreement says 10 miles and Mrs E says the mileage was actually 100 
when she took the car. Whichever mileage  is correct it is still, in any event, too low for the 
damage to the clutch to have arisen from another  drivers driving style. I also suspect the car 
wouldnt have had only one driver  in the past.
Mrs E says that since the car has been repaired she has had no further  problems with the 
clutch. She says this shows  her driving  style isnt at fault. However  there could be a number 
of reasons for this such as she has now changed her driving  style.  So I dont think  I can give 
that much  weight in reviewing my initial decision.
I agree  that BMWFS didnt resolve this matter  as quickly  as it should have and that resulted 
in Mrs E suffering unnecessary distress  and inconvenience. However, Im satisfied that the 
car was in a satisfactory condition at the point of sale so in assessing the impact this delay 
has had on Mrs E I still think that compensation of £250 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mrs Es complaint. Im asking BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited to pay Mrs E £250 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its delay in dealing with her complaint. 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date 
on which we tell it Mrs E accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
Ref: DRN88845875interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8884587