K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her three packaged bank 
accounts between  2003 and 2006. 
Miss G paid monthly fees for the packaged accounts and received several potential benefits 
in return. Lloyds has accepted that it mis-sold one of these accounts and has offered Miss G 
a partial refund as compensation.
Miss G thinks that Lloyds should refund  her all the fees she paid for all the accounts, plus 
interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Miss Gs complaint and thought that Lloyds  
had treated her fairly. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds should  offer her any 
more money back. 
Miss G didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman  to review 
her case.  So it has come  to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Miss Gs case.  Ive looked 
into everything that Miss G and Lloyds have told us or sent us about it, and Ive decided not 
to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Miss G has banked  with Lloyds for quite a while. Lloyds has sent us some  information from 
her account  history,  which I believe to be reliable. It shows that: 
Miss G opened a fee-free account in 1992.
By September  2001,  Miss Gs account was still fee free and Lloyds  had branded it as 
a Classic account.
In July 2003, Lloyds sold Miss G a packaged  account called a Select account for 
which she paid a fee.
In November 2004, Lloyds sold Miss G another packaged account called a Platinum 
account, for which it charged a higher fee than for the Select account.
In November 2006, Lloyds sold Miss G another packaged account called a Premier  
account, for which it charged a higher fee than for the Platinum account. 
Miss G and Lloyds have both told us that Lloyds recommended  that she should buy each 
account during  face-to face meetings in one of its branches. This meant that on every 
occasion Lloyds  should have checked  that each  new account was a reasonable match  for 
Miss Gs financial situation and needs;  and told her about the accounts costs  and benefits  
Ref: DRN80744312clearly and fairly so she could decide  for herself  if she wanted buy it, or keep her fee-free (or 
other) account.
Miss G has raised similar points about the way Lloyds sold each account  to her. In outline, 
she has told us that: 
(Apart from basic banking),  all she wanted from her account was to be able to pay 
bills by direct  debit.
Lloyds never told her she could have  an account  which  would give her the above 
service with no fee.
She didnt realise that Lloyds was selling  her packaged accounts,  all it talked to her 
about was the benefits  she could get. 
However, to make sure I havent missed anything  I have  considered  each occasion 
independently.
As there are no detailed  records  from any of the discussions,  I cant  tell for sure what took 
place. Instead,  I have used the evidence that I do have available  to work out what  is most  
likely to have happened. I have also looked  at Miss Gs financial circumstances to see if 
Lloyds behaved  reasonably when  it recommended  each account to her.
the Select account  (July 2003)
Miss G seems  to have been  slightly less concerned about the way Lloyds  sold this 
account to her than about the Platinum  or Premier accounts. For example, when 
talking about the way Lloyds sold the later accounts, she has told us it never said she 
could have carried  on with the Select  account.  But I have still considered her 
complaint about  this account in full.
By July 2003, Miss G had held her fee-free account for around ten years. Lloyds  has 
checked its records, which show that during this time she used its free direct debit 
service. I believe that its records on this are probably reliable, and I havent seen 
anything to make me think that it told Miss G it was withdrawing her fee-free account, 
or was going  to stop her using its direct debit service  without charge. So it seems  to 
me that Lloyds had already told Miss G she could have direct  debits with a fee-free 
account. I dont  think  it did anything to stop her keeping this account or tell her she 
had to change. 
 
In July 2003, the main potential benefits  of the Select account included car breakdown 
cover and insurance for mobile  phones. At that time, I understand that Miss G drove  a 
car and she seems to have had a potential need for breakdown cover.  So I think it 
was reasonable  for Lloyds to recommend the Select  account  to her. 
Given Miss Gs own comments, I also think its highly  likely  that Lloyds told her about 
the benefits of the account.  Similarly, as Miss G seems to have known the account 
wasnt free, I also think Lloyds probably told her about the fees.
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Select  account to Miss G. 
Ref: DRN80744313the Platinum account (November  2004) 
Lloyds has agreed  that it mis-sold this account to Miss G. So in fairness to her, I have 
assumed it was a mis-sale, and have checked if the compensation  Lloyds offered was 
reasonable. 
Lloyds has told us that it no longer thinks the Platinum account was an appropriate 
choice for Miss G. It has said that it now considers the main benefits  Miss G needed in 
November 2004  were car breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance and travel 
insurance. It has told us that all these were  available from another account, called a 
Gold account, which was cheaper than the Platinum account.
So Lloyds now thinks it should have recommended the Gold account  to Miss G, rather 
than the Platinum account. And before Miss G complained to us, it offered to refund 
her the difference in cost between what she actually paid for the Platinum account  and 
what she would have  paid for the Gold account,  and to add interest.  It seems  to have 
made a small deduction (just over £5) for some  savings Miss G made on an overdraft  
by having the Platinum  account rather than the Gold account, but I think  this deduction 
was reasonable.  I understand  that it paid the relevant amount to Miss G during April or 
May 2019. 
I have seen some of Lloyds records from 2004 and they note that it mainly  
recommended Miss G change to the Platinum account from the Select  account  
because of the travel insurance; and because it offered  better car breakdown cover 
than the Select account. Miss G has told us that she travelled internationally from 
time-to-time and Lloyds  has also sent us evidence  about some of her journeys from 
her account  record. So I can see that she probably did have a need for travel  
insurance.
The travel insurance with the Platinum account  would cover  a family, whereas that 
which came  with the Gold account  would only cover Miss G herself. However I 
understand that Miss G usually travelled on her own, so I agree with Lloyds that she 
probably needed the level of cover that the Gold account would have given. Similarly, 
I think she probably still needed car breakdown  cover,  although not necessarily the 
better service the Platinum account could  offer. 
So I accept  Lloyds position that although it was wrong to recommend the Platinum 
account, it would have been  reasonable to recommend the Gold account. Had it done 
so, I think Miss G would  probably have  accepted  its recommendation. 
Notwithstanding Lloyds mistake with the recommendation, I think  that it probably also 
gave Miss G a choice to keep her Select account  (or return to a fee-free account).
In the circumstances, I think Lloyds offer to refund Miss G the difference  between  the 
cost of the Gold and Platinum  accounts was fair.
the Premier account  (November 2006)
In addition to her general points, Miss G has also told us that Lloyds upgraded (her) 
again in 2006 to a premier account without even telling (her). She has mentioned that 
a new bank card just arrived through the post. 
Ref: DRN80744314However, one of the benefits of this account was home emergency insurance  and 
Lloyds has pointed out that Miss G made  a claim on this insurance, (which  Miss G 
accepts), so it seems to me that Lloyds probably discussed the account with her in a 
similar way to the conversations about the Select and Platinum accounts.  
As Miss G made a claim on the home emergency cover, it seems reasonable to 
conclude that she had a potential need  for this type of cover  and I understand that this 
need existed in 2006. 
The Premier account also offered most of the other benefits of the Platinum account, 
and I believe Miss G still had a need  for some of them. Indeed,  she seems to have 
used the car breakdown service quite  frequently and also to have registered some 
mobile phones  for the insurance  cover. So Im satisfied that Lloyds probably told 
Miss G about these benefits and I think it was reasonable for it to recommend  the 
Premier account to her. 
For similar reasons  as with the Select and Platinum accounts, I also think Lloyds 
probably gave  Miss G a choice about  this account and told her about the fees. 
Miss G has also told us that she held a similar home emergency policy to the one that 
came with the Premier account with another insurer. Shes said that she never  
cancelled the direct debit for the premiums  for that policy, and so may have had 
duplicate cover. I dont  know  a great  deal about  the other policy, what it covered, 
when or how Miss G bought it, or to what extent the two policies may have overlapped 
each other.  However,  in this particular case,  I think Lloyds told Miss G enough about 
the Premier account  for her to decide  what to do about the two policies. 
I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Premier  account  to Miss G. 
So in summary,  I accept that Lloyds may not have got everything right for Miss G on each 
occasion, but I dont think  it mis-sold the Select or Premier accounts  to her, and Im satisfied 
that it offered  her fair compensation  for the mistake it made  with the Platinum account. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Miss Gs complaint about 
Lloyds Bank  Plc. I am not going to tell it to increase the offer it has already made. And as I 
understand that it has already paid this offer, it doesnt need  to do anything  further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 July 2020.  
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8074431