K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 November 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
I asked both parties to respond to me by 13 December 2018.
Mr and Mrs M got in touch, responding and to also request an extension  to obtain some  
further information. 
I agreed to the request and both Mr and Mrs M and their representative were informed that a 
further deadline was set of 13 January 2019.  I asked that either Mr and Mrs M or their 
representative get in touch before then with any further information  or if there was any 
problem in meeting  this deadline.
The deadline  has now passed  and I havent heard anything further from Mr and Mrs M or 
their representative.
And Halifax hasnt responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Ms initial response  to my provisional decision. Having reviewed 
what they have  said, my opinion still remains the same. Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the 
limited evidence available in their case and that they were told the sale took place over the 
phone (when it didnt), had already  been dealt with within my provisional decision. Having 
reviewed their further comments my opinion on these two points remains the same as I set 
out within my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
Also, as neither Mr and Mrs M or their representative have responded to the later deadline  I 
set out further  to my provisional  decision,  I see no reason in delaying issuing my final 
decision. 
So I now confirm the findings as set out in my provisional decision.
I would also like to add that I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M requested  a deadline as they 
sought to try and obtain some evidence of Mr Ms employee benefits.  I can only assume,  as I 
havent heard anything  within the deadline or as I havent received a request for a further  
extension, that Mr and Mrs M were  unable to obtain  the information  they wanted.  
Ref: DRN82916172I know that Mr M felt strongly  about his employee  benefits at the time the policy  was taken. 
But without evidence of the level of sick pay he received and based on what I know of 
employee benefits across  a variety of industries, coupled with the length  of time that Mr M 
had been employed; I still remain of the opinion that it is unlikely that he would have received 
12 months full sick pay. 
The PPI potentially covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. And as Mrs M wasnt  working  at the time of sale  
meaning Mr M was solely responsible for meeting the mortgage repayments   I cant  fairly 
say that the advisers recommendation was wrong  or unreasonable.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, the PPI policy  wasnt  
mis-sold  so Bank  of Scotland plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy  
to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82916173Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold  them  a mortgage 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy when they applied for a mortgage in November  1998. The policy 
was in Mr Ms name only. It covered him if he was unable  to work  because of an accident or sickness.  
It also covered Mr M if he lost his job. Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.  
Based on the information I have so far, Im not intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Initially Halifax  said to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI policy  was sold over the phone.  Mr and Mrs M 
based a lot of their complaint points that the policy was sold on this basis.  
Halifax subsequently said that this was an error. And it has said that the PPI policy was actually sold 
in branch. 
I appreciate in complaining to Halifax about being mis-sold PPI, it is frustrating  to be told the PPI was 
sold over the phone only for it to transpire that it was actually sold in branch. Halifax has told this 
service that it is sorry for its error and for any confusion and inconvenience it has caused 
Mr and Mrs M.  
From what I know  of how Halifax sold these policies in 1998, and having seen mortgage applications  
from around this time,  consumers had to actively choose PPI from their mortgage application form.  
There was a heading called  Accident, sickness and unemployment insurance and a consumer was 
required to tick to confirm  theyd like to take advantage of Mortgage Repayment Insurance. Had a 
consumer not wanted  the policy, then they wouldnt  have ticked or signed  this box and the PPI 
wouldnt have been added. If a consumer  ticked or signed to say they wanted PPI then they would 
have had to go on to complete a separate PPI application form.  
Halifax hasnt been able to provide all of the paperwork Mr and Mrs M completed at the time of the 
sale. So I havent seen  a copy of the mortgage application that they signed. But Halifax has provided  
a copy of the separate  Mortgage Repayments Insurance Application form that Mr M needed  to 
complete if PPI had been chosen. This form has been completed with Mr Ms information   such  as 
address and date of birth and it also sets out the monthly benefit required (£550) at a monthly cost of 
£27.83. Mr M has signed this PPI application form to confirm the information  is correct. So Im 
satisfied that the PPI was likely discussed and decisions  were made around who would be covered  by 
the PPI with Mr and Mrs M, but understandably, they might not remember this now  so many years 
later. 
Ref: DRN82916174I also note that this form states that the policy was sold in branch   and it lists the branch where the 
sale took place and the advisers name who sold the PPI. So the sale likely  took place in branch and 
Halifax made a mistake  in saying that the policy  was sold over the phone. And I think that Halifaxs 
apology for its oversight  is genuine and nothing further needs  to happen in respect of its error.
Overall, taking into account the paperwork Ive seen, I think  it is likely that Halifax made  Mr and Mrs M 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI. And they chose to take it, in Mr Ms name  only, to 
protect their mortgage  repayments  if Mr M was unable  to work.  
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr M, and our adjudicator thought  that Halifaxs recommendation  
seems to have been right for Mr M considering  his circumstances.
 
Mr M disagreed. He says that as he received 12 months sick pay from his employer if he was unable 
to work  because of an accident or sickness he didnt need the PPI. His employee  benefits provided  
him cover for the same  duration  as the PPI paid out. So Mr M said while the policy  did offer benefits 
he could have  taken  advantage of, given the benefits he already received,  the PPI (while  an added  
extra) was not necessary  and Mr M remained  of the opinion that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought that as the PPI would  have  paid out on top of any employee  benefits Mr M 
received, the PPI was still of use. And also they considered that if Mr Ms employment circumstances 
changed then it would still have been of use to him. So taking everything into account they thought, 
considering how much  the policy cost and the benefit it could provide,  the PPI was still useful in Mr 
Ms circumstances. 
Ive carefully considered whether I think that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr M. Having done  so, I 
am provisionally minded  to say it was  but for different  reasons to our adjudicator. Ill explain my 
reasoning. 
If Mr M received 12 months full sick pay, then while what our adjudicator said about  the PPI policy  
and the benefits the PPI provided  had some merit (especially if Mr M was to lose his job), I would  
disagree with their findings. And this is because if Mr M was unable  to work  because  of an accident or 
sickness then his employee  benefits would have provided  his full wage for up to 12 months  and I 
dont think he would have  needed the policy.
But after careful consideration, I think it is unlikely  that Mr M would  have received  the level of sick pay 
he says he received. From  what  I know and have seen of employee benefits across a variety of 
industries, and given the length of time that Mr M had been employed I think  it is unlikely  that he 
would have received 12 months full sick pay at the time he applied  for the policy.   
So I think that its more likely, based on what I have  so far, that the policy  would have been of use to 
Mr M given that it potentially covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment. I also have to bear in mind  that Mrs M wasnt working at the 
time of sale  so Mr M was solely  responsible  for meeting the mortgage repayments.  And considering 
a mortgage is a long term financial commitment with serious consequences if repayments arent met, 
I cant  fairly say, at this stage,  that the advisers recommendation was wrong or unreasonable.  
If Mr M, in response to this provisional decision, can provide detailed testimony about his sick pay 
and/or evidence  that he received 12 months full sick pay at the time he was sold the PPI policy, then I 
would reconsider what he provides before  issuing a final decision. 
The monthly  cost of the policy alongside the benefit it would provide was shown on the Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance Application that Mr M signed. So I think  Mr M would have reasonably been 
aware of how much he and Mrs M would need to pay for the PPI and what  benefit  it provided. 
Ref: DRN82916175Its possible Halifax didnt  point  out the main things the policy didnt cover such as pre-existing 
medical conditions for example. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those 
things. So I dont think better information on this would have  changed Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take 
out the policy  for Mr M.   
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M.
But Halifax has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs M about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not currently planning on upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
I am provisionally minded  to say the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not 
have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland  plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand it has already  done this, so I provisionally dont award any further compensation. 
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 13 December  2018. I will then consider 
anything further that anyone sends me and issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8291617