K820x#14complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has proposed to repair some 
patio doors  at her property damaged during a burglary. She has said her home insurance 
policy should provide her with a replacement door.
background
L&G appointed a window and door specialist to attend Mrs Ms property to inspect the 
damage. The expert said the damage to the patio doors was repairable. It proposed  to 
straighten the damaged  aluminium and sand,  prime  and repaint the door, to put Mrs M back  
in the position she was in before  the loss.
But Mrs M had concerns with the repair L&Gs specialist proposed. She said she had spoken  
to two independent specialists, who had said repairing the doors would weaken them,  and 
this would pose  a security  risk to her home. So Mrs M didnt agree for the doors to be 
repaired. She felt the patio doors should be replaced. L&G said as it could repair the doors, 
and replacement wasnt needed, it could offer Mrs M a cash settlement of £304 + VAT 
instead. It said this was the amount  it would  have cost it to repair  the doors with its suppliers.
Mrs M didnt  feel this was fair. So, she referred  her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld. She said she 
was more persuaded by the position of L&Gs specialist (that it could repair the doors).  So, 
she said she thought  L&Gs  offer to settle  the claim as above  were reasonable. And, she 
said that £50 L&G had offered Mrs M as compensation for some delays experienced during 
her claim was fair.
Mrs M disagreed  and felt the patio doors should  be replaced. She provided an additional 
report from a third specialist, a surveyor. But this information didnt change our investigators 
opinion.
Because Mrs M didnt  agree this case has been  referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional  decision  to Mrs M and L&G on 3 June 2019.  In this I said;
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending on 
upholding this complaint. Ive explained  why below.
L&G has accepted  Mrs Ms claim.  But, as above,  Mrs M is concerned with how L&G are 
offering to put right the damage to the patio doors. So, Ive needed to think about whether
L&Gs offer in this respect is fair and reasonable.
Having done so, I think it is. Mrs Ms policy explains how L&G will settle claims. It says;
11. Our rights following a claim
We will at our option repair  or replace the property claimed for using  a repair  or replacement 
supplier nominated by us. Where you prefer to use your own tradesman, we will need  to 
Ref: DRN84739192agree this with you beforehand and the amount we will pay you will not exceed what we 
would have paid our own supplier.
Where our supplier can repair or replace,  but you prefer and we agree to a cash  settlement, 
the amount we pay you will not exceed  the discounted amount we would have paid our 
supplier. We will not apply our supplier  discount  where they are unable  to repair or replace 
the property.
Given the above, Im aware L&G is able to choose whether to repair  or replace an item.
L&G has chosen a repair in this case,  because it says it has a supplier who can return  the 
doors to their pre-loss condition. Given the terms of Mrs Ms policy I think it is reasonable for
L&G to attempt to repair the patio doors, if it has a supplier that is confident this can be 
done.
Ive seen the job sheet from when L&Gs specialist  attended  and reviewed the doors. This 
explains it will repair  cosmetic damage to aluminium patio door and it will fit two new locks 
to the door as the keys to the door were taken. And the specialist has provided photos  of 
previous properties  where it has completed the same type of repair   such  as straightening 
an aluminium door. Looking at these photos I can see the repairs  were successful on these 
occasions. So, Im persuaded L&Gs decision to repair the doors is reasonable at this stage.
Mrs M has provided information from three different parties which  she feels show that a 
repair wont be successful, and that the doors need to be replaced instead. Ive reviewed the 
comments of these  specialists. But, I dont think these provide  firm evidence  that a repair  of 
the doors isnt possible.
The information from these specialists says;
its not cost effective to repair the patio doors;
there may be difficulties with a repair because of worn  or obsolete parts of the door;
the aluminium will or will likely  be returned to a reasonable state, but the structural 
integrity of it will be compromised.
Ive thought carefully about these points.  But, as above, L&G has provided evidence  that 
repairs of this nature are regularly successful. And that it is able to repair the doors for a 
lower cost than the quotes Mrs M has provided to repair the door. So this information doesnt  
make a difference to the outcome of Mrs Ms complaint. Im satisfied that under the policy
L&G are able to choose to attempt  a repair in the first instance.
If, following  a repair attempt, the repairs didnt return the doors to their pre-loss condition  I 
would expect L&G to then consider alternative methods of putting  the doors right at that 
stage.
L&G has explained that if Mrs M doesnt  want it to repair the patio doors it will offer her a 
cash settlement instead. It has said this cash settlement would be £304 + VAT, because this 
is what L&Gs supplier would have  charged it to complete  the required repair.  Mrs Ms policy 
does say that if the policyholder doesnt  wish to accept L&Gs chosen method of settlement it 
will offer a cash settlement based  on what the repair would have cost L&G. And it has 
provided me with a quotation showing this is how much the repair  would have cost it. So, Im 
satisfied the cash  settlement  offer L&G has made to Mrs M is fair.
Ref: DRN84739193L&G has offered  Mrs M an amount of £50 compensation  for the trouble and upset  she 
experienced because its expert needed to return  to her property to fix a problem with a cat 
flap on a door at the property that it did need  to replace. I think  this amount of compensation 
is reasonable. I say this because I think it fairly  recognises the inconvenience the contractor 
needing to return  to the property would have caused. So, I dont require L&G to do anything  
more here.
Both parties  received my provisional decision. Mrs M explained she didnt  agree.  And she 
asked whether L&G would be willing to pay for 50% of the cost of replacing the doors. L&G 
said it accepted  the findings in my provisional  decision. And said it wouldnt be able to pay 
50% towards  replacing the doors. Its offer to settle  the claim remained the same   and it said 
it would  only release a VAT payment on sight of a VAT invoice. L&G noted  it had already 
released the £50 compensation payment to Mrs M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint for the same  reasons as detailed in my provisional decision.  
Neither party has raised any comments or further  evidence that alter my decision, or what  I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in this case.   
Mrs M asked  L&G whether it would be willing to offer 50% towards  replacing the patio doors. 
L&G said it wasnt able to do this. Im satisfied this is fair. For the reasons given above I think 
L&Gs offer to repair the doors  or pay Mrs M a cash settlement, based on what  it would 
have cost L&G to repair the doors, is reasonable. And in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. And Im satisfied its fair for L&G to only pay VAT to Mrs M on sight of this being 
paid by her. So, I dont  require it to do anything more.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  to offer anything more than it already has. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473919