K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Aioi Nissay  Dowa Insurance Company of Europe SE unfairly cancelled her motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mrs Ts bought a new motor insurance  policy. A few days after inception, Aioi Nissay  Dowa  
wrote to her requesting a copy of her log book; photographs of her car; written confirmation 
that the vehicle hadnt  been modified or altered; and proof of her no claims discount. It asked 
for this information by 19 June 2018. Unfortunately Mrs T didnt manage to submit  the 
documents in time. So her policy was cancelled.
Mrs T has a number  of concerns about what happened. For example, she feels  Aioi Nissay  
Dowas communications werent  effective. After she became  aware of the problem she 
quickly demonstrated that she could get the information it requested. She thought she had 
14 days to provide any information  required.  And shes  now worried about the consequences 
for her insurance record of having had a policy cancelled.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Mrs T disagreed so her complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint. I think  the 
rationale and conclusions provided by the investigator are sound.  Ill summarise my own 
thoughts.
Ive looked closely  at the terms  and conditions of Mrs Ts policy.  Under section  10 about both 
parties right to cancel  the agreement it says:
We [the intermediary]  may also be authorised by your insurer  to cancel your policy in certain 
circumstances. For example where  there  are serious grounds  to do so (e.g. failure to 
provide requested documents
I dont find this clause  unusual or unclear.
Ive thought about how Aioi Nissay  Dowa tried to communicate its requirements to Mrs T. It 
sent her a letter. It sent her an email. And it sent her a text. Mrs T has told us that her 
husband didnt reveal the crucial detail of the letter when he conveyed  the content to her. 
She says she gets lots of emails and so missed the information request. And the text she 
received didnt have all the information she required to act.
Im not going  to repeat everything the investigator  has already said about these matters  
suffice to say I agree with her findings.  I dont doubt  Mrs T has a busy life. And I dont doubt  
she is genuine when  she says she wasnt aware of the deadline for submitting the required 
documents. But I cant fairly hold Aioi Nissay Dowa responsible for this. I think that by 
attempting three separate  methods of communication with Mrs T, which were clear that 
immediate action was required, its fulfilled its responsibilities in this matter.
Mrs T says she thought she had 14 days to get the information required  to Aioi Nissay 
Dowa. I can see that the terms and conditions do mention a 14 day window. But as the 
Ref: DRN88914202investigator noted, this was in relation to getting  the black box fitted and for notifying it of 
her no claims  bonus.
Mrs T is concerned about her insurance record. But Aioi Nissay Dowa has certain duties to 
record and share information  about  its policies. For example, all insurers  must abide  by 
Department for Transport obligations for the timely and accurate supply of data to the motor  
insurance database. So, as long as any information it supplies to other parties about the 
cancellation of Mrs Ts policy is accurate, then I cant say it will have acted  unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8891420