K821x#15complaint
N, a limited company  complains that Bank of Scotland plc closed its foreign currency  
accounts and converted  the balances into sterling resulting in financial loss.
background
N had operated both a sterling current account and foreign currency  accounts at Bank of 
Scotland since 2008. It contacted a different  financial  business  and asked it to switch its 
current account there. Bank of Scotland made this switch on 31 August  2018.  Bank  of 
Scotland also closed  Ns foreign currency accounts.  It converted  the balance to sterling  and 
sent this money  to the new account  details. N contacted Bank of Scotland  to complain 
saying that it would make a loss when it converted the sterling  amounts back to currency. 
Bank of Scotland initially upheld the complaint  and said it would compensate  N for the loss. 
But when N told it that its loss at 23 November 2018 was over £113,000 it changed its 
position and said it was not responsible for this and should not have had to contact N before 
closing the currency  accounts.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that:
-The letter Bank of Scotland  sent to N about the switch only referred  to the sterling 
current account.
-Only sterling accounts can be switched under the current  account switching scheme  
used here. So he did not think that Bank  of Scotland could say that N wanted its 
currency accounts closed.
-Bank of Scotland ought to have contacted N to tell it that it could not have a currency 
account without  a sterling current account.
-He did not accept that the financial business  that N switched to ought  to have told N 
about the issue. And thats even though the new financial  business terms and 
conditions also required N to have  a current account  before it could have foreign 
currency accounts.
-He recommended Bank of Scotland reopen  the currency accounts, convert the funds 
back to the original currencies and make  up the difference to the amount of currency 
that was in the accounts on 31 August 2018.
Bank of Scotland did not agree. It said N should  have been  aware  it could not have a 
currency account if it did not have a sterling current account under the terms and conditions.  
And if N did not know this it should have contacted Bank of Scotland  before the switch. It 
would also have been prudent for the new financial  business to mention this to N. Bank  of 
Scotland had not made a mistake as N had asked for a full switch. While it might have been  
a good idea to speak  to N that is not part of its process and it did not make  a mistake. It 
cannot simply reopen the currency  accounts now as the investigator recommended. To do 
that N would  have to contact it to open  a sterling  account first and be willing  to transfer all 
the funds back.  It said that it only made  a mistake by accepting liability  and would look to 
provide redress for this.
N made an alternative suggestion of a calculation of loss using the exchange rate on the first 
working day after the switch. And then to work out what the amount in currency would have 
been on that day if the money had been  converted back. N should be paid the difference. N 
went on to say that this took no account  of the impact of the conversion on its hedging  
strategy. It had built up large amounts of currency to help protect  its operating funds against 
exchange rate movements. It had no way of putting  an amount on this impact.
Ref: DRN85119772my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 14 May 2019. I took a different view to our investigator 
about the resolution to the complaint. But I agreed with him about the main principles here. I 
set out below what I said.
In my view the request  by N to switch  its current account did not confirm  anything about the 
currency accounts. N gave no instructions  about  the balances  in the accounts. Clearly it 
would have been helpful if N had contacted  Bank of Scotland  about  its future  requirements.  
All Bank of Scotland received was an automated  request  to transfer  the current account. And 
the letter N received in response from Bank of Scotland about  the switch  did not say what 
would happen  with the currency  accounts.  Bank  of Scotland did not tell N that it was going to 
convert the money  to sterling and send it to the account at the new financial business as a 
result of N being in breach of the terms and conditions.
Had N known this I thought it most likely it would have  arranged to open  foreign currency  
accounts at the new business and transferred the money in the original currencies.  I couldnt  
see any circumstances where  Bank  of Scotland could reasonably have presumed N would 
have wanted the currency converted into sterling, paid into the current  account and then sent 
to the new business as happened here.  
If Bank of Scotland had been able to show that it had tried to contact N about what it 
proposed or had given it notice then I would  have thought that its actions were  reasonable. It 
did not and I didnt think it can rely on saying N ought to have known what  would  happen or 
that the other financial business was responsible for telling  N this. So I did not find Bank of 
Scotland acted  reasonably.
the financial loss
As I understood it N has not converted the money  involved  back to the original currencies 
yet. So any loss has not crystallised. It is my assessment that any loss is made of two 
elements. First there is the loss from the immediate effect of converting the amounts to 
sterling and then back into currency as N wanted  - assuming that both had happened at the 
time of transfer. That is largely the result  of the spread between the buy and sell rates for 
each currency. Second  there is the ongoing impact of any movement in exchange  rates. 
That is what  N says it was hedging  against. And that is what  seems to account  for a 
significant element  of the loss by 23 November 2018. To be clear  the calculation  then was 
based on information that Bank of Scotland asked  N to provide having agreed to uphold  its 
complaint.
I didnt think Bank of Scotland had thought through the implications.  That calculation was an 
open ended  one to the point of settlement. And I needed to make clear to N that this could 
equally have  been a negative figure had sterling  instead appreciated against the other  
currencies during the period. I didnt  see a reasonable  basis for Bank of Scotland to be 
responsible for effectively  providing that hedge and which  would now - based on the opinion  
issued - extend to the date of settlement of the complaint.
And also to be fair that doesnt  seem  to be what N originally asked for and nor is it what is 
has said in response  to the opinion. It wants to be put in the position  it ought to have been 
on the first working day after the transfer  when  it could have converted  the money back  and 
deposited it in currency accounts at the new financial business. To me thats a reasonable 
Ref: DRN85119773request and puts N in the position it ought  to have been in. I thought it was fairly up to N to 
mitigate any currency movements once it knew what had happened.
my resolution
In my provisional view I said Bank  of Scotland should compensate  N as follows:
1)Calculate what the currency amounts in Ns account on the date of closure would 
have been in sterling equivalent using its sell (i.e. lower)  customer  exchange rates  
(not the buy rate)  at close of business  on 3 September 2018. Note: this adjusts for 
the impact of the spread  and allows time for N to react to what  Bank of Scotland had 
done on the next working day.
2)Deduct the amount  of sterling paid to N from the actual conversion of the currency 
amounts on 30 and 31 August 2018 from (1) and pay N the difference.
3)Pay N compensation for the inconvenience caused which I assess  at £500.
This will still be a substantial  sum given the amounts of currency involved. But I thought  that 
it puts N in the position it should  have been  in. And it also crystallises the loss that Bank of 
Scotland can fairly be responsible for. That in my estimate will be broadly in line with the 
financial loss it expected to pay when N first raised  the complaint.
As a response to this complaint I said it would be helpful if Bank  of Scotland could provide 
the required rates and calculation so that it is clear what  the amount payable  to N would be 
on this basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland responded and said it did not think I had taken  sufficient account  of the 
condition requiring N to have a current account in order to operate a currency  account.  And 
that the switch  guarantee said of N that you have given  your consent for us to switch your 
old account which is a qualifying sterling account to your new account. It did not provide any 
calculations.
N did not agree. It said that it held the currency accounts to protect against foreign exchange 
movements and so that it could  predict  the price of items paid for in currency. N accepted 
that currency movement  can just as easily be adverse as favourable.  But N said it did not 
hold currency to make money from movements.  N had suggested  from the outset that Bank  
of Scotland put it back in the position  it ought  to have been in on the first working  day after 
closure. But Bank of Scotland has continually  sought to delay the resolution. It considered 
that my recommendation would not cost Bank of Scotland much more  than the profit it made 
when it converted  the currency.
N said it was disappointed  at the compensation amount  given the time taken chasing Bank 
of Scotland and not having  any response. The directors mention their personal anxiety and 
distress. The award does  not reflect the injustice inflicted  by Bank of Scotland.
I have reconsidered  my findings carefully  in light of these  comments.  I made reference in my 
decision to the breach in the terms and conditions of the account caused by not having a 
sterling account. I set out that it would  have been helpful if N had contacted Bank  of 
Ref: DRN85119774Scotland about its intentions. And I said that if Bank  of Scotland had tried to contact N then 
its actions may have been reasonable. I still now dont  think it was fair otherwise to convert 
these amounts  and with no basis to think thats what N could have wanted - even  taking 
account of the terms and conditions.
I accept that N has taken a balanced approach  to this complaint  and has not sought to ask 
Bank of Scotland for more than its loss on the next working day. As it says that loss is really  
the spread to the market  rate that Bank  of Scotland applies. And the figures  that it insisted N 
provide then built in further currency movements which I didnt  think Bank of Scotland  had 
thought through. I suspect this complaint could have  been resolved  in line with the final 
response letter much earlier if it had.
I did reflect  in my award as well the inconvenience  I thought had been caused  to N. I cant 
take into account the personal impact to the directors  in a complaint from N. And this is not a 
question of adding  up the time thats  been  spent. Ive looked at all the circumstances to 
decide what I think to be fair overall.
In conclusion I remain of the view that the award  I provisionally set out is a reasonable one 
for the reasons Ive given.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc to:
1)Calculate what the currency amounts in Ns account on the date of closure would 
have been in sterling equivalent using its sell (i.e. lower)  customer  exchange rates  
(not the buy rate)  at close of business  on 3 September 2018. 
2)Deduct the amount  of sterling paid to N from the actual conversion of the currency 
amounts on 30 and 31 August 2018 from (1) and pay N the difference.
3)Pay N compensation for the inconvenience caused which I assess  at £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8511977