K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax  (BoS) mis-sold them 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (PPI) alongside  their mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mr and Mrs H applied for a mortgage during a branch  visit. At the same  time they 
also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage repayments in the event they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness of if they became unemployed.
Part of Mr and Mrs Hs overall mortgage protection policy included critical illness and life 
cover elements. But Mr and Mrs H havent  complained about these, so Ill only refer to and 
address the PPI elements  of cover as above  (the policy.)
The policy provided  a benefit of 125% of Mr and Mrs Hs monthly mortgage payment and it 
cost around £27 a month. In the event of a successful claim, it could pay out for up to 24 
months (per claim) for both the accident/sickness  and unemployment  elements of cover.  The 
cover was established on a 50/50  basis  Mr and Mrs H could each  claim for half of the 
policy benefit.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought Mr and Mrs H chose to 
take out PPI and there was nothing  to indicate theyd lost out as a result of taking the policy  
out.
Mr and Mrs H were also told that because their mortgage became a regulated  mortgage  as a 
result of subsequent  changes  made  to it, BoS doesnt need  to refund any of the commission 
Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage  BoS didnt treat them  unfairly in 
relation to non disclosure  of commission.
Mr and Mrs H disagree about the outcome of their mis-sale complaint, so the complaint  
comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
In the early stages of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, BoS said this was a telephone sale before 
changing its view saying  the sale was conducted face to face. I can see Mr and Mrs H were  
unhappy about this and felt BoS changed its mind to suit its defence of their complaint. I 
dont think this was the case  although  I can understand why Mr and Mrs H might have 
thought so. I think it was likely a result  of the limited  information and evidence  available from 
the time,  which I will refer to again below. I think it likely the majority  of mortgage sales  were 
conducted during  branch meetings around  this time.  
Ref: DRN85128442And Im satisfied assuming it was a face to face sale for the purposes  of this complaint  
doesnt disadvantage Mr and Mrs H in any way. Im therefore happy to proceed on the basis 
that Mr and Mrs H took out PPI during  a branch meeting.
BoS says it provided  Mr and Mrs H with advice  and made a recommendation for the cover.  
And Ive seen nothing  to contradict this. This means BoS had to ensure PPI was suitable for 
them in light of their circumstances and needs at the time. And it also had to give them 
enough clear information  about  the policy it was recommending so they could make an 
informed decision about it. Ive kept this in mind in my consideration of the complaint.
did BoS make it clear that Mr and Mrs H had a real choice about  PPI and did they agree to it 
without undue pressure?
I can see Mr and Mrs H have raised some concerns here  they say they were led to believe 
their chances of getting the mortgage were impacted if they didnt take out PPI. And they say 
they felt pressured into taking the policy instead  of being able to shop around.  Mr and Mrs H 
havent expanded on why they felt this way.
BoS hasnt been able to provide  copies of the actual paperwork completed during Mr and 
Mrs Hs meeting when they took out the mortgage and PPI. This is unfortunate but not 
entirely surprising  given how long ago things  happened  BoS doesnt have to keep records 
indefinitely.
But it has provided us with sample  or example copies of the paperwork it says was in use 
when it sold Mr and Mrs H this type of policy in-branch. And these  show  a consumer had to 
indicate on the paperwork whether they wanted  cover. The cost of cover  was also set out 
separately from the mortgage cost itself.
So overall, while I hear what Mr and Mrs H say, weighing up the limited  information I have 
about a meeting that happened  many years ago, Ive not seen enough to support what Mr 
and Mrs H say and that something  different  happened from what BoS example 
documentation shows. This means I dont think Mr and Mrs H were,  more likely than not, told 
or given  the impression- they had to have PPI to be granted the mortgage. On balance,  I 
think they chose  to take out PPI  albeit cover that was recommend to them  knowing they 
didnt have to and without undue pressure  because they were  interested in protecting their 
mortgage.
did BoS properly  advise and inform Mr and Mrs H and was PPI suitable for them?
Because of the limited information available, I dont know whether Mr and Mrs H were  
properly advised  and asked all the necessary questions the adviser reasonably  needed to 
ask to recommend  the policy as being  suitable for them. I can see from BoS  internal records 
that some  questions were  asked  about Mr and Mrs Hs health. But I dont know whether they 
were asked about their existing means  including sick pay and other similar insurance cover 
for example. Nevertheless I think the policy  was ultimately suitable  for Mr and Mrs H, which  I 
will expand on below.
Its also not clear that Mr and Mrs H got all the information they needed about the policy  and 
in a timely manner to make an informed decision about it. For example Ive not got evidence  
to show they were clearly  told the cost or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of 
cover were  sufficiently drawn  to their attention.
Ref: DRN85128443So I accept  its possible BoS did not do everything it should have when it sold Mr and Mrs H 
PPI.
have Mr and Mrs H suffered a loss? if so, to what extent have they lost out?
While BoS might not have  fairly and reasonably done all that it should, this doesnt  
automatically mean Mr and Mrs H should  get back what they paid for PPI. I need  to go on 
and consider if and to what  extent theyve lost out as a result.
Having done so I dont think they have lost out because I think  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H and I dont think theyd have  been put off taking it out if BoS had 
done more. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs H were eligible  they qualified  for the cover.
both Mr and Mrs H were employed  and in good health, so they wouldnt  have  been  
put off by the significant limitations or exclusions of cover  for example exclusions 
for existing medical conditions. These  exclusions didnt therefore make the policy 
unsuitable for them either.
while I dont know whether the cost of the policy was clearly disclosed  to Mr and Mrs 
H, I find it unlikely they agreed  to take it out without knowing something about  the 
cost. Mr and Mrs H dont appear  to have queried things with BoS, so it must  have 
been agreeable to them and not out of line with their expectations. In any event it 
appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt make the policy unsuitable.
I dont know whether the benefit  of the policy was clearly  disclosed. But given the 
policy was protecting  Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage payment, I dont think  their 
expectations of the policy were  very different to what it actually provided  it may in 
fact have exceeded their expectations because it offered  a benefit of 125% of their 
mortgage payment.  
Mr H says he was entitled to statutory sick pay only and Mrs H initially  said she had 
more than 6 months sick pay but less than 12 months. They also said they had 
savings they could rely on. Mr H subsequently told us that Mrs Hs sick pay was 18 
months in length  12 months full pay followed by 6 months half pay, so she didnt 
need the cover. 
Ive conflicting  information here that I need  to weigh up. On the one hand, given Mrs 
Hs employer, I think it more likely than not offered generous terms. But on the other 
hand I think sick pay entitlement  stretching  to 18 months is far from typical. And in my 
view seems out of place with Mrs Hs job type.  Im also mindful that Mr H provided us 
with this revised information  after the adjudicator gave  their assessment of the 
complaint.
So while I accept Mrs H likely had generous sick pay, I dont think it was quite to the 
extent that we were  latterly told. As such,  I think Mr and Mrs H had a need for cover 
and the policy was suitable for them both. The policy would have paid out alongside 
any sick pay and other  means  - and for up to 24 months if necessary  allowing Mr 
and Mrs H to balance  the demands  on other household expenditure and helping  
them to manage  the consequences if either  of them  found themselves unable  to 
work. The policy split was suitable  given  their similar income levels,  so overall I think 
it would  have played a useful part in protecting their home.
Ref: DRN85128444because the policy was a monthly regular premium policy,  it could have been 
cancelled at any time without penalty,  so offered flexibility if things  changed or Mr 
and Mrs H simply decided they no longer wanted  cover.
Overall  and while  I understand Mr and Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision - I think  
they agreed to take out PPI and did so without undue pressure. I also think the policy  was 
suitable for them given their circumstances and needs at the time.  And because  of this I 
dont think they would  have arrived at a different  decision and declined  the cover  if BoS had 
properly advised  and informed them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs H have not suffered loss as 
a result of taking out PPI alongside their mortgage,  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8512844