K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  about Calpe Insurance Company Limited. She isnt happy that it 
turned down a claim under her car insurance policy.
background
Miss L received a call late at night from the police  to say that her car was involved in an 
accident. The car had crashed, rolled  over and the driver had left the scene. 
Miss L had left the car parked at her partners address (the risk address) as she had returned 
to her parents address  to live. So she wasnt sure of the cars immediate movements before 
the theft as she wasnt residing at the risk address.
It hasnt been  established who was driving  the car at the time of the accident. But it isnt 
disputed that a genuine key was used to drive  the car at the time. 
Miss Ls former partner  and the named driver lived at the risk address where  the car had 
been parked and she had given authority to both of them to drive her car. Unfortunately 
neither has been  traced in order to establish if they were driving the car at the time of the 
accident.
Miss L has been represented by her father who has maintained that the car mustve  been 
stolen. He suggested that the key may have been taken from the risk address at some stage 
by the thief. 
Calpe investigated  the circumstances surrounding the theft but didnt meet the claim.  It said 
that Miss L hadnt  kept the car key safe and said that there wasnt  sufficient evidence  to say 
the car was stolen  or that it hadnt  been  driven  by the named  driver or Miss Ls partner at the 
time of the accident.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss L and her representative  but only partly upheld 
the complaint.  He didnt think that Calpe  had acted unreasonably in declining  the claim. But 
he did feel that it should pay Miss L £200  compensation for the delay in advancing  her claim.
Although Calpe accepted  this, Miss Ls representative didnt. So the matter has been passed 
to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be partly upheld. 
The key issue for me to decide is whether Calpe has acted reasonably  in turning down 
Miss Ls claim. And I will also consider whether Miss L should be awarded compensation for 
the delay in advancing her claim.
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Miss L has found herself. She has been left with 
outstanding debt after Calpe turned down her claim for an expensive  car and she has been 
left in a very difficult position. I understand that Miss Ls partner disappeared owing her 
money as well and I know  all of this has had a significant affect  on her mental health.
Ref: DRN83300592It is clear that Miss L wasnt driving  at the time her car was crashed. But the problem is that it 
isnt clear who was driving and it is quite likely  that it was the named driver or her ex-partner. 
And Miss L clearly gave both men permission  to drive her car. 
I know Miss L and her representative  have suggested that the car has been stolen by a 
person unknown, and it is possible. But I think, on balance, it is more likely that the car was 
being driven by her ex-partner or the named  driver who fled the scene and have 
disappeared. I say this as there is no suggestion that the risk address  has been broken into. 
And as both men lived at the address, had access to the car and key it seems likely that they 
took the car. Calpe and the police would need  to speak  to both these individuals before they 
could establish  if the car was stolen or not. 
Miss L wasnt  sure initially who was driving the car, or if it had been stolen when the police 
first contacted her, but she has since  reported  the theft of the car to the police. And I can see 
that Miss L has provided a crime reference  number  to support this. However, that doesnt  
mean that Calpe has acted unreasonably in turning  down the claim. 
Ultimately, Miss L left the car and keys at the risk address after she moved back  to her 
parents. Miss Ls boyfriend and the named driver  both had access  and permission  to drive 
the car and their whereabouts are unknown. And as a genuine key was used to drive the car 
I cant say that Calpe has acted unreasonably in declining the claim in these circumstances.
Finally, Calpe has agreed that it should pay £200 compensation for the delay in advancing 
the claim and I dont propose  to interfere with this. I think that this is a fair amount of 
compensation for the delay. These types of cases can be drawn out and Calpe was trying to 
fully investigate the circumstances surrounding the theft before deciding if it would pay the 
claim or not.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I partly  uphold this complaint.  I require  Calpe 
Insurance Company Limited  to pay Miss L £200  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8330059