K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy which  he took out with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) alongside  a credit card.
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy in July 1998  when he applied for his credit card through the post.  
The PPI was cancelled  in March 2017.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and ultimately recommended that the mis-sale should 
be upheld due to Mr Ps circumstances at the time of the sale and the requirements  of the 
policy terms and conditions. Barclays didnt  agree  to the recommendation and so the 
complaint was passed to me for consideration. 
I issued my provisional decision in May 2019, in which I set out my conclusions and reasons 
for reaching  them. Below is an excerpt of that document.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Im currently  minded not to uphold Mr Ps complaint  because:
I think Barclays made Mr P aware the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
Ive seen Mr Ps application form and there  was a section regarding  PPI, amongst 
other optional extras.  He had to confirm  whether he wanted  PPI by ticking next to 
Yes or he could have ticked next to the No  box if he didnt want  it. Mr P ticked 
next to the Yes box. 
I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr P. So it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr P got the information  he needed to 
decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But he chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. 
Mr P has said that his job wasnt secure  at the time he took out PPI. However, Mr P 
has since confirmed to us that whilst there were talks of redundancies, no formal 
consultations took place prior to purchasing the PPI. Additionally,  whilst the number 
of employees has decreased, Mr P has said that there were no redundancies as 
people left of their own accord  and were not replaced. 
Barclays isnt able to provide  a copy of the terms and conditions  of Mr Ps actual PPI 
policy. Im not surprised by that as the sale took place over 20 years ago and theres 
no requirement for businesses to keep all records  indefinitely. But I have seen policy 
documents that were in force shortly before Mr P took out PPI and policy documents 
in force  around  18 months  after he took it out. In both policy documents it says claims 
for unemployment wouldnt be paid if at the start date you knew you were going  to be 
made unemployed or you had reason to believe  that it was likely to happen. So I 
think its likely a similar term was in force when Mr P took out PPI.
Ref: DRN88048612Based on what hes said about his circumstances  at the time and the fact that there  
wasnt any formal notification, it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on the PPI cover  I dont  think the evidence  shows Mr P had 
reason to believe he was likely to be made unemployed. So I think the PPI would 
have been useful to him if something went wrong as I dont think he would have 
found it harder  than other consumers to make an unemployment claim. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because : 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell 
Mr P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P has said about  his circumstances at the time. I also 
thought about him saying that every time he made  the minimum payment the PPI payment 
went up with interest,  making it hard to clear  the balance and if he didnt have it, he wouldnt 
have been in so much debt. But these points dont change my decision about the way PPI 
was sold.
In addition, Mr P has also told us he asked Barclays over the telephone  to cancel the PPI, 
but that he was persuaded  to keep it and didnt feel he could get off the telephone unless he 
carried on with the policy. Barclays has said that it has been  unable to locate any previous 
calls with Mr P, but if a call did take place,  the adviser would have followed the call script and 
regulatory guidance. As confirmed by letter to Mr P, Barclays has said the PPI was cancelled  
in March 2017 following a request from him. I havent seen any detail of a request to cancel 
PPI not being  actioned, so I think its most likely that prior to this, Mr P was just persuaded to 
retain the cover as it may benefit him. I havent seen enough evidence to suggest  Mr P 
wasnt able to cancel  his policy even though he wanted to.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I currently dont  think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so 
Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont intend to award further compensation.
I invited both parties to make any further  comments before I made a final decision. Mr Ps 
representative and Barclays have both confirmed they dont  have any further information for 
me to consider.
Ref: DRN88048613my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr P nor Barclays provided any further  evidence or arguments for me to look at, I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Donna Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8804861