K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the time it took TSB Bank  plc to open his Cash Account, following his 
online application. 
background
Mr H applied for the account on 21 March 2018. The application wasnt  approved  
immediately because Mr H needed  to visit a TSB branch with identification and proof  of his 
address. Mr H says he went to a branch on the same day with this information. But TSBs 
records indicate that this information was received from Mr H and certified on 29 March 
2018. The account opened on 4 April 2018, after the Easter bank holiday. 
Mr H says he lost out on money from his clients while waiting for the account to open. And 
his online  banking didnt  work for a period, after the account was opened. Mr H complained  
to TSB in May 2018 about the problems hed faced. But TSB didnt respond to his concerns.   
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with her opinion  and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his case.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where there is a dispute about  whats 
happened, Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence  that is available.  
Having done this, I agree with the outcome  our investigator has reached on this complaint 
and for broadly the same reasons. 
TSB has shown us evidence that it certified Mr Hs identification and proof of address on 29 
March 2018. Both documents are date stamped 29 March. And the documents  say - original 
seen, true likeness of the person and true copy of original. While I have regard for Mr Hs 
recollection that he provided  this information  to TSB on 21 March 2018,  I am not able to 
verify this from the evidence Ive seen. So on balance, I am persuaded it is more likely that 
Mr H supplied TSB with his documentation  on 29 March 2018. The account was open by 4 
April 2018. I am satisfied this was carried out in a reasonable timeframe.  
Mr H was able to use the account from 4 April 2018  for his clients  payments. And he had 
another account with a different bank that he could have used while waiting for TSB to open  
his Cash Account. 
TSB acknowledged that there have been intermittent problems with its online banking  
system. But it says these lasted for hours, rather than days. It also explained and I accept 
that there  are other means available to its customers  to access  their accounts, such as in 
branch, automated teller machines (ATMs) and telephone banking. 
Its disappointing to note that TSB did not respond to Mr Hs concerns when he raised them. 
TSB accepts it may have felt to Mr H that it was ignoring him. But Im not going to require 
TSB to take any action  in relation to this. Thats because all of us suffer  inconvenience  in our 
day to day lives and in our dealings with commercial organisations. Yet in this case,  Ive 
found that TSB opened Mr Hs account in a reasonable  timeframe. And he had access  to 
Ref: DRN87563972other banking facilities.  So while I acknowledge it was frustrating for Mr H not to hear from 
TSB, I dont believe this had an effect  on his overall situation, or that it has a major bearing  
on the outcome  of this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about TSB Bank  plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Paul Phillips 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8756397