K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Henderson Investment Funds Limited should  not have charged him the 
fees it has done, because he didnt have  a financial adviser.
background
Mr D invested in the Henderson Multi  Manager Active Fund  (the fund) since 1991 paying  the 
annual fee Henderson charged for managing  the fund of 1.5%.  In April 2019 Henderson 
wrote to him  and other  customers   informing him that the annual  fee would be reduced 
from 1.5% to 1% going forwards. 
The reason  for the reduction in the fee was because Henderson was creating a new share 
class for the fund for customers who invested  directly with it rather  than through a financial 
adviser. The basis of Mr Ds complaint is that he has never  used a financial adviser  and 
thinks that the reduced fee shouldve been  available from the outset.
Henderson didnt uphold his complaint. In its response to the complaint it explained that 
previously the standard fee on investments included payment to financial advisers which 
applied whether or not an adviser  was registered  on an account.  It said the historical fees 
that Mr D has paid are correct as they were the standard fee for the share  class  that was 
available to clients. Henderson said recent rule changes made by the industry  regulator,  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, meant it could move investments without an adviser to a new E 
share class.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
said that Henderson  didnt  need to provide a separate share class previously for those 
without advisers as there was no requirement on it to do so. He said the new share  class  
with a reduced fee only arose because of a review by the regulator and the guidance it then 
issued to firms.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator as he didnt  agree that because there was no legal  
requirement or guidance from the regulator that those without an adviser should be offered a 
separate share class this meant it was alright  for Henderson  not to provide this previously. 
He said that a customer that had a financial adviser  would have part of their fee paid to the 
adviser whereas  the whole of his fee was retained  by Henderson  so it profited unfairly on the 
fee he paid and he has been  deprived  of quite a big proportion of growth on his portfolio as a 
result.
Mr D also said it was strange it had offered him £100  now when it hadnt offered anything  
before referral to our service. He said this showed it wasnt acting as a responsible and 
ethical financial services  provider. The investigator responded but didnt change his opinion.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  in this complaint is whether or not Henderson did anything wrong in previously  
offering only one share class to retail clients with management charges set at 1.5%  - 
whether or not a customer  had a financial adviser  up until last year.
Ref: DRN83690512I fully understand  the point made by Mr D and his strength of feeling  about having been 
charged the same fee as customers who had the benefit of a financial adviser. I take his 
point that for someone with a financial adviser  part of the fee would be paid to the adviser 
whereas in his case he has paid for something  he didnt get.
But to uphold his complaint I would  have to be satisfied that Henderson had either  done  
something wrong in not providing  a separate share  class with lower fees for investors who 
didnt have a financial adviser when Mr D first invested, or had done something wrong at 
some later point but before 2019  in not offering  such a share  class.
When Mr D first invested the costs of funds were paid for by what  is generally known as 
bundled charges - so that the charges of financial advisers, platform providers and the fund 
managers themselves  were all bundled  together into one fee paid by all investors  into a 
fund. 
This was generally how most funds operated and I dont think  it can reasonably  be said that 
Henderson did anything wrong  when Mr D first invested when what  it did was in effect  the 
industry norm. Mr D was made  aware  of the fee that was payable  for the fund/s he invested 
in and agreed to this at the time.
The regulator then carried out what was known as the Retail  Distribution Review (RDR)  
which imposed various rules on financial advisers and platforms  as from the end of 
December 2012.  This changed the way many financial  advisers  were  paid so they were no 
longer paid commission for any fund they recommended  to a client  after the rules came  into 
force. 
One of the reasons the regulator carried out the RDR and imposed new rules  was because  it 
was aware the charges retail  investors were paying  were not transparent.  
Fund managers responded to this by providing  new clean share  classes  with only the fund 
management cost included, to accommodate the new charging regime for advisers  and 
platforms. Financial advisers  and platforms were then obliged to convert  clients to the new 
share classes by April 2016. 
But the RDR did not affect investors who had bought directly from the fund. The fund 
manager had no power to move an investor  from an old bundled fund into a new clean share 
class without the investors  agreement.  So a lot of direct investors remained invested in 
bundled share classes.
This changed in 2017 when the regulator  completed  its final report  on its Asset Management 
Market Study with new guidance being set out in its subsequent policy  statement in April 
2018. The main  change for the purposes  of this complaint is that the new guidance removed 
the need for the fund provider to get consent from each individual  investor before converting 
them from their current  share class to a new clean share class.
This is what  led to Henderson contacting  Mr D to inform him he was being  moved  to its new 
E share class with a lower  fee. I note Mr D has suggested that this shouldve been  done 
immediately but the guidance simply removes an obstacle to investors being converted  by 
the fund manager and doesnt require the fund manager to do this in any particular 
timescale. Whilst Henderson may have been  able to action the conversion sooner Im not 
satisfied it did anything  wrong because this didnt  happen until 2019.
Ref: DRN83690513In summary,  although I acknowledge  the points raised by Mr D Im not satisfied that 
Henderson did anything wrong  in charging him what it did given this was normal  industry 
practice at the time he invested. Im also not persuaded that it was required to change  him to 
its E share class as soon as the regulator issued its final guidance in 2018  which  allowed 
conversion without  individual consent.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8369051