K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr B bought the policy by phone in 2009 at the same  time as taking a mortgage.  He was 
employed at the time as a maintenance fitter and had been there at least  a year. From what  
he has told us, he was entitled to no more than statutory sick pay and didnt have any other  
means with which  to pay his mortgage if he couldnt work.
Mr B has told us of a health issue which at the time of the sale hed had for around 18 years 
and which  forced him to change his line of work some years before the sale.  Hes also told 
us he was treated  for and missed  three  months work with a different health issue  in 2009.
The PPI policy provided cover for Mr B for disability and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost around £30 a month at the start and for a successful claim 
offered to pay around £500 a month to help Mr B pay his mortgage  and other  costs.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  started in 2009. Mr Bs representative  
has made lengthy and substantial  representations on his behalf. Ill not restate them  all here, 
but I have read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mr Bs representative  says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mr Bs representatives believe there to be no 
evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr B about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr B received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  
Ref: DRN85455042opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2009 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN85455043The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation, subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Halifax  was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Halifax gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or damage  and 
what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr B know  he had a choice?
Ref: DRN85455044Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. The sale was made  by phone.  Phone  
scripts available from around the time suggest Halifax  wouldve referred  to the protection  as 
optional when it sold the cover. The mortgage offer, sent to Mr B after the sale but before the 
policy started, said Mr B didnt have to buy insurance from Halifax and the only insurance  it 
said he had to have  as a condition of the mortgage  was buildings insurance.  The policy 
acceptance letter, also sent before the mortgage  started,  said the cover was optional  and 
told him it wasnt a condition of the mortgage.  Taking everything into account, I think  it likely 
Mr B knew  the policy was optional and agreed  to take it without  undue  pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr B doesnt recall whether advice was given. 
With this in mind - and looking at what I have, including a Demands and Needs statement 
produced by Halifax that says Halifax recommended Mr B take the cover and told him it was 
suitable for him - Im persuaded Halifax  gave  advice. This means  it had to advise Mr B with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know exactly what was discussed in the call but the documentary evidence  suggests 
Halifax took some steps to establish whether the PPI was a suitable recommendation for 
Mr B. The adviser had information about  some of his financial circumstances  as part of the 
mortgage application and the demands and needs statement that was completed suggests  
Halifax tried to establish whether Mr B had a need to replace his income  in case of disability 
or unemployment. But I dont think Halifax did enough to ensure the policy  was suitable. For 
example, what I have doesnt  persuade  me Halifax asked Mr B about having any existing or 
chronic health issues or about any medical attention  hed had in the previous 12 months.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Halifax  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Halifax advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think  its more likely  than not the policy was ultimately suitable for him. 
In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B had a need for the policy   he wouldnt have  received any pay beyond statutory pay 
if he were unable  to work  due to illness, he wasnt entitled to redundancy pay and he had 
no savings to fall back on. The policy benefit  wouldve helped him manage  if he were 
unable to work  reducing the chances  of his home being put at risk.
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Although Mr B says he was financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen nothing  else to 
suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the PPI unsuitable  for Mr B, bearing  in mind:
-Mr B has said he was in a high-risk occupation but nothing about his occupation  or 
employment wouldve  made it difficult for him to claim under the policy terms. 
Ref: DRN85455045-Mr B wouldnt have  been able to claim  for the health issue  he was diagnosed with 
around 18 years earlier and which had forced him to change  his line of work some 
years before  the sale  because from what hes told us it was a chronic condition he 
was aware of at the start.  But based  on what I have,  including whats  been  said in the 
course of this complaint, it appears  that having  changed  his line of work this issue  
wasnt a significant  issue for Mr B after that. So, on balance, what I have makes me 
think Halifaxs recommendation wasnt unsuitable notwithstanding this exclusion. 
-We asked but Mr B told us he couldnt remember the date of his other health issue  
for which he missed three months work. What I do have suggests it mightve taken 
place after the policy had started  rather than before the sale. So, taking  everything  
into account, what I have doesnt  persuade me this was an existing health  issue  at 
the time of the sale - so Im not persuaded  Halifaxs advice was unsuitable by virtue  
of not having taken  this issue into account.
-There were  limits  to the cover  provided  by the policy (including the requirement that 
for a disability claim Mr B be unable to do his own or any similar  job and unable to do 
any work his experience  or training reasonably qualified him to do, the fact the policy 
would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim and the fact that 
claims for mechanical  back pain, and for mental  health issues  unless under the care 
of a specialist,  were limited to 3 months  for each claim). But the policy still provided 
valuable cover given  Mr Bs circumstances, including his lack of work benefits and 
other means, the loss of income  he could suffer as a result  in case  of disability or 
unemployment, the fact the policy was to protect  Mr Bs ability to pay costs related to 
his mortgage and the potential consequences were Mr B unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against his house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Halifax  was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr B was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that it was protection to help pay his mortgage related costs  if 
he were unable to work due to disability or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  
Ive reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, 
call scripts  available  from around the time suggest its likely Mr B was told what  the premium  
rate for the policy was, and told something about policy exclusions for chronic conditions and 
for pre-existing health conditions.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or the policy exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B, Im not persuaded Halifax did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Halifax gave Mr B all the information he needed 
Ref: DRN85455046about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Bs representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr Bs representative  considers  to be poor  value  and the 
fact that much of the premium went to the business  rather  than the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr B about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Halifax ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr B? To what extent  did Mr B suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Halifax  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr B would have 
still taken the policy,  had Halifax done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him. In those circumstances it seems  to me that, whether or not Mr B has 
suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had explained 
things properly, Mr B would have acted differently or whether he would have taken the policy  
in any event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  given 
the significant failings identified above.  Ive considered the representations of both sides and 
the evidence relating  to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN85455047return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr B had some interest in taking  payment  protection 
insurance. By this I mean when Halifax advised him there was a suitable product he could 
buy that would protect  his mortgage payments if he were unable  to work because  of 
disability or unemployment, he concluded he wanted that product. But he made that decision 
based on incomplete information,  meaning  what he thought he was getting is not exactly 
what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, and was told the premium rate, it doesnt appear Halifax  told him the exact 
premium at the point  he applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr B was told 
the cost before the policy started, so if this was significantly at odds with his expectations at 
the point of sale, its possible he mightve raised  that with Halifax  at the time or reconsidered  
his decision. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B wouldve  found  the cost unacceptable if he had 
been given the exact figure during the call in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr B would get back in return 
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely his expectations about what 
the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) was significantly  different to what  the policy actually  did  if anything, it is more 
likely than not the policy actually paid more  in the event of a claim than Mr B would  have 
expected as there was an additional  cash payment - the policy  benefit at the start was 
around £500 and his mortgage payment around  £375.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims relating to any chronic condition Mr B knew or 
shouldve known  of at the policy start;
Unless hed been symptom and treatment free for 24 months before the claim, the policy 
would exclude  disability claims relating to any health issue Mr B knew or should  
reasonably have known of at the start or for which hed seen or arranged to see a 
medical practitioner about in the 12 months  before the policy start; 
To be eligible  for a disability claim,  Mr B had to be unable to do his own or any similar job 
and also unable to do any work  his experience, education or training reasonably qualified 
him to do;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to mental  health conditions  if the claim 
was for more than three months benefits,  placing more onerous evidential  requirements 
to support a claim on those grounds;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to backache or related conditions,  with 
a limit of three months benefits if the claim related to mechanical  back  pain (pain due to 
distortion or dysfunction of the muscles, ligaments  or joints , which might include pain 
from spinal joints, vertebrae  or soft tissues but did not include pain referred  to the back  
by diseases in other organs) while placing more onerous evidential requirements to 
support a claim related to other back conditions, including those related to disc injuries  
and diseases  of the bones, before more than three  months  benefits  could be paid for it;
Ref: DRN85455048The policy excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B hadnt  been in work  for a continuous 
period of six months (but not counting as a break  two weeks or less out of work); 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr B pause  for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking  the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. Mr B was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. He wouldnt have been able to claim for the health  issue  
he was diagnosed with around  18 years before the sale, but from what I have it appears this 
health issue wasnt a significant issue for Mr B after he changed his line of work some years 
before the sale. And I havent  seen  evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So, I think he still had some  good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps required to 
make a disability claim for these  were more onerous  for claims exceeding three  months than 
Mr B might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely he wouldve expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And, 
while he also might  not have expected the benefit limit for mechanical back pain and these 
limitations mightve dissuaded some consumers in slightly  different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking the policy,  Mr B, in his circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he were not only unable to do his own 
or any similar job but also unable to do any work  his experience, education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into his thinking about what  to do. And I 
accept it may have given  him pause  for thought  although given Mr Bs circumstances and 
the limited other means he had to make payments if he werent working, on balance  I think 
he would  still have  been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr B any claim he made  would be limited to a 12 month period. 
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for but, aside from 
statutory sick pay, Mr B didnt have  any other  means to fall back on. So, I consider it likely he 
would still have thought a policy that paid a benefit  to help him meet mortgage related costs 
for up to 12 months, would be of benefit  to him and help him manage the consequences if he 
couldnt work in the circumstances the policy covered. The policy allowed multiple claims 
and its benefit  could help reduce Mr Bs outgoings  at what could be a difficult  and uncertain 
time if he were sick or unemployed  and make it less likely his home  would be put at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would  still have taken the policy. The policy  was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help Mr B manage the consequences if he were made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not Mr B 
would have taken  the policy in any event  notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Ref: DRN85455049Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  PPI, unless there  is evidence  to outweigh the presumption. They say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing 
from the guidance for firms set out at DISP  App 3 (which  I dont  consider  I am), I am only 
doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would  represent  fair compensation to 
put Mr B in the position he would have  been  in if he had not bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken the policy,  I am 
satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that Mr B would still have taken  
the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy he was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Mr B thinks  Halifax misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Halifaxs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Halifax gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2009 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that Halifax had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
Ref: DRN854550410and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8545504