K820x#14complaint
Miss X complains  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc failed to set up the text message alerts  she wants 
on her account.
background
Miss X says she has a current  account,  a savings account, and a credit  card account with 
HSBC. It seems as if she also has another account  with HSBC, which she doesnt regard as 
hers. Thats not the subject of this complaint.  
Miss X has told us that she has a disability. Although shes  chosen not to discuss  that with 
us in depth, she has told us that she has a chronic  illness. She has described  the symptoms  
she experiences. 
Miss X told us that shes  asked many times to have text alerts placed  on her account, so that 
she can be told when shes entering  her overdraft. She said that shed been asking for that 
for a long time,  but wasnt  given it, and the only way that she would  find out she was in 
overdraft was to look at her bank  statements.  Miss X also that that shed ended up incurring  
fees and charges because HSBC werent sending her messages. 
Miss X said she thought  that HSBC had added her to text banking  at one point, rather  than 
text alerts,  because she had been receiving messages for every transaction. She said that 
HSBC had finally added her to its text alert system in early 2018.
Miss X said that it had taken a very long time, and a number of requests, to get the text 
messages in place.  And it still wasnt what she wanted. Miss X said she only gets messages 
once she's used her arranged overdraft and gone  in to unarranged overdraft. What she 
wants is text alerts to notify  her that she is entering her arranged  overdraft or nearing the top 
of that overdraft. 
Miss X said that shes proud of the fact that she hasnt been  over her arranged  overdraft, but 
shes finding it hard to keep on top of things  due to her disability. 
Miss X also told us that she doesnt think that text messages sent by HSBC should contain  
so much sensitive information. She said that they include  information like her balance  and 
the details of each transaction. She would like a text message alert without these numbers. 
She also said that she wanted a refund of all the fees and charges she had ever incurred 
because she hadnt been receiving these  alerts.
HSBC said that it had put text alerts onto Miss Xs account at around  the same  time that 
shed contacted it about a duplicated payment onto her credit  card.  It said that it couldnt  find 
any earlier requests  for alerts on her account.  It had put alerts  on twice  in June 2018, so it 
may not have got this right the first time. 
HSBC said that it knew  that the alerts it was sending  still werent  what Miss X wanted. But 
what she wanted just wasnt something  it offered. HSBC said that it was Miss Xs 
responsibility to maintain  her account,  and it wasnt obliged to notify her by text when she 
was in her planned overdraft.  It would only text her once shed gone into unarranged  
overdraft. 
Ref: DRN85870822HSBC sent us the terms and conditions for its text message service. Those say that HSBC  
will send a text each  day that weve agreed an unarranged overdraft on your account  or if 
there isnt enough  money in your current account to make payments youve asked us to 
make that day.
HSBC also said that Miss X hadnt  incurred charges on her current account. HSBC sent us a 
list of interest amounts  that shed been charged on that account.  That showed  that she had 
been charged only 33 pence in interest for all of 2015. All the interest  she had been charged 
in 2016 (which was around £10) had been  refunded to her. She had been charged £4.25 in 
interest in 2018,  but over half of that had been refunded too. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBCs terms set out when it will 
send texts. Thats the most HSBC can do. There isnt a service telling customers that they 
are using their arranged overdraft. And theres no obligation on HSBC to provide this. 
Miss X didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that she didnt feel that her 
complaint had been fully investigated,  and may not have been fully understood. Miss X said 
that our service should have powers  to force businesses  to change how they deal with 
people with disabilities.  Our investigator  explained that we will look at what  has happened in 
each case, to that customer. And we would uphold a complaint if we didnt think a 
customers disability issues had been taken into account. But its not in our remit to ask a 
business to make wholesale changes to their processes. 
Miss X has previously explained the wider impact that her disability has on her, and in 
particular how this makes  banking much more  difficult for her. She has brought three 
complaints about  HSBC  to our service at the same  time, and mentioned previous issues 
which are not the subject  of these complaints. She asked us to take the whole, overall 
picture into consideration when deciding her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons. 
Miss X said that shed  been asking HSBC  to put text alerts on her account  for some time. 
She hasnt  told us when  she started  to ask for this. HSBC says it doesnt have any record  of 
her asking for this before summer 2018.  And it does have records  of other  times  when  it has 
spoken to Miss X. So I dont think that Im able to conclude that its more  likely that not that 
Miss X has been asking  for this for longer than that. 
HSBC did take two actions in June  2018  to put text message alerts on Miss Xs account. Its 
possible that at first it put on more alerts than she wanted, and then changed that, as she 
has said. 
But what  it offers isnt what Miss X wants. HSBC has said it just doesnt provide an alert 
when someone  is nearing the top of their authorised overdraft. Ive considered whether 
HSBC has to do what Miss Xs asked  for. I need  to bear in mind that this would be likely to 
require a significant change to HSBCs systems, if I said that it should do this for Miss X. Its 
not clear that a change of this nature would be required as a reasonable adjustment for Miss 
X.
Ref: DRN85870823Our service doesnt have  the full details  of Miss Xs disability. But she has told us that she 
simply prefers not to use online or phone  banking. She hasnt suggested that she isnt able 
to use these services. And I understand  that Miss X is able to contact HSBC by phone. So I 
havent been able to identify a reason why Miss X wouldnt  be able to use an alternative  way 
of keeping an eye on her account balance. In those circumstances,  I dont think that I could  
suggest to HSBC that it should make a significant change to how it operates  its text alerts, in 
order to provide a reasonable  adjustment for Miss X. 
Miss X also said that she wanted HSBC to change  the content  of its text alerts. I dont think  
its for our service  to assess  the security of messages that HSBC is sending  to the mobile 
numbers of all of its customers. I can only look at Miss Xs complaint. And I dont think  its 
unreasonable or unfair for HSBC to include account  and transaction details in its messages 
to her. 
Miss X has also said that she wanted HSBC to pay her back all the fees and charges on her 
account, which she said shed accrued  because  it wasnt sending her text alerts.  Ive 
summarised the charges that have  been  applied to her account above, and I can see that 
Miss X has in fact managed her account  very well. She has paid very little in the way of 
interest, and no charges,  on her current account. 
I also note that the alerts  that Miss X said she wanted, about getting  close to her 
unauthorised overdraft, arent ones that HSBC  says it can send  her. And Ive explained I 
dont think it has to. So I dont think that I can ask HSBC to pay Miss X back  the modest 
amounts of interest  she has paid on this account. 
Miss X has asked us to take her disability, as well as the wider context of both her other  
complaints against  HSBC  and other  issues shes alerted  us to, into account when assessing 
this complaint. Our service has explained  to Miss X that we can only look at the complaint 
shes raising in each case. But Ive sought  to set that in the context of Miss Xs experience 
overall. I dont think that what  HSBC  did in this case was related in any way to Miss Xs 
disability. And I havent been able to identify any point in this complaint when HSBC  has 
failed to provide  reasonable  adjustments to support Miss X. So I dont think  that HSBC has 
discriminated against Miss X on grounds of her disability,  or failed to provide her with 
appropriate support,  in this case.
Our service has checked with HSBC whether it has recorded that Miss X has a disability. 
Staff in her local branch  may be aware  of this, but HSBC would need her express  permission 
to note this on its system.  Although HSBC is aware that she has previously requested  a 
particular type of card, because of her disability, it has no notes  on its system recording that 
she has a disability. Miss X may want to consider giving HSBC  express  permission to record  
that on her file. 
I know that Miss X will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Ref: DRN85870824Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8587082