complaint
Ms S complains that Jones Sheridan Financial Consulting Limited (Jones Sheridan) gave her 
advice which  was unsuitable. Ms S says it did not properly reflect her objectives  and 
circumstances and so the fee she paid for the advice should be refunded  to her.
background
Ms S was a deferred member of the 1964  Section of the Barclays UK Retirement Fund  (the 
'pension scheme') and wanted to transfer away from the scheme. She approached  Jones 
Sheridan for advice. It had previously advised a number of her colleagues to transfer from 
the pension scheme.
Ms S met with Jones  Sheridan on 27 February 2017 and signed  a Jones Sheridan  client  
agreement. On the same day a fact-find was completed summarising her then circumstances 
and objectives. In the profile notes section of the fact-find it says:
'I explained to (Ms S) that my starting  point with a DB scheme  is always that it should not be 
transferred and that she would be charged for the advice with the likelihood being that she 
would be advised not to transfer.
In the additional notes  section of the fact-find it says:
'(Ms S) understands  that the starting point for any DB transfer is that it is unsuitable.  She 
understands  that she is likely to be advised  to take the benefits from the scheme  and is 
prepared  to pay an advice  fee for this. Fees have been  agreed  and the couple are 
comfortable  paying an ongoing adviser fee to ensure  that their income remains  
sustainable.
Following completion  of the fact-find  Jones Sheridan arranged  for a transfer  value analysis
(TVAS). This was completed and included in a suitability report  on 12 May 2017.
The report said:
'You can be assured  that we will not advise you to transfer  unless we are satisfied that it is 
in your best interests.  Our starting  point for advising  you is that a transfer will not be in 
your best interests.  If we advise you not to transfer we will not facilitate  you going against  
our advice.
The suitability report recommended Ms S retain  her deferred pension in the pension  scheme 
rather than transfer.  Jones Sheridan explained its reasoning. It said:
 the critical yield the transfer value would need to achieve was too high given her attitude 
to risk and term to her retirement  age of 60. The critical  yield was noted  as
10.73% or 7.61% with a cash lump  sum and a reduced pension
Ref: DRN8647967K820x#14 her financial  objectives could  be achieved  without the need  to transfer
 the pension scheme provided a guaranteed, inflation proof  income and carried the 
investment risk.
Ms S complained about this advice. She considered  Jones Sheridan ignored  the 
objectives she wished to achieve by transferring.
Jones Sheridan considered Ms Ss complaint. It concluded the advice it gave met her 
objectives and was suitable. So it rejected  her complaint.
Ms S then approached another adviser for advice on transferring from the pension  
scheme. Following this advice she proceeded with a transfer from the pension scheme.
Ms S paid Jones Sheridan  the agreed  fee of £1,080 for the advice she received. Ms S 
complained to this service that the fee was not justified.
Our adjudicator considered Ms Ss complaint and concluded it should be upheld.  He did 
so on the basis that Jones  Sheridan  ought to have told Ms S at the outset (in February  
2017) that if, as was likely, its advice was not to transfer, it would  not then facilitate a 
transfer if Ms S still wanted  to transfer.
Our adjudicator said that in his view, Ms S wanted to transfer from the outset, irrespective  
of any advice  she might  get from Jones Sheridan. Accordingly, Jones Sheridan should  
have realised  this from the outset and told Ms S that in those circumstances it would not 
facilitate a transfer even on an insistent client basis.
Ms S could then have sought advice  elsewhere  rather than paying  for advice she had no 
intention of following.
Our adjudicator said that Jones Sheridan should refund its advice fee to Ms S.
Jones Sheridan did not agree. It reiterated that it was an advice firm only.  There  was no 
suggestion that it would facilitate transfers. Ms Ss apparent expectation that it would  
facilitate a transfer was predicated on assumptions about  Jones Sheridans  role which  
were unreasonable and not supported  by any documented evidence.
As agreement was not reached, the matter  was referred to me.
I issued  a provisional  decision  as my conclusions  differed  from those  of our adjudicator.  I 
invited  Jones  Sheridan  and Ms S to provide  me with any further  submissions  which  I would  
consider  before  reaching  my final decision.
In the event,  Jones  Sheridan  and Ms S made  no further  submissions.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN86479673No further submissions were received to cause  me to change  the conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision. So my final decision  here is similar to my provisional decision.
I appreciate that Ms S disagrees with the advice she received  from Jones  Sheridan.  I also 
appreciate that Ms S says it was her intention from the outset  to transfer  her pension 
benefits from her defined benefit scheme.
But the point is that Ms S sought  independent advice. Whether she agreed with it or not is 
immaterial. Jones Sheridan was obliged to give Ms S independent  advice, in good  faith,  
following a regulatory  compliant advice  process.  In my view,  it met all three  of these tests.  I 
have not seen any evidence to persuade me otherwise.
Whilst it is unfortunate that Ms S did not (and does not) agree with the advice, it was not 
incumbent on Jones  Sheridan to provide  advice  that Ms S agreed with. If that were  the case, 
the advice would not be independent. I understand Ms Ss position that the advice in her 
view did not reflect her circumstances and objectives.
But the documented evidence shows that Ms Ss circumstances  were properly recorded. Of 
her stated objectives, Jones Sheridan clearly  thought these were not in Ms Ss best interests  
and rightly, in my view,  explained why. Ms S is perfectly entitled to disagree  with the advice 
she received but I do not agree that Jones Sheridan  failed  to advise her in accordance with 
its regulatory obligations.
I have noted that on the complaint form to this service, Ms S says her complaint partly  stems 
from the advice  she was given being  markedly different to the advice Jones Sheridan gave 
some of her former colleagues. I do not agree that this is a valid basis  for complaint.
As Jones Sheridan  explained, its advice is specifically and rightly  reflective of the 
circumstances of each of its clients. The advice it gave Ms S followed this principle and its 
regulatory obligations.
In respect of Jones Sheridans failing to tell Ms S at the outset that it would not facilitate a 
transfer even  on an insistent client basis, I am not persuaded Jones Sheridan failed in this 
respect.
I have not seen evidence  to persuade me that Ms S, having  been told at the outset that 
Jones Sheridans advice  would more likely than not be not to transfer,  then told it that in 
those circumstances  she intended to ignore  the advice and would expect it to facilitate a 
transfer. 
The fact-find, completed at the initial meeting and which I am not aware Ms S has 
challenged, makes no mention of Ms Ss apparent  determination to proceed with a transfer  
irrespective of any advice not to do so.
I do not agree it is fair or reasonable to conclude it was incumbent on Jones Sheridan to 
anticipate at the outset  that this was Ms Ss intention, irrespective of the advice it would  
eventually give her. 
In the event, it confirmed,  reasonably in my view in its May 2017 suitability report, that it 
would not facilitate a transfer  against its advice.
For the reasons  set out above,  I have decided not to uphold this complaint. It follows that I 
am not persuaded to direct Jones Sheridan  to repay its advice  fee to Ms S.
Ref: DRN86479674my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Terry Connor
ombudsman                                
Ref: DRN8647967