K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint concerns life insurance  with Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited that he took 
out for him and his wife as an employee benefit under his companys group scheme.  He 
says he was led to believe the cover would continue if his employment ceased but hes now 
discovered this isnt the case. 
  
background
Mr C took the cover  out in 2012, shortly  after he joined the company. He describes  being  
sold the policies  at a roadshow where a number of different employee benefits were 
promoted. He says he enquired whether the cover would continue  if his employment ceased 
for any reason  and he was assured it would.
Sadly Mr Cs wife became  ill in 2016.  This prompted him to revisit  the policies and he 
obtained some related  documentation he hadnt  previously seen. This showed  that the cover 
wouldnt in fact continue  in the way hed understood. 
He enquired whether it was possible for the policies to be changed to a direct basis, so the 
cover was no longer  dependent upon his continued  employment, but this wasnt  possible. He 
complained about being  misinformed, but Aviva  while acknowledging that it was difficult  to 
determine precisely what information had been available in 2012  was satisfied that there 
wouldve been sufficient  for Mr C to check how the cover worked. And he wouldve had 
regular further  opportunities  since 2012.  
Aviva did acknowledge, however, that it hadnt dealt with Mr Cs complaint as efficiently as it 
should have done and paid him £500  compensation for the trouble and upset  caused  as a 
result.
Mr C then referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld. In short, she didnt feel there  sufficient evidence to show that Mr C had been  
misinformed. And, further, she was of the view that he would  most  likely have gone ahead 
with the employee  cover  in any event because of the cost benefits  involved.
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He said, in brief:
No option  between group and direct cover  was presented at the roadshow. He was 
left with the understanding that there  was only one sort of cover,  which came with an 
employee discount. 
No documentation,  including a members guide, was provided  at the time. This was 
only received when his wife became ill. 
It shouldnt be assumed on balance that he wouldve gone ahead  with the policies in 
any event. 
The information, if hed received  it, wouldve influenced his decision and he wouldnt  
have enrolled  on the scheme. This is demonstrated by the fact that hes now 
purchased a stand-alone policy for himself. 
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
Ref: DRN80378072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
I appreciate Mr C says that he was misinformed about how the cover  worked  by a 
representative at the roadshow in 2012. Ive no reason to doubt his recollections, but in 
reaching a fair conclusion  I must  balance them against the other available  evidence.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that the cover would end at the same time as the 
employment. That is, after all, how this type of cover generally works. The dispute is whether 
Aviva made this fact clear to Mr C. 
Even if there  was no information provided to Mr C at all  no members  guide,  no key facts, 
etc  this doesnt  mean that the information wasnt available. And Mr C wouldve been aware 
that hed received no supplementary information,  beyond what had been discussed  at the 
roadshow. I understand he may have simply  assumed that the cover  would continue post-
employment if thats what he was led to believe.  But I think its reasonable to expect him to 
have followed up the lack of further  information. 
Because of the passage of time its now difficult to be sure what  information  was actually 
presented on Avivas website. Avivas  satisfied it wouldve been made clear that, among 
other things,  the cover  would cease in line with employment ceasing. And I think, on 
balance, this is most likely. 
I can only uphold a complaint where  Im satisfied that the business made a mistake. I 
appreciate that Mr C now finds himself in a difficult position because of the change  in 
circumstances associated  with his wifes illness. But I nevertheless dont feel able to 
conclude that Aviva has acted incorrectly. 
I dont think theres sufficient evidence to support  a finding that Mr C was misinformed at the 
roadshow. And I think more likely than not correct information was available  on the website 
at the time. And even  if that information wasnt to the same  level of clarity as that available  
today, I dont think theres enough to say that it was actually wrong at any point. 
Ref: DRN80378073my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8037807