K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that MYJAR Limited gave him loans that he couldnt  afford. The complaint 
has been brought to this service on Mr Gs behalf  by a claims management company. But for 
ease I shall refer below to all actions being  taken  by Mr G.
background
Mr G took out 16 short  term loans with MYJAR. All the loans  were  repayable  by one 
repayment and all have  been repaid. Mr Gs loan history is as follows:-
Loan number 
Date of 
loanLoan amount Repayment date 
1. 8/5/2015 £200 26/5/2015
2. 18/9/2015 £100 22/9/2015
3. 4/10/2015 £200 26/10/2015
4. 21/11/2015 £200 26/11/2015
5. 10/12/2015 £150 23/12/2015
6. 26/12/2015 £300 26/1/2016
7. 31/1/2016 £450 25/2/2016
8. 26/2/2016 £500 24/3/2016
9. 29/3/2016 £100 25/4/2016
10. 29/4/2016 £275 25/5/2016
11. 28/5/2016 £100 31/5/2016
12. 12/6/2016 £250 23/6/2016
13. 20/8/2016 £100 26/8/2016
14. 19/9/2016 £100 26/9/2016
15. 27/9/2016 £100 26/10/2016
16. 30/10/2016 £125 15/11/2016
MYJAR said that it had asked Mr G for his income and regular expenditure and conducted a 
credit check.  It also took into account a minimum amount  for household expenditure and 
Mr Gs borrowing from other lenders. MYJAR  said that based on its affordability checks, it 
was not proportionate  or necessary to request further information from Mr G. It had 
conducted all necessary checks and acted responsibly in providing Mr G with affordable 
borrowing options. MYJAR in its final response  letter offered to refund the interest and 
charges paid by Mr G on Loans  8 and 9 and pay 8% statutory interest on those refunds and 
mark the loans  as closed on Mr Gs credit file.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  about Loans 6 to 16 should be upheld. 
MYJAR responded  to say that the increased  checks it carried  out as shown in its business 
file were proportionate.  It also said that due to the lack of information  in the adjudicators  
view, it wasnt certain  that its data was considered by the adjudicator. 
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN88756522After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to MYJAR on 8 October 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  MYJAR lent to Mr G the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that MYJAR  was required to establish  whether Mr G could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Gs complaint.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. Id noted from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Mr Gs income  as well as details about his housing  costs, other 
monthly expenses and other credit commitments. MYJAR used statistical  expenditure data 
Ref: DRN88756523and revised Mr Gs stated outgoings upwards to take account of these. Id also noted  that 
MYJAR had carried out a credit check and had seen  a summary of the credit checks for all 
the loans.
Id also seen Mr Gs credit report and referred to this in my provisional decision. 
Id thought about whether  MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loan 1, Mr G needed to pay £228.80 to repay  it. I could see that the repayment was 
relatively modest compared  to the income  of £1,800 Mr G declared to MYJAR. Id also noted 
that Mr Gs adjusted expenditure  was £980.   
I could also see that MYJARs credit  check showed that Mr G had opened nine new 
accounts in the previous three months and that his unsecured  loan balances  were estimated 
to be £5,418. I could see that Mr Gs other  borrowing might have suggested to MYJAR  that 
his finances were under pressure. But I didnt think the repayment amount was so large  that 
it was obvious  it wouldve  caused Mr G financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing  Loan  1 were 
proportionate. And given  Mr Gs repayment  amount for Loan 1, what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, and that this was his first loan with the lender, I didnt think it 
wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to have asked him for the amount of information 
that would  have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Mr G had provided or the 
information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong  to give Loan  1 to 
Mr G.
Loan 2 was taken out around four months after Loan 1 was repaid. The loan amount for 
Loan 2 had decreased  to £100.  The repayment  amount was £105.60. Mr Gs declared  
income had decreased to £1,600, and his adjusted expenditure had decreased  to £932. Id 
also noted that MYJARs credit check showed that Mr G had taken out nine new credit 
accounts in the previous three months, but it also appeared that his unsecured debt had 
decreased to an estimated amount of £4,112. Again I thought  that the repayment that Mr G 
needed to make on Loan 2 was still relatively  modest compared  to the income that hed 
declared to MYJAR. And I didnt think the repayment amount was so large  that it was 
obvious it wouldve  caused Mr G financial difficulty.
So given Mr Gs repayment  amount for Loan 2 and what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to have 
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  the lending 
was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr G provided or the information  MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 2 to Mr G.
Loan 2 was repaid early.  I thought this might  have caused MYJAR some concerns about  
Ref: DRN88756524Mr Gs finances. And Loan 3 was taken out around  two weeks  later. The loan amount and 
monthly repayment amount had increased to £200 and £235.20  respectively.  Id also noted  
that MYJARs credit checks before Loan 3 showed  Mr G had taken out nine new credit  
accounts in the previous three months, and it also appeared that his unsecured debt was still 
an estimated amount  of £4,112. But again  I thought that the repayment that Mr G needed to 
make on Loan 3 was still relatively modest  compared to the income  that hed declared to 
MYJAR. And I didnt  think the repayment  amount was so large that it was obvious it wouldve 
caused Mr G financial  difficulty.
So given Mr Gs repayment  amount for Loan 3 and what was apparent about his 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for MYJAR to have 
asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  the lending 
was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr G provided or the information  MYJAR 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  MYJAR was wrong to give Loan 3 to Mr G.
Loan 4 was Mr Gs third loan from MYJAR in around  two months and the loan amount was 
again £200. Id noted that MYJARs credit checks before Loan 4 showed Mr G had taken out 
six new credit accounts in the previous  three months, and the balances  on four accounts had 
increased in the previous three months. I thought that by this time MYJAR should  have  been  
concerned that Mr G might have  been  reliant on its lending. And I didnt think it was 
reasonable for MYJAR  to base its assessment before Loan 4 on the information provided by 
Mr G. So I thought MYJAR should have supplemented the information it held by asking Mr G 
some more detailed  questions,  such as whether he was borrowing from other  short term 
lenders at the same time. This was to make sure Mr G was in a position to make the loan 
repayment sustainably.  I couldnt see that it had done this. So I needed to think about what  
MYJAR wouldve seen  if it had carried out proportionate  checks. 
I couldnt see any other short term loans on Mr Gs credit report  which were repayable at the 
same time as Loan 4. Id also have normally looked at a borrowers bank  statements for the 
month before the loan to see what proportionate checks would likely  have  shown. 
Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Gs bank statements. Id noted that the adjudicator had asked 
Mr G for his bank statements in October 2018  so hed had ample  time to provide these. So I 
couldnt say that if MYJAR had completed  sufficient checks, it would have found that Mr G 
couldnt afford to repay Loan  4 sustainably. So I couldnt say that MYJAR was wrong  to give 
Loan 4 to Mr G.
Id looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending with Mr G to see if there was a point at 
which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 5. I said this because:
There was an emerging pattern between Loans 2 to 5 of Mr G taking a new loan 
every month. I thought  that by Loan 5, MYJAR  ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
regarded that pattern  as established.  
By Loan  5, Mr G had been borrowing from MYJAR for over seven months and 
Ref: DRN88756525Loan 5 was his fourth  loan in less than three  months. 
I could see that as MYJAR  didnt stop lending  at this point, Mr G went on to take out another 
eleven loans in the following ten months. I thought  that Mr G had lost out because MYJAR 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan  5 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Gs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that all the loans were repaid didnt  mean that they were repaid sustainably,  
or without causing Mr G undue difficulty. 
Id noted that MYJAR was concerned that the data it had provided hadnt been  considered. 
Id said that I had considered the information it provided to us in its business  file and its 
credit checks, and Id referred to this in some detail for its earlier  loans.
But Id also thought that Mr Gs borrowing history might have suggested to MYJAR that it 
was likely his finances were under strain, and that he was most likely borrowing to support 
his day to day living costs  and debt repayments  rather than for a one-off emergency. Mr G 
had continued  to reborrow in a way that suggested  a long-term  dependence on expensive 
short-term credit. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As MYJAR knew, the FCA had made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high 
cost lending firms that a high volume of relending..might  be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So, I thought that MYJAR  needed to pay Mr G some  compensation relating to Loans 5 to 16. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr G or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  MYJAR to put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on Loans 5 to 16;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove all entries about Loans 5 to 16 from Mr Gs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr G acknowledged receipt  of my provisional decision but hasnt provided any further 
information in response to it.
Ref: DRN88756526MYJAR hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr G and MYJAR have given  me nothing further to consider, I see no reason  to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require MYJAR to pay Mr G some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on Loans 5 to 16;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
3.Remove all entries about Loans 5 to 16 from Mr Gs credit file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8875652