K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that R T Rate Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Ms B. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2005.  R T Rate Limited sold 
Ms B the policy at the same that she took out a hire purchase agreement.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Ms B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms B has said, but Ive decided the policy  wasnt mis-sold. I will 
explain why:
Ms B has said she was led to believe she had to take PPI in order to get the 
finance. However I couldnt fairly  say that R T Rate Limited acted  wrongly in this 
way, unless there was some supporting  evidence   which I do realise would be 
difficult to get so many years later. And I can see that the PPI is at least presented  
as a choice on the application  form which Ms B signed. 
R T Rate  Limited recommended the PPI to Ms B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. If Ms B 
needed to make  a claim, the PPI could have helped  meet the payments for a 
period longer than her employer sick pay; and it doesnt appear she had other  
significant resources  to fall back.  So the PPI was potentially  useful. It also looks  
like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
The monthly cost of the PPI was set out clearly, so Ms B would have known what 
she was agreeing to.
Ref: DRN81287732my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons Ive given above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8128773