K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about three loans Satsuma provided to Mr A between  September 2015  and 
May 2016. 
Heres a loan table setting out details of the loans: 
Loan  
No.Start Date Amount Term  
(weeks)Repaid Date
1 07-Sep-15 £100 26 15-Dec-15
2 15-Dec-15 £200 17 08-Aug-17
3 29-May-16 £200 33 24-Aug-17
Mr A said that proper checks werent done  and Satsuma shouldnt  have given  him these  
unaffordable loans . He says the loans he took out led to him being in a spiral of debt and this 
has had lasting consequences on his credit file. 
Our adjudicators overall view was that he hadnt  seen enough to say it was unfair for 
Satsuma to have  provided  loans 1 and 2 to Mr A. But he felt that by loan 3, Mr A had shown 
clear signs  he was struggling to repay his previous loan. And also,  the overall pattern of 
borrowing itself showed that by loan 3 the lending  was unsustainable  so Satsuma 
shouldnt have given  loan 3 to Mr A.
To put things right our adjudicator recommended (Im briefly  summarising  here) that 
Satsuma should  refund all interest and charges Mr A had paid on loan 3, plus interest on the 
refund, and amend his credit  file to remove all information about  this loan from Mr As credit 
file.
Satsuma responded  by saying it accepted  the adjudicators proposals. It then went on to say 
how it intended to put things right for Mr A.
But what  Satsuma said it would actually do appeared to fall short of what our adjudicator had 
recommended  and Mr A requested  an ombudsman review.   
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN85188432But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  think he had enough  evidence to say that loans 1 and 2 shouldnt 
have been provided, but he felt that loan 3 shouldnt have been  lent. 
It appears that both Satsuma and Mr A agree with our adjudicators proposal to uphold  the 
complaint only about loan 3. 
So I don't think  I need  to say much more about this other than to confirm  I've reviewed all the 
available information   and I agree this seems  a fair outcome.
But Id like to explain why I think loan 3 should be upheld  Ive taken  a slightly  different 
approach to our adjudicator. This doesnt  change the outcome   Im still planning on 
upholding Mr As complaint about this loan. But it does make a difference  in terms of what  I 
think its fair to tell Satsuma to do to put things  right. 
Ref: DRN85188433I think by loan 3 Satsuma should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was likely to be 
unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided  this loan. I say this because at this point 
Satsuma ought  to have realised:
Mr A was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Hed had problems keeping 
up the scheduled repayments  on loan 2 which was still running when Mr A took out 
loan 3, even though  it shouldve been  repaid by then
Satsumas own credit checks  appear  to show that Mr A had five payments in arrears
Mr A wasnt making any real inroads into the amount he owed Satsuma  the loan 
amounts he was borrowing werent  decreasing  - loan 3 was for twice the amount hed 
borrowed on his first loan 
by now hed been continuously paying Satsuma loans for around eight months in a 
row. So it wasnt reasonable of Satsuma to think Mr As situation had improved and 
he was now asking  to borrow because of a new need for a short  term loan. Rather, it 
looked more like he had ongoing and long term money  problems 
So Im thinking  about upholding Mr As complaint about loan 3 because  I think there were 
clear signs  that the loan wasnt  affordable  for him  so Satsuma shouldnt  have provided it to 
him. 
I dont think theres enough information to say at this stage  that a clear pattern of lending  had 
been established by the time Mr A took out loan 3  I think  its just too early to say that. In 
my view, he hadnt had so many loans or been borrowing for long enough for me to be able 
to say his overall  pattern  of borrowing suggested he was by then becoming persistently 
reliant on short-term loans  as our adjudicator did. 
So, when deciding  how to reflect  this on Mr As credit file, I think  a fair outcome is to say that 
Satsuma should  remove any adverse  information  about this loan (as in fact Satsuma has 
offered to do). I dont  think it would be fair overall  to say that it should remove all information 
about the loan  as our adjudicator recommended.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr A has welcomed  what I've said in my provisional decision - as far as it goes. He also 
thinks that in the interests of fairness Satsuma should be directed to write off any 
outstanding balance remaining after it has reworked the account  the way Ive said.
Beyond acknowldeging receipt, Satsuma hasnt  made any further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive carefully considered  what Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision  in 
particular what hes said about  his current financial situation and the time since  the loan was 
taken, as well as the time and money  hes spent  responding  to the lenders demands.
Ref: DRN85188434I agree  with Mr A that a blanket approach isnt necessarily fair  and Id like to take this 
opportunity to reassure  him that the Ombudsman considers each case  on its own particular 
merits, taking into account individual circumstances. And thats  what  Ive done  here when 
thinking about Mr As complaint.
My aim is to try, as far as possible,  to put Mr A in the position  he wouldve been if the lender 
hadnt provided him with an unaffordable loan.
I think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision does this in a way thats fair and 
reasonable to both parties  based  on all the information Ive seen  and bearing  in mind that 
Mr A had the benefit of this loan. And whilst I appreciate that the loan dates back  a long 
time, this will be addressed in money  terms by my direction to Satsuma to pay Mr A 
backdated interest.
So, after taking carefully into account  everything  thats been  said in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained 
and to issue the directions to settle  the complaint as set out in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what Satsuma should  do
If Satsuma has sold the outstanding  debt it should buy this back before doing  what I have 
outlined below. If Satsuma isnt able to buy the debt back then it should  liaise  with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
refund  all interest, fees and charges Mr A paid on loan 3 and pay interest* of 8% 
simple a year on any refunded interest,  fees and charges from the date they were  
paid (if they were)  to the date of settlement
if there  is still an outstanding  balance  owing then Satsuma can first use the amounts 
calculated above to repay any balance remaining outstanding
if this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr A. However if there is 
still an outstanding  balance then Satsuma should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr A
remove any adverse information  Satsuma has recorded on Mr As credit  file (and 
ask any new debt owner to do the same if the debt is sold on).
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN85188435my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) to 
take the steps Ive set out above to put things right for Mr A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8518843