K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains about the way that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited,  trading as 
Audi Finance, dealt  with the end of her hire purchase agreement.
background
A new car was supplied  to Ms G under a hire purchase agreement with Audi Finance that 
she signed in August  2014. She agreed  to make  47 monthly payments of £337.84 for the car 
and there  was an optional final payment of £12,231.25.  She wanted to replace that car when 
the agreement  ended  with a new car and she had discussions  with the dealer  about that but 
the model that she wanted wasnt yet available.
Audi Finance wrote to Ms G about  four weeks before the end of the agreement  to set out the 
options that were  available to her. About three  weeks after the date of the letter she asked it 
to finance the optional  final payment or to give her a short term extension of her agreement.  
It said that the as the final payment was due five days later it was too late to finance it and 
the dealer didnt agree to a short term extension of the agreement.  She then sold the car to 
the dealer (but says that that was for less than she would have sold it for privately) and 
arranged a replacement  car by other means. 
She complained to Audi Finance. It upheld her complaint and confirmed that it had updated  
its end of agreement  letters  to reflect that customers need  to contact it 21 days before the 
final payment is due in order  to refinance it. Ms G but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She didnt think that 
Audi Finance should have to compensate Ms G and she couldnt link any losses that Ms G 
might have made by selling her car privately  to the agreement not being extended. She said 
that the dealer didnt know the release  date of the model  of car that Ms G wanted, there was 
no requirement for it to extend Ms Gs agreement  and she didnt think that it would have 
made a difference if Ms G had been  told about the need to refinance 21 days before the end 
of the agreement. But the adjudicator did think that the time limit information could have 
been included  in the options letter for information purposes.
Ms G has asked  for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that Audi Finance didnt fulfil its obligations to supply her with a replacement  car - 
because she wanted to order one but couldnt do so - or to extend the agreement. She says 
that she feels that she was forced to sell the car to the dealer for a lower  price than shed 
have got elsewhere.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Audi Finance agreed to supply  Ms G with a car on the terms set out in the hire agreement.  
About four weeks  before the agreement ended it sent her a letter about her options  for 
ending the agreement. Those options included a new car, making the final payment and 
buying the car, keeping the car and refinancing the final payment and returning  the car. 
Ms G had the right under the agreement to make  the final payment and buy the car or to 
return the car. But she had no right to require Audi Finance to supply a new car to her under 
Ref: DRN88453012a new hire purchase agreement or to keep the car and require it to refinance  the final 
payment. Those options were given to her by Audi Finance but they were subject to 
negotiation of terms and further agreement between it and Ms G.
So I dont  consider that Audi Finance has failed to fulfil its obligations under the agreement.  
Ms G clearly  feels very strongly that Audi Finance should have done more  to assist  her at 
the end of the agreement.  But Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
it has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with Ms G. It has accepted that its end of agreement 
letters should reflect  that customers need to contact it 21 days  before the final payment  is 
due in order to refinance it and it says that its updated its letters.
It was Ms Gs decision to sell the car to the dealer.  She had the option to return it to Audi 
Finance. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that she was forced  or 
unfairly pressurised into selling the car to the dealer.  Audi Finance wasnt  involved in that 
arrangement and I dont  consider that it has any liability to Ms G for it.
Other than the update  of its letter which it has said its made, Im not persuaded that Audi 
Finance has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Ms G. So I find it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require Audi Finance  to pay any compensation 
to Ms G or to take any other action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8845301