K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  that started in 
2002. Mr and Mrs S say Santander  UK Plc, trading as Abbey National, (Santander) 
mis-sold the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The PPI started at the same time as Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage. It was cover  on Mr S in case 
of unemployment.  The monthly benefit  could be set higher than the mortgage payment if this 
was wanted. Mr and Mrs Ss monthly  benefit was much higher than their mortgage payment.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on  and Santander hasnt been able to 
provide a copy of any PPI application form. But from what we know  of how Santander sold 
PPI policies like this at the time, taking the cover wouldve normally  involved completing a 
separate PPI application form  and it isnt unusual for that form to not be available  now.
So the fact Santander cant now produce  an application form Mr and Mrs S signed  to take 
the cover  doesnt,  in my view, mean Mr and Mrs S didnt sign an application for the cover 
before it started. And the absence of an application  isnt enough to make me think  Santander 
started the PPI without  the form to do so and without Mr and Mrs Ss permission.
Also Santander has a provided a letter produced for Mr and Mrs S at the time.  Addressed  to 
Mr S, it thanked him for choosing to take out Paymentcare and said it enclosed a schedule  
of cover and policy  documents. From what we know  of Santanders process, a letter like this 
wouldve normally been sent once the policy  had been taken. The letter says what payments 
will be and how they will be shown  separately on the statements.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs S received  this letter in this case, or what they thought  of it if they 
did. But in my view the fact a letter of this kind would normally be sent supports the idea that 
Santander wouldve  likely asked Mr and Mrs S whether the cover was wanted before setting 
it up, and is unlikely to have set up the cover  or started the charges for it without  getting  their 
permission first.
Mr and Mrs S say this didnt happen.  They  say they didnt agree to the cover. And they say 
the reason Santander cant provide an application  form, or something they signed to agree 
to the cover,  is because they didnt  agree  to the cover.  But Ive explained why the absence  
of a PPI application isnt enough to persuade me on this point.
Mr and Mrs S remember discussing the PPI with Santander and saying they didnt want it. 
They say they were aware  the PPI wasnt something  they needed to take with the mortgage  
and they recall discussing between them whether to carry  on with the cover before they met 
with Santander   having had it on an earlier mortgage. They recall feeling  strongly  that the 
Ref: DRN82940462cover wasnt  worth  it because their mortgage was small and was interest  only and there was 
government help available  for interest  payments if need be. Ive thought about this carefully. 
But apart from Mr and Mrs Ss recollections, I havent seen anything that makes me think  
Santander set up the cover  without telling Mr and Mrs S or without getting their permission 
like I think Santander normally wouldve. Also, the level of benefit here suggests the policy 
was taken to help not only with mortgage  expenses but with the loss of income Mr S might 
experience in general if he were to suffer unemployment. So Mr and Mrs Ss points about 
the relatively low level of the mortgage  costs dont persuade me that at the time of the sale 
they didnt want  or agree  to take the PPI cover that was set up here.
Taking everything into account,  on balance what I have isnt enough to make me think 
Santander started the cover without Mr and Mrs Ss agreement. But I acknowledge this isnt 
how Mr and Mrs S recollect the sale.
If Santander sold the PPI on an advised  basis, it had to do more and check  the PPI was right 
for Mr and Mrs S. Santander  thinks it sold the PPI on an advised  basis.  So I think  its fair to 
assess the case on that basis  as it places on Santander more  responsibility for the sale.  
But based  on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time, I think  the cover  
was right for them. For example Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions on or limits to 
the cover   like any restrictions applying to those on fixed  term contracts for example. So he 
couldve claimed on the cover if the circumstances arose. And Mr and Mrs S seem to have 
had a need for the cover. From what Mr and Mrs S have  told us, Mr S was entitled to less 
than twelve months pay from his employer if he were made  redundant. And although theyve 
said family members couldve helped them with their mortgage payments, other peoples 
circumstances and ability to help can change.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But, taking into account what Ive already said about  the cover  being right 
for them, I havent seen  anything  to make me think clearer information wouldve  changed  the 
decision Mr and Mrs S made about  taking  the cover.
Ive taken into account all Mr and Mrs Ss comments, including what theyve said about how 
Mr S didnt review his bank statements in detail until recently and didnt pick up on the PPI, 
and the loan to value  ratio being  low. But, for the reasons Ive already given above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion. 
What Ive said above means Santander doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs S. 
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs S about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN82940463Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs S any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs S the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs S 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Santander has to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs S can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs S.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs S any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8294046