K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about what Virgin Money plc did when she applied  for a credit card 
account.
background
Miss B applied for a credit card with Virgin in January. She said that she intended to buy a 
tablet which  was on sale then. But the card didnt  arrive.  Miss B said that she rang after a 
couple of weeks,  and found  out that Virgin had sent the card to the wrong address, and to a 
postcode that didnt  exist. 
Miss B said that Virgin told her it would cancel the card and send her a new one. But she 
only got the PIN, no card arrived. 
Miss B complained, and eventually got the card. But she said that the tablet would cost her 
more now. She wanted Virgin to pay £100  towards the cost of the tablet.
Virgin didnt think that what had gone  wrong was its fault. It said that Miss B had provided 
the incorrect street name on her application. The card had been returned to it.
But Miss B said that the address prepopulated, and she thought that it was Virgins  fault that 
this mistake hadnt been picked up. She thought Virgin shouldve realised that the street 
name and the postcode didnt match. She was very concerned that Virgin seemed happy to 
lend her £6,000,  on the basis of a street name and postcode that didnt match. 
Miss B said the card couldve ended up with someone else, and shed  have had difficulty  
proving she didnt get it. Miss B said this was a particular concern for her, as shed had a 
problem with a missing item before, and faced difficulties proving something wasnt received.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that Miss B appeared to have  supplied  the 
correct postcode and door number, and Virgin should take responsibility for its system  
processing incorrect information. Our adjudicator  didnt know why Virgins  system would pick 
up and verify  an address  that Miss B didnt provide. 
Our adjudicator said that there was a breach of confidentiality because Miss Bs card was 
sent to an address that she didnt live at. Our adjudicator didnt think  Virgin  had to pay the 
extra cost for the tablet  that Miss B was trying  to buy, but he did think  she should be 
compensated for the breach of confidentiality that had occurred, as well as the time and 
inconvenience this situation has caused  her. 
Miss B agreed with our adjudicator, but Virgin didnt.  It thought  that Miss Bs browser had 
auto-completed the wrong  address details. As the house number and the postcode were 
correct, the street name  mistake didnt trigger an error when credit checks were done. Virgin 
said it had considered whether it had a problem  with its systems, and it didnt think  it had. It 
wanted an ombudsman  to consider this case, so it was passed  to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
Ref: DRN89501332-I listed the things  I needed to think about in this case. What went wrong, so that Virgin 
got the wrong address? Should  Virgin have realised the address was wrong? Did Virgin 
breach Miss Bs confidentiality?  And how did it respond when she told it about the 
problems she was having? I said Id look at each of those things in turn.
-Firstly, I thought about what went wrong, so that Virgin ended up with an address for 
Miss B that included  the right house  number, and the right postcode, but the wrong street 
name. Miss B said this was Virgins fault. 
-I knew addresses sometimes  go wrong,  if you input a postcode and search  on that. But if 
this was Virgins mistake, then it would be an unusual and odd coincidence for Virgins  
website to complete  this form with Miss Bs old street name, as part of her new address.
-Virgin said that if Miss B had lived at this address before, then it may be that her browser 
has auto completed the address.  I said that in my experience,  this could cause problems 
with form filling. If you accept an autocompleted form entry, sometimes  the browser goes 
back and it changes  what you input  earlier. And if you have more  than one saved 
address, then accepting  an autocomplete, for example just selecting  your surname when 
your browser  suggests that to you to complete a box on a form, can then mean that 
some other parts of the form change,  to a different address. 
-Because Miss B lived at this street address  before,  I thought that was more likely  to be 
what happened here. That meant  that it wasnt Virgins fault that it ended up with an 
address for Miss B that included the right house  number,  and the right postcode,  but the 
wrong street address.
-I also thought  about whether Virgin shouldve realised that the street  address was wrong.  
I thought Virgin had explained why the address mistake wasnt picked up as part of the 
credit checks. It uses the door number, and the postcode as identifiers when  its running  
a credit check. It uses a number of other items  of Miss Bs personal information too, but 
not the street name. So if the street name was wrong, that wouldnt mean Miss B would 
fail a credit check. 
-I knew Virgin didnt think it did anything wrong, but it did open  a credit card in Miss Bs 
name, with £6,000  of credit, and post it out to an address that didnt exist. And although  
Virgin said it was sure it was lending money to Miss B, it had set up a system that 
apparently allowed  this error to go undetected. I thought Virgin  then had to carry some  
responsibility when  something like this goes wrong. I said Id come  back  to this point.
-I thought about  whether Virgin breached Miss Bs confidentiality. And I didnt  think that 
there was likely to have been a breach of confidentiality in this case. Miss Bs card was 
posted out to an address that doesnt exist. It was returned to Virgin.  Id not seen 
anything to suggest the envelope  was opened,  or that any personal or financial details  of 
Miss B were obtained  by anyone.
-Then I moved on to considering what Virgin did when Miss B told it about this problem. I 
thought it was worth noting that I could  entirely understand why Miss B was worried 
about this. Miss B said that, whatever had gone wrong, Virgin  shouldnt  have sent a card 
out to an address that doesnt  exist. I thought it was reasonable for her to be concerned 
that Virgin didnt  notice this mistake  at all. 
Ref: DRN89501333-I also needed to bear in mind that Miss B told Virgin that she had great difficulty  in the 
past, proving that she didnt receive  something sent to her address. She thought that this 
was the same, and if this credit  card had gone  astray, it couldve been  used,  then shed 
have been forced to try to prove  that she didnt  get it. Miss B was concerned she might  
have ended up being liable to pay back £6,000 of credit  that she hadnt used.
-I didnt think that was likely to be what wouldve happened if someone  else had got this 
card. Virgins website says cards  have to be activated before they are used, so I thought 
it was more likely that this card wouldve been  useless  to someone else. I thought  Miss B 
may have found it reassuring  to be told that, particularly as she had already told Virgin  
that this was the first credit card shed applied for. 
-Virgin did say it had fraud prevention strategies. But it didnt explain what  those were. It 
focused on this being a hypothetical  concern, because the card had been returned.
-I thought that was unfortunate,  because Virgin probably had a good, reassuring answer 
to Miss Bs concern about what wouldve  happened  if someone else had got her card. 
This wasnt an entirely hypothetical  concern,  given  that Virgin had sent the card to an 
incorrect address. I thought it was a reasonable concern for Miss B to express.  Shed 
told Virgin why she was worried,  and that this was her first credit  card.  I thought that in 
this case, Virgin  shouldve done  rather more  to reassure Miss B than it did. 
-I didnt think Virgin caused the error in Miss Bs address. And I knew  it didnt think  it had 
done anything  wrong, and that there was nothing wrong  with its systems. But, as Id 
explained above, I didnt think I could endorse  that conclusion completely, given what  we 
knew happened in this case.  
-Id thought about all the evidence carefully.  I thought Virgin  issuing a card in Miss Bs 
name to an address  which  didnt exist caused  Miss B concern. And I thought Virgins  
response to this then,  unfortunately, caused Miss B additional concern. So I thought 
Virgin should pay Miss B some compensation to make up for that unnecessary  worry. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Miss B replied  to say she thought Virgin  should  pay more, and Virgin replied to say it didnt 
think it should have  to pay anything.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Miss B set out for us again her position  that she hadnt supplied an incorrect  address.  She 
still thought it was a glitch  in the system. Miss B said that when she complained,  Virgin was 
unhelpful. It told her she couldnt  just close the card, the full amount of any balance transfer, 
plus the processing fee, would all have  to be paid. But she still didnt have the card.  
Miss B said that Virgin had suggested  £100  as compensation, when she first contacted it, 
because shed mentioned that something she wanted to buy had gone  up by that much. She 
still thought that this amount would  be the fairest outcome to this complaint. 
Ref: DRN89501334I didnt think that this mistake was caused  by Virgin, and although Ive considered what  Miss 
B has said now, I still dont think that. I think its most likely that part of her application  was 
automatically completed with data stored  in her browser.  Thats  not Virgins fault. 
I thought Virgin should pay Miss B compensation for the worry it caused her. Virgin  
disagreed. It didnt think there had been a data breach. It didnt think  it was responsible for 
the incorrect data.  It said that it had noted  my comments about any system failing on its part, 
and would share that feedback internally. 
But Virgin thought that when Miss B rang it, she was mainly complaining about the address 
error, which she thought  Virgin was responsible for. So it didnt think that it should pay £50 
for failing to reassure  Miss B, when  that wasnt really her complaint. It said it couldnt 
comment on Miss Bs previous experience with undelivered goods. It couldnt  provide her 
with the reassurance she sought,  because  it couldnt agree there was a fault with its system. 
And it said that it thought the excessive  time shed spent on calls was because  she broke off 
at one point to deal with a work  issue. 
Virgins response to my provisional decision focusses on areas  where Ive already agreed  
with it, or said its not at fault. But I made my recommendation that Virgin  pay Miss B for two 
reasons. Firstly, because I thought that Virgin must carry some responsibility  for the fact that 
it had issued Miss B a card,  to an incorrect address. That worried Miss B. And I then thought  
that, although Miss B told Virgin she was worried, and explained this was because  of the 
problems shed experienced before, Virgin didnt take the chance to reassure her. Instead, I 
felt it probably made things worse. 
Miss Bs concerns over the missing card, and what could happen to it, were  always part of 
her complaint. I dont  think it would  be right to say that this complaint shouldnt  be upheld  at 
all, even if I agreed with Virgin that the issue Im upholding wasnt the core of her complaint. 
I still think, for those  reasons, that a payment of £50 provides  a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint.  Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Virgin Money  plc must  pay Miss B £50 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 August 2019
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8950133