K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the sale of two mortgage protection  plans with critical illness 
cover by HSBC UK Bank Plc in 2002. They say they were  put under  pressure  by the 
business to take out the cover in order to obtain  their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B also say the 
cover was unnecessary  as they had existing  life cover and income protection policies and 
the cost was excessive.
background
Mr and Mrs B met with an adviser in 2002.  They  were looking to transfer their endowment 
mortgage and take out a further  equity release loan. They were recommended an 
endowment mortgage  with a 10 year term for part of the borrowing and a capital  repayment  
mortgage with a 19 year term for the rest.
Mr and Mrs B were  also recommended a joint life and critical illness  cover  policy  to cover the 
capital repayment  mortgage. But they decided to take out two single life and critical illness 
cover policies.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs B complained to the business. They  said the recommended policies 
were unnecessary as they had existing protection policies. Mr and Mrs B said they were 
pressured into taking  out the policies. They also questioned the level of cover needed for 
Mrs B given she earned a lot less than Mr B. 
The business didnt  uphold their complaint. It said at the time the policies were taken out 
having life cover in place  was not a condition of its lending. It also said it had never required 
critical illness cover to be in place as a condition of lending. The business  said it was 
satisfied taking into account the information  provided at the point of sale and the meetings 
that had taken place that the policies had been explained to Mr and Mrs B. It said the 
policies were suitable for their needs  at the time. 
The business noted that Mr and Mrs B had existing life policies but they had indicated they 
were intending  to cancel them. It agreed that Mrs B had a lower income but said that didnt 
make her cover unsuitable as her policy was designed to pay off the mortgage so the 
amount of cover was not calculated  in reference to income. 
Mr and Mrs B then referred their complaint  to our service. They reiterated that they were 
pressured into taking  out the policies. Mr and Mrs B said they had existing  cover  and 
although they had considered cancelling three of the life policies they had decided  against it 
on the advice  of the business. They also said if they had known the business  had calculated 
the premiums based on an assumed interest rate of 10 percent they wouldnt have taken out 
the policies.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He noted that 
the endowment  mortgage had been covered by an existing  policy  with life cover.  But he said 
the remaining  life cover held by Mr and Mrs B didnt cover the term and full amount of the 
capital repayment  liability. He noted  it was recorded that Mr and Mrs B were intending to 
cancel the life policies with company A. 
Ref: DRN81527012The adjudicator didnt think the policies  were unsuitable as he felt Mr and Mrs B had a need 
for life and critical illness protection given the circumstances. He took into account the 
permanent health  policies referred  to by Mr and Mrs B which provided an income  but he said 
this was a different type of benefit  from the mortgage protection  plans. 
He noted that Mr and Mrs B had not accepted all the recommendations made by the 
business and he was not convinced they had been pressured into taking out these policies. 
Overall he didnt think the policies recommended were unsuitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked  for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for 
review. They  said that the fact find was wholly inaccurate in recording that they were 
intending on cancelling their existing life policies with company A. Mr and Mrs B said they 
hadnt cancelled  those policies and it was recorded that the adviser had recommended  they 
keep them for family protection.  They  said all the points raised on their complaint had not 
been taken into account.
The adjudicator responded and said he had considered the points raised but remained of the 
same view. He said the existing policies referred to were  whole-of-life policies which  wouldnt 
have been suitable protection for the mortgage. He also said that the point of sale 
documentation recorded that Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with their existing policies with 
company A due to the premium increases. He referred to information which showed those 
policies were cancelled  in 2005.
Mr and Mrs B said that the information  merely showed they had continued  to pay premiums  
on those policies until 2005. They said they had taken out new life cover  policies in 2003 and 
2005. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs B have raised a number of 
issues which I have considered. I have addressed the points I consider to be most relevant 
to their complaint  in more detail.
Mr and Mrs B were  looking  to transfer an existing  mortgage and take out a further loan. They  
met with the business who recommended an endowment mortgage and a capital repayment 
mortgage. There was a discussion about their protection needs. 
A fact find was completed which recorded  Mr and Mrs B s financial circumstances and 
objectives. Two meetings took place  and a summary  of the recommendations made  by the 
adviser was produced. It was recorded  that Mr and Mrs B had asked for the advice in the 
financial review to be restricted to mortgage  planning and supporting protection.  
Mr and Mr B had an existing endowment policy so the business recommended they keep 
that policy to protect the endowment mortgage. It also recommended  they take out a joint life 
and critical illness policy for same term (19 years) as the capital repayment mortgage.  
Ref: DRN81527013Mr and Mrs B were  married, self employed and taking out a significant liability.  So I dont 
think cover  which would provide a lump sum to pay off their mortgage in the event of their 
death or in the event they sustained a critical illness would have been  unnecessary  or 
excessive. It would have  eased the financial burden on the other spouse if any of those 
circumstances had come to pass. The fact find recorded that they wished to ensure  their 
new mortgage is protected for the whole term.
Mr and Mrs B say the cover was unnecessary because they already had life and income 
protection policies  in place.
Income protection policies provide a different kind of protection  to the type of policy 
recommended by the business. They pay a regular income in the event of certain 
circumstances such as accident or sickness. They  dont pay out a lump sum to pay off the 
mortgage and they dont  pay out on death. So I am not convinced  having income protection 
policies in place  would  make life cover  or critical illness cover unnecessary.
The fact find recorded  Mr and Mrs B s existing life policies in some detail and there  are 
references to their existing policies in the notes and in the recommendations letter.  So I think 
it likely  on balance that there was some  meaningful  discussion about the cover they already 
had.
The capital repayment mortgage Mr and Mrs B were  taking out had a term of 19 years. 
Some of their existing policies had a shorter remaining term so they wouldnt have been 
suitable to protect  the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B had some life policies provided by another provider (company A) which  did
cover the relevant period.  However these policies  didnt  cover the full amount of borrowing 
(particularly in relation  to Mrs B who had cover  of around £51,000)  and they didnt provide 
critical illness cover. In addition it was recorded  on the fact find that Mr and Mrs B were 
planning to cancel these policies because they felt they were expensive  as the premiums 
were regularly increasing. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said these policies were index linked  which  would mean the premiums 
would increase as the cover increased.  For a capital repayment mortgage generally  cover 
would start at the full amount of the liability  and then decrease over the term as the liability  
was being reduced. This is on the whole a cost effective way to provide cover to protect  a 
mortgage. Whereas Mr and Mrs Bs existing  life policies provided  cover which was less than 
the new liability and was increasing  over time.
The adviser produced  a copy of her recommendations  in a letter provided to Mr and Mrs B 
which also stated that Mr and Mrs B were looking to cancel  the policies with company A. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for the adviser to recommend policies which were 
specifically designed  for the mortgage protection and provided the correct  amount or cover 
for the correct term. Particularly, as it is recorded  that Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with the 
cost of their existing policies. 
I appreciate the point  made by Mr and Mrs B that the adviser recommended keeping  their 
existing policies for extra  family protection and this is recorded in the recommendations 
letter. They say this is at odds with what is recorded about  their intention to cancel  the 
policies. But I dont  think it is necessarily  a contradiction.
Ref: DRN81527014I don t think it would be unreasonable  to recommend keeping life cover policies for family 
protection as well as having a mortgage  protection plan.  So, if one of the spouses died or 
suffered a critical illness there would be one policy to pay off the mortgage  and another 
policy to provide funds  for financial help with everyday  costs  and expenses.  Mr and Mrs B 
still had the option to cancel those existing policies at a future  date if they decided they no 
longer needed them.
I consider it likely on balance that the recommendations  letter  represented a summary  of the 
discussions that took place at the time. I also note that about three years later Mr and Mrs B 
did cancel their policies  with company A which would support what  was said about them not 
being happy with those  policies. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they were told they had to have the life and critical illness  
policies in place  in order to obtain  their loan. There is nothing  in the point of sale 
documentation or mortgage loan agreement document to suggest this was a condition  of 
obtaining the mortgage. 
This advice  in relation to these policies  is referred  to as a recommendation. I also note that 
not all of the recommendations made by the business were taken up by Mr and Mrs B. For 
instance the adviser recommended  they take out critical illness cover to protect  all the 
borrowing, so including  the endowment portion.  But the adviser  recorded  that Mr and Mrs B 
didnt want to do this as they felt it was too expensive.  So I think Mr and Mrs B were 
engaged in the advice  process rather than just accepting what  they were  told by the adviser.
I also note that it is recorded  on the fact find that the loan approval would be considered first 
and that that this might hold up their application  for protection.
 you will be aware  that your mortgage  will need  to be approved  before your application  can 
be completed and this this may you cause your life application to be delayed . This would 
suggest they didnt have  to have the protection  in place in order to gain the approval  for the 
loan.
There were also two meetings with the business so I dont  think  Mr and Mrs B were  rushed 
into making a decision. I consider they had time to reflect on what  they were  being advised.
I note what has been said about Mrs B having a lower income.  But the amount of cover in 
these products was defined by the amount of the liability  not the life assureds income.
However the policies should have been affordable. Mr and Mrs B s objective was to 
consolidate their debt in order to reduce their monthly outgoings but it seems they had 
sufficient disposable  income at the time to pay for the policies. They also made the choice to 
have two separate policies which was more expensive than a single  joint policy.
Mr and Mrs B have  said the cost of the policies were  excessive. The pricing  of the policies is 
a matter of commercial judgment  for the business. However it was open to Mr and Mrs B to 
shop around to see if they could find a cheaper  policy. There  was nothing  in the 
documentation from the time to say they had to take out a policy  with the business.  
Mr and Mrs B have  also said they wouldnt have taken out the policies if they had known the 
business used  an assumed interest  rate of 10 percent when calculating the premiums for the 
cover. The business will use an assumed  interest rate that it believes will ensure there is 
sufficient cover on the policy to pay off the mortgage throughout the term. That is a matter of 
commercial judgment.  
Ref: DRN81527015I can see Mr and Mrs B were provided with quotations and so I consider they were aware of 
the cost of the cover. If they were unhappy  with this pricing they could have looked 
elsewhere. I am not convinced on balance that the calculation of the premium  would have 
been a deciding factor. 
Overall I dont consider  the life and critical illness cover policies recommended  were 
unsuitable taking  into account Mr and Mrs B s objectives and circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs B s complaint against HSBC  UK Bank 
Plc for the reasons outlined in my decision 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8152701