K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Snap-on Finance UK Limited  visited his place of work to collect  a debt. 
And he also claims it breached his data protection rights by informing his employer of the 
debt.
background
Mr H tells us he took out a hire-purchase  agreement to acquire some  tools  for his work. He 
says that Snap-ons agent visited his workplace when he was off sick and tried to repossess 
his tools. And he states that the agent discussed his account  with his employer and other 
employees. He says he knew this had occurred  because  his employer called at his home 
later that day and told him what had happened. Mr H says hes since left his employment. 
He says hes tried to pay, sort out the direct  debit and get a price for some tools which  are 
missing from his tool box. But he states his calls were ignored. He says hes worried  about 
the implications for his credit record.
Snap-on told us its customers typically receive its services at their place of work  as it 
provides a fully stocked  van of tools and equipment. It says payments are often collected at 
the same  time. It said there had been  problems, over several months,  in collecting direct 
debit payments from Mr H. And when  its agent  had called at Mr Hs work premises in 
January 2019  hed been informed that Mr H no longer  worked there. On a later visit hed 
tried to recover the tools which Mr H had acquired  on the agreement - but the employer had 
refused. It said it had no knowledge of what had been discussed between its agent  and the 
employer but it would  be a natural conclusion for the employer to assume Mr H had 
defaulted on the debt. It told us that later that day Mr H had made  a payment and promised 
to make a further payment in February. It said apart from receiving a complaint in March its 
not been able to contact  Mr H since. But it accepts  its agent didnt call back Mr H as theyd 
been concerned  about  the about the earlier matter with Mr Hs employer.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said part of the 
terms and conditions of the agreement meant it as reasonable for Snap-on to visit the 
workplace.
Well collect  the amount  that you owe under the agreement on the due date either by direct  
debit or when your Snap-on Dealer  calls at your premises, or by another means  agreed  
between you and us.
And she didnt think the representative had discussed Mr Hs account with his employer. She 
thought the employer had assumed  the representative was seeking to collect a payment - as 
that was normal  practice.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome. He questioned whether the investigator understood 
data protection  law. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman has 
been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN80855892I can understand Mr Hs concern if he thought  Snap-on had discussed aspects of his private
finances with his ex -employer. But I must  make  clear its not for me to determine if a breach 
of data protection law has occurred.  The Information Commissioners Office deals with 
alleged breaches  of data protection laws.  What I can do is decide if Snap-on  has dealt fairly 
with Mr H in its attempts  to collect the debt owing  on this account.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
The main  thrust of Mr Hs complaint seems to be an alleged  data breach and the fact that 
Snap-on agents  visited his former  place of employment and tried to repossess the tools  
which hed acquired  through the finance agreement.
Hes also mentioned concerns about  what effect the issues which have arisen  might  have  on 
his credit file. But Ive not been provided with any evidence  regarding this - and I dont think 
Snap-on has been asked to address this specific issue. So in fairness to Mr H I wont  deal 
with this aspect  - and hell potentially still be able to make a separate  complaint if he feels 
Snap-on has not dealt fairly with any issue which affects his credit file. I should  add that its 
the responsibility of the borrower to ensure payments are maintained  and - where they are 
not - a lender is entitled to report accurate details of account behaviour  to the credit  
reference agencies.
The business model used by Snap-on  typically involves  its agents visiting its customers at 
their place of work. And given the terms of the finance agreement  contain provision for this I 
dont think there was anything wrong  with this. And the agreement makes  clear  that other  
methods of payments are also available. So I infer if Mr H had not been willing to have an 
agent visit his workplace he could have made alternative arrangements.
When the agent visited - during Mr Hs period of sickness  - he obviously had to try and 
establish Mr Hs whereabouts. Its not obvious why he would need to discuss any aspect of 
Mr Hs account or any specific reason why he wanted to speak with Mr H. And whilst Mr H 
says his ex-employer called on him at his home and told him what  had happened Im not 
sure this is enough to show  that any discussion of the account details had taken place.
It would not be surprising if Mr Hs employer knew he (Mr H) had acquired tools through  
Snap -on and so it would  be a reasonable inference  that - when the agent was seeking  to 
contact Mr H - it would be about this. But thats  a long way from saying any discussion took 
place about the account still less that any details  were disclosed. Its common  in a workplace  
situation that colleagues will know some general  personal details about each other. And so 
in given circumstances its quite likely that assumptions (correct or otherwise)  will be drawn.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr H when he said ex-employer knew about the debt on the account. 
But Im not sure whether this was because that individual had simply made  assumptions  - 
which in this instance proved correct - or if hed been told directly by the agent. Ive not seen 
any testimony from either of those  third parties and I cant see any need for the agent to 
discuss specific details. Given the ambiguity  of the evidence, I dont think its likely that 
information regarding  specific account  detail was disclosed.
Ref: DRN80855893As this was a hire purchase agreement the ownership of the tools  does not pass to Mr H 
until hes paid in full. So I dont think the agent  did anything  wrong  in asking to take the tools 
for safe-keeping. Hed been told Mr H was no longer employed at the premises  and - as the 
tools were seemingly still on the premises - the risks of them being lost were  obvious. If the 
agent had taken the tools Snap-on would still have had to comply with any relevant legal 
obligations in order to formally repossess  them. So I dont think it did anything  wrong  in this 
respect.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr H Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Stephen Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8085589