K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains about his mortgage  with Mortgage Express (ME).  He complains  that:
He pays his mortgage by sending a cheque by post each month  but ME often 
processes the cheque  late, then charges him a £40 arrears  fee for having missed a 
payment. These charges are unfair  and not something he ever agreed to when the 
mortgage was taken out;
ME didnt tell him that his monthly  payment would rise when its interest rate rose in 
August 2018,  meaning he didnt pay enough  the following month;
ME sent a field agent  to his property even though he said he didnt  want  an agent  to 
come out and didnt  agree to be charged, because  he was making  a complaint;
The interest rate he is charged  MEs standard variable rate (SVR) of 5.09% - is 
unfairly high, especially  compared to Bank of England base rate;
ME will not offer him new lower  interest rate products;  
ME has contacted  him so often it amounts to harassment;
ME started legal  proceedings against him after he complained to us.
background
Mr J has a mortgage  originally taken out with another  lender,  and later transferred to ME. 
He has made a number  of complaints  about  the conduct of his mortgage,  which  Ive set out 
above. Mr J has had significant financial problems in the past.  But by 2018  he was in an 
arrangement to repay his arrears, by paying an extra amount each month on top of the 
contractual payment
ME didnt uphold his complaint. It said it wrote to him in August 2018 notifying him of the 
change of rate, which would  take effect from 1 September 2018, and what  his new monthly  
payment would be. If the letter wasnt delivered  to him, ME isnt responsible  for that. 
Because Mr J didnt pay his full revised monthly  payment in September, he was charged  a 
£40 arrears fee. And this also resulted in the agreed arrangement to repay being broken. As 
a result,  ME tried to contact Mr J to discuss his arrears  and sent out a field agent.  
ME said it was unable  to contact Mr J again  for several months, so no new arrangement was 
agreed. So ME instructed its solicitors to bring  possession proceedings  even though Mr J 
was continuing  to pay more than his contractual payment each month. ME said it required an 
agreed arrangement  to be in place to avoid  legal action. 
ME has added £40 arrears fees to the mortgage each month since  October 2018 because  
Mr J isnt in an agreed  arrangement any more. It has also added a field agent fee and 
around £600 in legal fees.
Our investigator didnt  think ME had acted unfairly,  so Mr J asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint. I took a different view, which I explained  in a provisional decision.  I 
said:
Ive looked at the history of Mr Js account.  While there are significant  arrears, and a 
suspended possession order, they appear to relate to financial  difficulties  many  years 
ago. For the last six years or more, Mr J has been  paying  his monthly payment plus 
an additional  amount, generally  £85, to reduce the arrears.
And while he has been paying that amount, ME didnt charge  any arrears fees.
Ref: DRN85979322That all changed in 2018. In August, MEs interest rate went  up, and so Mr Js 
monthly payment  went up too. ME wrote out to all its customers, including  Mr J, 
letting them know what their new monthly payment would be.
Mr J says he didnt receive that letter. I accept  what  he says about that. Post does go 
astray occasionally  its unusual,  but it does happen  and Mr Js actions in sending  
a cheque for the shortfall as soon  as he learned about it support my conclusion that 
he didnt know. However, I do accept too that ME sent the letter.  Mr J says the copy  
weve been given  is a recent  fabrication but theres  no evidence of that and I dont 
think its likely ME did that. I think what happened is that ME sent it, but it got lost in 
the post  and ME isnt to blame for that.
I take MEs point that its Mr Js responsibility to pay the right amount, especially 
when hes not paying by a direct debit that can be adjusted  to take account of 
changes. Its right;  it is his responsibility. And he didnt pay the right amount  in 
September. But equally I dont think that was Mr Js fault; he paid what  he thought 
was the right amount in September, and paid the shortfall in October as soon as he 
learned about it.
I note that ME didnt charge the arrears  fee for the missed payment in September 
until the end of October, after Mr J had made up the shortfall.
I think it was clear from Mr Js conversation with ME that month  that there had been a 
misunderstanding, and that Mr J intended  to pay the full amount he was required to  
as indeed he did once  he knew  about it. I think treating the arrangement as broken, 
and taking possession  proceedings, because of a simple misunderstanding that was 
put right quickly, was unnecessary and an over-reaction. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was fair for ME to treat the arrangement  as 
broken and resume charging  arrears fees. To put things  right,  ME should remove  
these fees from his account. It should  also reinstate the arrangement,  and make  sure 
Mr Js credit file shows that he has been in an agreed arrangement throughout this 
period.
And even  if it was fair to treat the arrangement as broken  I dont think  it was  it 
definitely wasnt fair, in my view, to take possession proceedings. While there were 
arrears, Mr J was still paying not just his monthly payment but the same  amount 
towards the arrears  he had been  paying  for years  and which ME had always been 
prepared to accept  to that point. I think this decision caused Mr J real concern and 
upset, so as well as removing the field agent  and legal fees from Mr Js account, it 
should also pay him £350 compensation.
Mr J also complains about the interest  rate applied to his account.  I can understand 
why hes concerned that he cant  access  new interest rate products, as he may able 
to do with other lenders. But ME is whats known as a closed book lender.  It 
collapsed, and was nationalised, around ten years  ago. Because  its government  
owned, it cant offer new lower interest rates that would compete with other  lenders. 
Its part of the terms of the nationalisation that it only offers a standard variable rate  
which is comparable to the SVRs of other lenders. All MEs other  customers  are in 
the same  position,  and Mr J isnt being  treated any differently to them. 
Ref: DRN85979323It is generally expected  that new interest rates are available when an old one expires 
 but theres no regulatory or contractual  right to a new rate. So I dont think ME has 
done anything  wrong in not offering a new rate to Mr J. The SVR has changed 
broadly in line with changes  to the Bank of England base rate, which  is one of the 
factors the terms and conditions allow ME to take into account when setting the rate. 
I dont think I can fairly  ask ME to create a new interest rate for Mr J.
However, I do recognise that Mr J feels trapped with ME, and is paying more  than 
interest rates he might be able to get with other lenders. While I cant fairly  ask ME to 
change its rate, I think it would be fair  and in line with the good  practice  offered by 
other lenders dealing  with closed and nationalised loan books  for ME to arrange for 
Mr J to receive independent mortgage  advice so he can explore whether its possible 
for him to move to another lender.
Finally, Ive noted above that Mr J pays his mortgage by cheque. The fact that the 
cheques arrive at the very end of the month  or early the following month  hasnt 
helped the position here. In order to avoid future problems, I suggest Mr J try to make 
arrangements to pay the mortgage by direct  debit  or at the very least  make  sure he 
sends cheques to ME in good  time for them to be processed and credited to his 
account before the end of the month.
I concluded by saying that I intended  to require ME to remove all the fees,  and interest on 
them, charged since October 2018, withdraw the legal  proceedings and reinstate  the 
payment arrangement,  as well as correct Mr Js credit file. I also said it should  pay £350 
compensation and arrange for Mr J to receive independent mortgage advice.
Mr J accepted my provisional  decision.  But ME didnt. It said it wasnt fair or reasonable to 
hold it responsible for Mr J not receiving its letter. It said that when it spoke  to Mr J on 
16 October 2018 that he knew about  the arrears and potential  legal action. It said he 
wouldnt discuss a new arrangement and that he wasnt living  in the property. It said it had 
followed its procedure.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  the responses to my 
provisional decision, but I havent changed  my mind.
I didnt hold ME responsible for Mr J not receiving the letter   I said in my provisional 
decision that it wasnt responsible for that. I explained that, given Mr J put matters right by 
making up the shortfall straightaway, the reason for me upholding the complaint was that it 
over-reacted to Mr J underpaying, not that it was responsible for him doing so. I agree that, 
in the call on 16 October 2018, Mr J wasnt willing to discuss the arrangement  until ME 
discussed his mortgage interest  rate with him, and so the call wasnt  very productive.  But 
that doesnt mean it was fair for ME to treat the arrangement as broken and take legal action 
even once he made up the shortfall in the payment.
Mr J has explained  and I have no reason to doubt   that at the time he was temporarily  
staying with his mother nearby  to care for her during a period of illness.  I dont think  that 
whether or not he was living in the property at that time is relevant to the proportionality of 
MEs actions. 
Ref: DRN85979324So Ive considered everything again. Ive taken into account what ME said in reply  to my 
provisional decision. I dont think it was responsible for Mr J not receiving the letter about the 
change to the interest rate. But I dont  think it acted fairly in treating the arrangement as 
broken and taking  legal action even though Mr J made  up the shortfall  almost  immediately. I 
therefore still intend to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
Mortgage Express to:
Remove all arrears  fees, and interest  charged  on them, added to Mr Js mortgage 
since October 2018;
Remove the field agent fees and legal fees added, together with interest charged on 
them, since the same  date, and withdraw  any legal proceedings that it has taken 
since October 2018 which are still active without  cost to Mr J;
Reinstate the previous agreed  arrangement and ensure Mr Js credit file shows  that it 
was always in place;
Make  arrangements for Mr J to receive whole  of market independent regulated 
mortgage advice,  with the cost  if any  to be borne by ME;
Pay Mr J £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
 
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8597932