K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (when  it was trading as Bristol  & West) mis-
sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Bank of Ireland in my decision as it is responsible  for dealing  
with this complaint.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr W took out in 1992 alongside a mortgage.  It 
protected Mr Ws mortgage monthly  repayments in the event of accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold his complaint. Mr W disagreed  with this view.  Mr W is mainly 
concerned that it wasnt made clear to him that PPI was optional. 
my findings
 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
I dont know exactly what was discussed when Mr W bought PPI. It wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect Mr W to remember  all the details  of a conversation  that happened  such a long time 
ago. I have to look at everything and decide,  on balance, what I think is most likely.  
Ive taken carefully into account  Mr Ws comments,  including what hes said about not having 
to actively confirm he wanted to take out the policy in his application and his view that it 
wasnt presented or highlighted as being optional.
Mr Ws mortgage application  includes a section which gives  brief details about the benefits 
of its INCOMESURE protection (this is what Bank  of Ireland called its PPI). Mr W was able 
to indicate here if he didnt want  PPI  this box is left blank on the application he completed.  
So I think it wouldve been clear  from this wording that it was up to Mr W to say if he wanted  
to have PPI with his mortgage. 
And it looks like Mr W didnt take out PPI when  his mortgage started  the mortgage had 
already been running for a couple  of months  without PPI. So at the time,  I think that Mr W 
would've understood that PPI wasnt required as part of the mortgage. 
Ive seen part of the separate application form Mr W completed to have the PPI added to his 
mortgage account. Although the rest of his application isnt any longer  available, Ive seen an 
example of the form he would've had to complete.  This included  providing personal 
information and answering questions designed  to see if he qualified for PPI. And Ive seen 
the completed Incomesure Direct  Debiting Instruction Mr W signed to set up payment 
arrangements for the policy. So it appears that he wanted to have the PPI.
Ref: DRN84271922The insurer  sent a welcome letter  to Mr W confirming hed been accepted for cover and 
enclosing policy information. This letter also included information about his right to cancel 
the policy without  charge  if he didn't  want it after all. Mr W couldve  queried the PPI then if 
this wasnt something he wanted. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt look as if that 
happened.
I can completely understand if Mr W has forgotten  these  details as this happened  such a 
long time ago. But, based on the information  I've seen, I think its likely that Mr W decided  he 
did want the benefits that PPI offered. On balance, I find that he chose to buy the policy 
knowing it was up to him to say if he wanted to take it out.
Bank of Ireland  recommended PPI to Mr W. So it had to take reasonable steps to ensure the 
policy was right for him. Looking at what Mr W has told us about his circumstances at the 
time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation. 
 
Mr W was eligible for the cover. The policy paid out for up to 12 months per claim if Mr W 
was too sick to work or if he lost his job unexpectedly and was involuntarily unemployed. 
After going back  to work for a qualifying period  between each claim, Mr W couldve  claimed  
again under  the policy if hed needed  to. And he couldve kept on doing this for as long as he 
had his mortgage. His mortgage was a substantial financial commitment repayable over a 
number of years. PPI couldve provided  Mr W with long term cover while he was paying for 
his home.  I find that PPI provided Mr W with worthwhile protection.
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if that affected Mr W. 
So, I dont think having more information about those things wouldve put him off taking out 
the policy. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr W when he applied  for the cover.  But the 
cost of the policy was shown  in the welcome letter sent to him and he couldve queried  it 
then if he decided this wasnt  something he wanted  to pay for. And he couldve cancelled 
within 28 days without having  to pay anything if he didnt want  to pay the amount of the 
monthly premiums. I havent  seen  anything to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mr W  especially as it appears  he also took out some extra benefit. So it seems 
he was happy  at the time to pay for the level of benefit he chose. And as he was paying for 
the policy monthly, he could still cancel it at any time without further cost, if his 
circumstances changed or he no longer wanted it.
Its possible there were some failings in the way this policy was sold.  But I think Mr W still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been  better  informed as PPI gave him useful 
protection in his particular situation.  I dont  think  better information  wouldve stopped  him 
buying it. 
This means  I dont  find that Mr W has lost out as a result of anything  that Bank of Ireland  did 
wrong. So theres nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN84271923my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8427192