K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLCs  delays  in sending to her the bank 
statements for March and April 2018 that shed requested.
background
Mrs A needed bank statements in April 2018  for the preceding six months in support of her 
husbands visa application. She had difficulties in obtaining the required statements from 
Barclays, despite a visit to a local branch, a call to customer services and a visit to another 
branch. She then called  Barclays again  and it said that it would change  her statement 
frequency from quarterly  to monthly  and send  her statements from October  2017  to April 
2018. But she only received statements for the period from October 2017 to February 2018. 
She phoned Barclays again  and stressed the importance of receiving the correct statements. 
It agreed to send her ledger statements by recorded  next day delivery  and it paid her £50 
for the distress and inconvenience that shed been  caused. She took the next day off work  to 
hand deliver the statements that she expected to receive. But the statements werent 
delivered to her until three days later  so she wasnt able to deliver them  in support of her 
husbands visa application until after the deadline  for submission of them had expired.
She complained to Barclays and it apologised for what had happened and offered to pay her 
a further £230 compensation  for her time off work, her call costs and the distress and 
inconvenience that shed been caused.  She didnt accept its offer and complained to this 
service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that it was 
clear that Barclays mistakes had caused Mrs A a great deal of distress  and inconvenience.  
And he felt that it would be fair in these  circumstances for it to increase its offer of 
compensation by £150 to compensate Mrs A for that distress  and inconvenience.
Barclays has accepted  the investigators  recommendation. And it says that, in addition to the 
£50 already credited to Mrs As account  and the £230 already offered  to Mrs A, it agrees to 
an additional  distress  and inconvenience award  of £150. 
But Mrs A has asked  for her complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that shes become very depressed,  shes lost her job, she may need to re-apply 
for the visa, shes been caused  a great  deal of stress and her relationship with her husband 
has been strained.  So she says that she should receive compensation  of £3,000.  She said in 
March 2019 that shed  provide further evidence of her financial losses   but she hasnt done  
so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays accepts that it made  mistakes  when dealing with Mrs As request for bank 
statements. It has apologised for those mistakes  and it has credited £50 compensation to 
her account  for the distress and inconvenience that she was caused. And it offered her an 
additional £230 of compensation for her time off work, her call costs and the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused. Its now accepted the investigators recommendation 
that it should pay her a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  that 
Ref: DRN82256332shes been caused. So in addition to the £50 that shes  already received, its agreed to pay 
her £380.
Mrs A says that she should  receive  compensation of £3,000   but she hasnt provided any 
further evidence  of her financial losses. I sympathise with Mrs A for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused in connection  with her husbands visa application. But 
I consider that £430 compensation is fair and reasonable compensation in these 
circumstances for the distress and inconvenience  that Mrs A had been caused by Barclays. 
And Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation  is justified. 
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Barclays to pay a further £380 
compensation to Mrs A (which is in addition to the £50 that it has already  paid to her). But 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs As complaint in part. And I order 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay her a further £380  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8225633