K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) lent irresponsibly to him. 
background
Between May 2016 and December 2016, Mr W took out four loans with Mr Lender.  His 
borrowing history is as follows:  
Loan 
numberDate  taken 
outDate repaidPlanned 
number of 
monthly 
instalmentsPrincipalLargest  
monthly 
instalment  
1 17/05/2016 16/06/2016 3 £250.00 £159.33
2 12/07/2016 13/09/2016 5 £500.00 £189.00
3 14/09/2016 05/10/2016 6 £550.00 £280.86
4 14/12/2016 outstanding 12 £1,000.00 £201.46
From the evidence Mr Lender provided to us, I can see that there appears to be an 
outstanding balance in respect  of loan 4, but it isnt clear whether this outstanding balance  
has been passed to a third party collection agency. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld the complaint in that she didnt think Mr Lender should  have 
lent Loan 4 to Mr W. She said that a proportionate check at that stage would have  shown 
that Mr W had difficulties  managing his money.  She thought Mr Lender  should have known 
by then that Mr W could not sustainably repay Loan 4. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with that view. It said that there were  70 days  between Mr W taking 
out loans 3 and 4 and that showed that Mr W wasnt reliant  on short  term loans. It also said 
this borrowing gap showed that Mr W wasnt using short term loans  to supplement  his 
income.  
Additionally, Mr Lender said that it listened to the telephone call it had with Mr W when he 
took this loan out. It says it asked specific questions about the purpose of this loan and that 
none of the answers Mr W would  have given it cause for concern. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been  passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr Lender could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner.  These  checks  could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
Ref: DRN89286712of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr W could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint.
As I said above, early  in the lending relationship, I wouldnt  necessarily expect Mr Lender to 
have undertaken  a full review of Mr Ws circumstances. Early  on, it is reasonable for 
Mr Lender to rely on what Mr W told it about  his finances, as well as taking into account  any 
other information it had about his circumstances at that time.  
I can see that for loans  1 to 3, Mr Lender asked Mr W to set out his income  and expenditure. 
Based upon the figures that Mr W provided, it reasonably appeared to Mr Lender that he had 
sufficient disposable  income to be able to afford those loans. I can see that it also undertook 
a relatively simple credit check  at the date of the various applications. Ive been given a copy  
of those checks and theres nothing to suggest  that Mr Lender should have had cause for 
concern about  Mr Ws ability to sustainably repay his loans. The checks  it did were  
proportionate at this stage. 
However, by the time Mr W applied for loan 4, I agree with our adjudicator  that Mr Lender 
should have done more.  This was the fourth  loan that Mr W had applied for in just over six 
Ref: DRN89286713months. The amount  he was seeking  to borrow at this stage had quadrupled. He had initially 
borrowed £250 in May 2016. By December  2016,  he borrowed £1,000. 
Over time, Mr W reported to Mr Lender that his expenditure had decreased gradually over 
the period of his borrowing. However,  his indebtedness continued to grow. A reduction in his 
reported expenditure could be inconsistent with an increased need for borrowing. In addition 
to that, I can see that Mr W reported  that his income had reduced when he applied for loan 
4. Taking all of this into account,  Mr Ws increased indebtedness along  with the reported 
changes in his income and expenditure  should have prompted Mr Lender to undertake 
further checks in respect of Mr Ws finances. 
I know that in its response to our adjudicator, Mr Lender said that it asked some more  
questions about  Mr Ws financial circumstances. Although  I havent  been given a copy  of the 
call recording  it referred to, I accept that Mr Lender  did ask a little bit more about Mr Ws 
finances and to check he wasnt using this loan to repay other loans. It also asked whether 
he was reliant on short  term lending. But at this stage, it wasnt  proportionate for Mr Lender 
to simply rely on what Mr W told it about  his circumstances. It should have done more  than 
that. 
Mr Lender also asked  me to consider that there  was a gap of 70 days between  Mr W 
repaying loan 3 and taking out loan 4.  It says this gap shows that Mr W wasnt reliant on 
short-term lending. I disagree. As I set out above,  the quadrupled borrowing in a space of 
just over three months  indicates  that Mr W was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in his income  but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Im satisfied that a proportionate check at loan 4 should have involved a full review of Mr Ws 
financial circumstances. 
So the question  for me now is what would have happened if Mr Lender had undertaken that 
full review. Had it done so, I think it would  have seen that Mr W had taken out a number of 
short-term loans in the month preceding his Mr Lender application. It would have  also seen 
that his expenditure was considerably greater than that which  was declared.  It would have  
also seen that Mr W was spending considerable amounts gambling every month. His ability  
to repay  this loan was likely to be dependent  upon  him gambling successfully. This is not 
sustainable. 
In summary,  if  Mr  Lender had conducted a proportionate check,  it would have been clear   
that Mr W could  not sustainably repay Loan 4. It follows that I am upholding this complaint in 
respect of Loan 4.  Mr Lender will need  to take action  to put things right for Mr W 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender shouldnt have  given Mr W loan 4. 
As I said above, it appears there  is an outstanding balance in respect of this loan. If that is 
the case, if Mr Lender sold the outstanding debt in respect of this loan, it should  buy it back  
if it can and then follow the steps  set out below.  If it cannot buy the debt back,  it must  liaise  
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
a)Mr Lender  must remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance of loan 4, 
and treat any repayments made  by Mr W as though  they had been repayments  of 
the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments  then Mr 
Lender must refund these  overpayments with 8% simple  interest* calculated on the 
Ref: DRN89286714overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. 
b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree 
an affordable repayment  plan with Mr W. It must not pursue outstanding balances 
made up of principal it has already written-off. 
c)Mr Lender  must remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file in 
relation to loan 4.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8928671