K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (Catlin) voided his landlord 
insurance policy and unfairly declined his claim.  
background
Mr K said when he made a claim Catlin declined  it saying  hed lied about problems with his 
tenant and should have  disclosed  this information on the insurance form to renew his policy. 
Mr K said Catlin  was wrong about the renewal date and there  was no dispute at the time.
Catlin said Mr K took out a policy from 20 June 2017 to 19 June 2018. It said on 
11 June 2018  he notified a claim that part of the living room ceiling of his tenanted  property 
had fallen down.  Catlin said its loss adjusters tried but couldnt  contact  Mr K and wrote to 
him on 15 and 19 June 2018. Meanwhile Mr K said he hadnt heard from the loss adjuster. 
Catlin said Mr K renewed his policy on 20 June 2018 and on said he was in dispute  with his 
tenant from 25 June.  Catlin  said he must  have known this when  he renewed, but had 
answered 'no' when  asked, Are there currently  any on-going disputes with tenants (including 
rental arrears or eviction)? Catlin said Mr K confirmed on 2 July 2018 that the eviction 
process started the week before.  It said Mr K was given sufficient warning about the 
importance of providing correct information,  but he hadnt done so. 
Catlin said Mr K made another claim on 27 June 2018, this time for a damaged bath. It said 
its loss adjusters couldnt contact the tenant  and Mr K complained about the delay and 
cancelled his policy on 3 July. On 4 July Catlin told Mr K that due to the on-going dispute 
with his tenant the 2018 policy would be voided from renewal on 20 June 2018 and it 
refunded his premium.
Mr K complained about the delay in progressing the claims and the voidance  of his policy. 
Catlin responded that had it known about  the tenant  dispute  it wouldnt have  renewed  the 
policy. It said it was induced into this by the non-disclosure and thats why the policy would 
be voided and his second claim  wouldnt be considered.  Catlin said this wouldnt affect 
Mr Ks claim under the 2017 policy and thered been  no delay in dealing  with this. 
Mr K said he renewed his policy on 30 May 2018  and there was no ongoing dispute with his 
tenant at the time. He said he hadnt cancelled the policy before it was voided.  He said that 
because Catlin voided his policy, he couldnt get landlord insurance from another  insurer. 
The investigator recommended  the complaint be upheld. He said Catlin thought  the policy  
renewed on 20 June  2018, but Mr K provided renewal information on 30 May.  He said the 
first evidence of a dispute is a claim note from 28 June where Mr K said hed put up the rent 
and thought the tenant may be creating  or finding  damage. He said Mr K asked Catlin  on 
2 July if there was legal cover and said hed given  the tenant notice to quit the week  before.
The investigator didnt  think Catlin had considered all the evidence  before voiding the policy.  
He said it hadnt  asked Mr K to explain  the nature of the dispute or get a timeline  and hadnt  
shown that the dispute  started  before 30 May 2018.  He said Mr K asked to cancel the policy  
before it was voided and so voidance wasnt necessary. He said Catlin  should  tell the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange to remove the record of voidance and show it cancelled by Mr K. 
He said Mr K hadnt been able to secure equivalent insurance since  and Catlin  should pay 
him £200 compensation. He said Catlin dealt  with Mr Ks first claim fairly and without delay.
Ref: DRN88001562Catlin disagreed.  It said evicting a tenant takes time and involves giving two months notice 
and only then can it go to court.  Catlin said Mr K had said he had issued proceedings before 
renewing his policy  and bearing  in mind the process  its likely  he was fully aware of this prior 
to renewal. Catlin thought that as a consequence  of Mr Ks non-disclosure  the voidance  of 
the policy was correct. Catlin requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the available information about the renewal of Mr Ks policy to see if it 
was reasonable  for Catlin to say he had failed to declare a dispute with his tenant, and then 
to void his policy. 
Mr K said he had no dispute with his tenant  when the policy renewed. Mr K lives overseas 
and had a letting agent looking  after the property. So I dont think  he had much contact with 
the tenant other than trying to arrange  entry for the repairs,  and I think  Catlins records 
probably capture  most of the events between itself,  Mr K and his tenant.  
The statement  of fact that records Mr Ks answer to the question  about a dispute with his 
tenant is dated 30 May 2018. The Policy automatically renewed on 20 June. On 27 June  
Mr K told Catlin his tenant may be causing  damage  following a rent increase. And on 2 July 
he asked if he had legal cover as he was evicting  his tenant. He said hed given  the tenant 
notice the week  before and so the tenant  had two months to vacate from that point.
So the first indication of a dispute was when Mr K spoke to Catlin  on 27 June 2018.  He said 
hed issued his tenant an eviction notice  between 25 June to 1 July, and asked  about  legal 
cover for this. Given  the lack of any prior indication of legal action and that Mr K only asked 
about legal  cover on 2 July, I dont think it can be assumed that eviction pre-dated 25 June. 
As the statement of fact was completed  on 30 May, Catlins assumption that Mr K must have 
been aware of a dispute with his tenant at renewal  needs to be strongly founded. In order  to 
do this Catlin  would  have  needed to answer the questions about the events raised by the 
investigator. Perhaps not coincidentally,  some of these questions were  raised  by Catlins  
senor complaints officer in an email of 7 August 2018. In this the complaints officer asked for 
confirmation that Mr Ks 2017 policy hadnt been voided. And asked, What evidence  do we 
have that there is an on-going dispute/eviction?  Are we satisfied that this dispute/eviction  
was on-going when the policy renewed  in 2018?
I havent seen  any satisfactory answers and I find Catlins responses to our service to be 
characterised by suppositions and must haves. Catlin has assumed there  must  have  been  
a prior dispute as these issues can take some  time to develop. But since  the eviction notice 
was given at the end of June when the tenant  was given two months to leave, this is when 
the process began. The evidence doesnt  support Catlins assumption there was a dispute 
before renewal, so I dont think it had reasonable grounds to void the policy.
Im surprised at the effort Catlin has put into persuasion that its version of events must be 
correct, rather than obtaining supporting information.  At one point, Catlin told our investigator 
to obtain this information from Mr K, but given  the serious implications for a policyholder  of 
having their policy voided, Catlin should have secured this information before acting. I think 
Ref: DRN88001563that the absence of supporting evidence makes Catlins position, that Mr K gave false  
information when  he renewed the policy, unsupportable. I havent seen anything to suggest 
that Mr K answered the question about tenant  disputes incorrectly at the time. 
Because I dont think Catlin had adequate  grounds  to state that Mr K has mis-declared his 
circumstances, I dont  think  it acted  fairly  in voiding  his policy. In any event,  Mr K cancelled  
his policy  just prior to the voidance and Catlin should now backdate Mr Ks own cancellation 
of the policy  to 20 June 2018  and remove all records of the voidance. Catlin has correctly  
returned all of Mr Ks premium for the 2018 policy and isnt required to deal with Mr Ks 
second claim. From the records I have seen, I think that Catlin dealt with Mr Ks first claim 
(under his 2017 policy) fairly and without delay.
Mr K said he couldnt get another  landlord  insurance policy  because  of Catlins actions.  I 
agree with the investigator that this would have caused Mr K a degree of inconvenience  and 
frustration and I think Catlin should pay him £200 compensation for this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited  to remove the record  of voidance from its 
own, and the Claims  and Underwriting Exchange database. I require XL Catlin  Insurance  
Company UK Limited to write to Mr K to confirm that the record  of voidance has been 
removed, and to pay him £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  hes been 
caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8800156