K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  record details of his accounts with it on his 
credit file. He says this meant he couldnt  apply  for a mortgage and cost him money. Hed 
like compensation.
background
Mr K opened  a current account  with HSBC in June  2018. He has said he later took out a 
credit card and loan with HSBC as well. 
In September  2018, Mr K contacted HSBC to find out why his accounts with it werent 
showing on his credit file. He made a number of phone calls over the following three months  
or so and visited a branch. He told HSBC  the matter was urgent because  he wanted to make 
a mortgage application. He says he was given various timescales  and assurances,  but the 
problem wasnt fixed.
Mr K had an appointment with HSBC in early  November  2018 to discuss  a mortgage 
application  but was told he couldnt  go ahead with it because his credit file wasnt  up-to-
date. He says hed intended  to buy the property he was renting (at less than market  value)  
but was unable to do so and had to move  out, incurring costs. 
Following our involvement, HSBC said a technical problem had affected Mr Ks accounts, 
and it had tried to update his credit file. 
Our investigator thought it had taken longer than it should have done for HSBC  to update Mr 
Ks credit file. She also found  that HSBC hadnt  told Mr K what was happening or when he 
could expect the problem to be fixed  even though Mr K had told it the matter was urgent. 
The investigator concluded that Mr K had been  caused  a lot of unnecessary  worry and 
distress, so she said HSBC should  pay him £400  by way of compensation. She also 
proposed it cover his costs for subscribing to credit reference agencies while this matter  was 
ongoing. But she didnt  think  it was fair to ask HSBC to pay for the costs Mr K said he had 
incurred in moving house, because she couldnt  say that it was this one thing going wrong 
that caused things to fall through.
HSBC thought the award the investigator  had proposed was too high, and Mr K thought  it 
wasnt nearly enough. In March  2019, Mr K confirmed that his HSBC accounts were  finally  
showing on his credit file. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator.
It took well over six months for Mr Ks accounts to appear on his credit file, which I think is 
much longer  than Mr K might reasonably have expected. It appears that HSBC  had a 
technical problem  which affected his accounts.  Sometimes that sort of thing  cant  be 
avoided, but I think its clear that Mr K was very concerned about his credit  file and he 
understandably wanted the information on it to be right. He made a lot of calls to HSBC  over 
Ref: DRN89542832a period of months to try and get this sorted,  and was given various  different information  
about timescales and even  a form he had to fill in. 
I find nothing to indicate that HSBC  told Mr K there was a technical  issue or gave him 
accurate information  about how long it would take to fix. Mr K had told HSBC  about the 
pending mortgage application which made this matter so important to him, and HSBC said 
the application couldnt go ahead  because of the credit  file problem. I think its clear  that Mr 
K was caused a good deal of upset, inconvenience, and frustration. In all the circumstances 
 but also bearing  in mind that the awards this service makes  arent  intended to fine or 
punish financial businesses  I think £400 is a fair award of compensation to reflect  the 
impact of what happened on Mr K.
However, I share the investigators view that its far from certain Mr Ks property purchase 
would have progressed  to completion but for the problem with his credit file. There are many 
factors involved in a mortgage application  process and buying a property. So I dont consider 
I can fairly require HSBC to compensate Mr K for the costs he says he incurred because  he 
had to move  out of his rental  property.
I think HSBC should  also refund  the costs of Mr Ks subscriptions to credit reference 
agencies, given the length of time it took for his credit file to be corrected. Based on what  Mr 
K and HSBC have  told us, those costs are seven  months at £14.99  and five months  at 
£7.95. So Im directing  HSBC to pay Mr K £150, in addition to the £400 set out above,  to 
cover those costs and interest on them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, HSBC  UK Bank  
Plc should pay Mr K £550 by way of compensation. 
HSBC must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Income tax may be payable on this interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8954283