K821x#15complaint
Mr Ks unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc closed  his business credit card account. 
He says he didnt  receive  its communications and wants  the account  reinstated.
background
NatWest said in its final response that itd spoken  to Mr K about the account arrears and 
hed been made aware of what would happen if it remained in arrears. But as it hadnt 
received any payments  after December 2018  itd issued a default notification  in the post in 
February 2019. Its not its fault if Mr K didnt receive this. A termination  notice was issued in 
March 2019 and Mr K contacted it. Even so its not possible to remove  the termination  on the 
account. The account has been closed  in accordance with its terms and conditions. As a 
gesture of goodwill it has credited £96 of charges and waived the late and over limit fees on 
the March 2019 statement.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. She said:
It isnt for us to tell NatWest who it should offer services to. But in this case  it hasnt 
closed Mr Ks account in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr K says he didnt receive  the default  notice  sent on 4 February  2019.  But on 
balance it appears NatWest sent it and its not NatWests fault if he didnt receive it. 
The termination notice  was sent five weeks later on 12 March 2019.
The accounts terms and conditions say NatWest can end the agreement for any 
reason by giving  at least two months  notice  before the date it wants  to end it. Or if 
theres a breach of the terms of the agreement in a material  it can terminate  the 
account by giving notice in accordance with any legal requirements.
In this case two months  notice  wasnt given. And NatWest  has neither explained 
what the material breach was nor the legal  notice period. As such  she cant say the 
account was closed in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Re-opening the account is not necessary  but NatWest should pay £100 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused especially given Mr Ks 
health issues at the time, which it was aware  of. 
Neither Mr K nor NatWest  have responded to the investigators view.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
NatWest hasnt shown  that it closed the account in line with its terms and conditions. It didnt 
close it on two months  notice and hasnt identified  any material  breach of its terms by Mr K 
or said what the legal  notice  period  is.
Ref: DRN84587792Mr K would like the account to be re-instated but I dont  think I can reasonably  require 
NatWest to do so. Its up to NatWest to decide  who it deals with and that is not something 
we will normally  interfere with. And even if I now required it to reopen  the account  it may only 
be for a short period  as it could just terminate  it again on two months notice.
But I think the way NatWest has handled matters  has caused Mr K some distress and 
inconvenience which has been made  worse  by his health issues, which were known to 
NatWest.
NatWest has already, as a gesture  of goodwill, refunded and waived some charges. Thats 
fair. But I think in addition to this its also reasonable for it to pay Mr K some compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. Taking everything into account, 
including the level of awards we make I agree with the investigator that its fair and 
reasonable for NatWest to also pay Mr K the sum of £100 compensation for this.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right National Westminster Bank Plc should  pay Mr K 
the sum of £100 compensation.
NatWest must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr K 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If NatWest considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr K how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8458779