K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Savings and Investments  (NS&I) didnt follow all of his 
redemption instructions. And he received  a poor level of service when he complained.
background
Mr B sent instructions to NS&I to deal with two products  he held. He placed both instructions 
in the same envelope. But NSI didnt redeem  his cash ISA. Only one instruction was 
processed. When Mr B contacted NS&I he said it was very unhelpful. And he was told he 
shouldnt have put both instructions in the same envelope.
Mr B is unhappy with the level of customer service he received. So hed like £1000 
compensation.
NS&I apologised  for the error which meant Mr Bs repayment request had been overlooked. 
The ISA was repaid on 11 December. And itd added 8% interest to the delayed payment. 
So the extra  amount was £325.20. NS&I said itd added a further £200 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with NS&Is response. So he contacted our service  and our adjudicator 
looked into the matter. He could see Mr B was extremely  unhappy with the service  hed 
received after the repayment had been delayed.  But he felt NS&I had dealt with Mr Bs 
complaint fairly. 
He could see Mr B had been  upset when he spoke to NS&I.  But he did think  NS&I had tried 
to be helpful. And itd apologised for its poor explanation of how it would need to sort things 
out. So he felt the interest  and additional  compensation was the right amount for any distress  
caused to Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree. He didnt think the compensation was sufficient for the admitted  service 
failings. So hes asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand how frustrating this mustve been for Mr B. He sent instructions for two 
NS&I products to be redeemed in November 2018.  But only one instruction was carried  out. 
And Mr B is unhappy with the level of service  he received when he asked whatd  happened.  
So Ive looked  very carefully at everything  Mr B and NS&I have said. And what more,  if 
anything, NS&I need to do to put things right.
I can see Mr Bs cash ISA shouldve matured on 14 November 2018. But the repayment  
request was overlooked. And Mr B didnt get the proceeds until 12 December. So its only 
right that Mr B be compensated  for any lost interest.
NS&I calculated the additional  interest as £325.20 for the month Mr B was without his funds. 
And its used our suggested  interest  rate of 8% for the calculation. So I think  NS&I took the 
right approach to compensate Mr B for any financial loss.
Ref: DRN84675102Mr B is also unhappy with the service he received when he tried to sort things out. So Ive 
listened to the calls between Mr B and NS&I. And I do appreciate his frustration. NS&I tried 
to explain what procedures it would  have to follow to release his funds. The ISA had rolled 
over so it would  have to redeem the policy. And that would normally  mean there  would be a 
redemption penalty.  NS&I said it would waive the penalty. But as Mr B pointed out it wasnt  
his fault the ISA had been rolled over. So he shouldnt have to worry about  any penalties.
NS&I did apologise  to Mr B for the poor choice of words. And I agree it couldve been 
explained things  a little better. NS&I  was trying to clarify what steps it would have to take to 
put things right. But Mr B just wanted to hear he was getting his money  back. He didnt  care 
what NS&I had to do to release his funds.
Mr B feels  he didnt  receive a very good  service from NS&I. It didnt redeem one of his two 
investments. And it suggested he shouldnt have put both requests in the same envelope  
even though there doesnt seem to be a policy forbidding it. 
But its not the role of this service to punish businesses for their mistakes.  We award  what 
we think is fair and reasonable. 
NS&I has apologised  for its mistake. And its compensated Mr B for the lost income on his 
redemption proceeds.  NS&I also paid Mr B an additional £200 for any distress caused.
I realise Mr B feels that isnt enough. But its the sort of amount I wouldve recommended  if 
NS&I hadnt agreed  to pay Mr B compensation. And its in line with the sort of award  our 
service normally makes.  So I think NS&I responded appropriately to Mr Bs complaint. And I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8467510