K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc placed a block on his debit card so he 
couldnt make transactions and later cancelled  his debit card.
To settle matters hed like to know why this was done and compensation.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 21 November 2018, a copy  extract of which  is attached 
and which  forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to uphold  Mr Bs complaint in 
part. I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision.
Mr B has replied. He asked whether  this service can only award compensation for direct  
financial loss. So hes asked whether this service  can take inconvenience  into account. 
HSBC hasnt submitted  any further  information for me consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  Mr B but he hasnt provided  any new information that 
causes me to change  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision. The £150  is for 
Mr Bs non-financial losses  when  his card was cancelled without his consent. But I dont 
consider it appropriate to award any further compensation because  Im of the opinion  HSBC 
wasnt responsible  for the cancellation of the recurring transactions  for the reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint in part. And I intend to direct  HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay £150  compensation to Mr B.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84748052copy extract of provisional decision 
complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC Bank Plc placed a block on his debit card so he 
couldnt make transactions and later cancelled  his debit card.
To settle matters hed like to know why this was done and compensation.
background
Mr B says he tried to make a transaction  three  times in July 2017  but found  he couldnt. He 
later found  out his debit card had been cancelled and at the same  time several regular 
payments from his account  also stopped.  This was very inconvenient for him as he was 
due to move  overseas for a few weeks.
Mr B says he was sent a text asking him to contact  HSBC. When he did so he was told that 
HSBC thought his debit  card had been compromised  and that his card would  be cancelled. 
But HSBC agreed  to let Mr B use his card with restricted access as he was due to 
temporarily relocate  overseas and needed  to use his card.  Mr B later found out his debit card 
had been cancelled.
Mr B complained to HSBC but his complaint wasnt upheld. HSBC  explained that itd 
received information  that Mr Bs debit card had been compromised. But for security reasons 
it wasnt able to tell Mr B why his card was identified  as being at high risk. It said it would 
consider evidence of
direct financial  losses suffered by Mr B due to his card being  cancelled.
Mr B remained unhappy with HSBCs response so he referred  his complaint to this service.  
When our adjudicator looked  at the complaint he concluded that:-
    the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account  allow HSBC to block  a card if it has a 
suspicion of fraud. And HSBC hadnt acted unfairly by not informing Mr B of the 
exact reasons of its suspicions;
    hed seen no evidence that Mr Bs regular monthly payments had been affected 
by this issue. And he noted  that Mr B was able to use his card to make transfers 
to a currency provider, as hed wanted  to, in the period between raising his 
complaint and when  his new card was activated.
    HSBC  should  pay £150 compensation because itd cancelled  Mr Bs card without 
his consent.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. He says he had regular payments which 
stopped when his card was cancelled and this hadnt been dealt with. In response,  
another adjudicator looked  into matters.  She appreciated that Mr B wanted further 
compensation because hed spent  time learning  how to use a new music platform  when 
his existing subscription was stopped and that he didnt have immediate access to his 
funds. But she thought  the £150 suggested  was fair because  HSBC  is able to block  a 
transaction if it doesnt believe it to be genuine or if it believes the card to be 
compromised. But she said shed review  Mr Bs complaint again if he was able to provide  
evidence of the financial losses hed suffered.
Mr B provided further information about  the payments which  he said stopped around the 
same time his card was cancelled. So in light of this our adjudicator asked HSBC for further  
Ref: DRN84748053information. HSBC  said the reason the regular payments stopped  was because of the way 
theyd been set up by the retailers and not because of any action  on HSBCs part. And Mr B 
only needed to contact  the retailers to arrange new payments.
The adjudicator thought  there was evidence that some of Mr Bs regular payments had 
been affected when his card was cancelled. And he thought HSBC hadnt done  anything 
to help when  Mr B complained and that this was a difficult time for him due to his 
temporary relocation overseas. He thought HSBC should have informed  Mr B that 
cancelling the card would lead to certain payments being  cancelled and that Mr B should  
have been told to contact  the retailers he was paying to provide his new card details.
To resolve matters, the adjudicator recommended that HSBC should  pay Mr B an additional 
£250 - on top of the £150 that theyd already agreed  to pay.
HSBC disagrees with this and has asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It can sometimes be difficult to say what the right  amount  of compensation should be. 
But Im of the opinion that the £150  compensation recommended by the first two 
adjudicators fairly compensates  Mr B for the trouble  and upset caused when his card was 
cancelled without his consent. I realise Mr B will be disappointed by this so Ill explain 
why.
I appreciate Mr B is frustrated that HSBC cant tell him why it believed  his debit card had 
been compromised. But I cant say that HSBC did anything wrong here - it explained it 
couldnt provide  this information due the sensitive nature of the fraud prevention process  
and because it could  prejudice on-going investigations.
Ive seen no evidence  that B consented to his card being cancelled. When Mr B called 
HSBC he made clear that he didnt  want his card to be cancelled. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest Mr B later agreed to this happening. Due to Mr Bs objections  HSBC agreed 
towards the end of the call that he could continue to use his card but with certain 
restrictions. And I can see that Mr B was able to continue to access  his account in the 
period between the cancellation of his debit card and the activation  of his new card.  And I 
can also see that Mr B was able to transfer money to a currency provider, as hed wanted. 
So although  all of this impacted on Mr B Im satisfied he was still able to use his account, 
albeit with restrictions.
payments that stopped around  the same time as Mr Bs card was cancelled
Ive looked at statements  and I can see that certain payments stopped at around the same 
time as Mr  Bs card was cancelled. But Im of the opinion that HSBC isnt at fault here so Ill 
explain why.
HSBC provided confirmation that Mr B had no direct  debits from his account.  There were 
a few standing  orders but none  of these  related  to Mr Bs complaint. I realise that Mr B 
expected his subscriptions and charitable  donation to continue, but these payments will 
have been set up between the retailers concerned and Mr B. And this isnt something  
HSBC had any control over.
Ref: DRN84748054HSBCs position is that these werent  set up properly as recurring  transactions  by the 
retailers and Im inclined  to agree with this because  usually  continuous  payment authorities  
continue to be taken even  if a debit card is cancelled. Even if Im wrong about this, Im not 
persuaded that Mr B has suffered any direct financial losses that require me to increase the 
compensation to more than £150  for the reasons I explain below.
One of Mr Bs subscriptions was purchased for the benefit of a family member. So Mr B 
hasnt personally  suffered  any upset in not being able to use the service.  And I am not1 
aware that hes suffered  any financial loss.
Mr B says he used another subscription  for his work and that the material hed created was 
erased. So he had to spend time creating an account with another  provider and reproducing 
the content. I appreciate Mr Bs concerns, but I dont consider  it appropriate  to make  any 
additional award here because he has mitigated the situation by recreating the material  - as 
Id expect him to, and also because we dont  generally make awards to compensate 
consumers for their time.
In terms of the charitable donation that Mr B says stopped when  his debit card was 
cancelled, I can see he might have been embarrassed when the charity told him his 
payment hadnt  been received. But Mr B then made alternative arrangements  with the 
charity and didnt suffer  any financial loss himself.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. And I intend to 
direct HSBC Bank Plc to pay £150  compensation to Mr B.
1 the original incorrectly  stated And now I am aware that hes suffered  any financial loss
Ref: DRN8474805