K820x#14Complaint
Mrs P complains that her husband was sold pension arrangements  by Lloyds Bank  PLC that 
failed to meet his requirements at a time when  he was vulnerable.
Background
When Mr P and his wife met with a representative  from Lloyds in 2010 he had been 
diagnosed with a degenerative neurological disease. Lloyds have provided this service  with 
a copy of their documents from the time and Mrs P on behalf of her husbands estate has 
provided details  of her recollection.
Its agreed that four Scottish Widows  pension plans were transferred to Lloyds using the 
open market option. Mr P took a tax free lump sum of £23,773.91.  Given Mr Ps diagnosis,  
he was entitled  to an enhanced annuity  (regular income payment increased due to his ill-
health). He went ahead and an annuity of £5,063 a year overall  was purchased.  The 
protected rights element  was guaranteed for 5 years with a 50% spouses provision (as was 
required); but the non-protected  rights element was guaranteed for ten years.  This meant 
that if Mr P died before ten years had passed,  then the payments were  guaranteed to be 
made for ten years  after they started.
Mr P died in October  2018. Shortly after this his wife complained to Lloyds as she believes 
this was when  she found out that part of his annuity  payment would cease in February  2020  
as there  were no widows rights attached. Mrs P didnt think her husband would have agreed 
to the arrangements  if hed been fully fit.
Mrs P thinks  her husband had been  vulnerable at the time he made his choices. She said his 
life expectancy was poor and his ability to think  clearly had been compromised. 
Mrs P asked Lloyds to investigate why hed been sold the plan when there was no likelihood 
of him recouping  the value of the plan. She felt hed been rushed into making  a decision, 
particularly due to imminent  changes in the law. She accepted they had wanted to enjoy the 
time they had left. But she thought  Mr P had never been  told that part of his pension would 
cease after ten years or on his death. She thought that due to his mental capacity this ought  
to have been explained to him in plain English. Mrs P also thought  that the Lloyds adviser  
would have been motivated by commission benefits.
Lloyds didnt agree. They  thought the documents  from the time demonstrated that Mr and 
Mrs P had attended each  meeting together and been provided with full information, 
explanations and adequate time to consider the choices. Lloyds thought that the information  
from the time supported this and that it showed Mr Ps reasoning.
Lloyds particularly pointed  to the process that had taken  place.  A form had been  completed 
on 1 February 2010 recording Mr P said he wanted to take his pension  now as he had a 
degenerative disease.  This led to a referral  to a relevant adviser. A fact find meeting and 
document was prepared  on 11 February 2010, and a written  report  with information and 
recommendations of 23 February 2010 had followed. There was then a further meeting on 1 
March 2010 and applications  were  signed on the day. 
The initial purpose  of the February meeting was said to be that Mr Ps diagnosis  meant he 
was keen to take benefits ahead of legislation change in April 2010 (the age when benefits  
could be taken early  was rising and this would have directly impacted on Mr P). The files 
Ref: DRN89397012record that Mr P understood he could be entitled to an enhanced annuity  and wanted  to take 
his income to enable  him and his wife to enjoy their time together  whilst his health  allowed. 
The retirement options form completed, confirmed Mr P wanted the payments to continue  for 
as long as possible; but he didnt want to look into income escalation as he wanted the 
maximum income immediately. The information  sets out that they didnt want a continuing 
income for Mrs P as the spouse (save as required by statute) as Mrs P had her own 
pension.
Lloyds also set out that although a commission payment would have been reflected in the 
quote, this wasnt  received  directly by the adviser,  as their advisers were salaried and didnt 
receive commission payments.
An investigator at this service looked at Mrs Ps complaint;  but didnt think  it could be upheld. 
The investigator thought Lloyds hadnt  done anything wrong and had provided suitable 
advice which  had been explained  and met Mr and Mrs Ps requirements at the time. The 
investigator also set out why drawdown  wouldnt have been  available.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I am sorry  as I imagine this will disappoint  Mrs P, but I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong. 
Ive looked with care at everything that has been  provided, and I think the Lloyds adviser  
provided suitable advice and explanations to enable  Mr P to make  an informed choice. Ive 
seen what was recorded at the time and think the advice met what  Mr P set out as his 
requirements. Ive seen Mrs P was present at the meetings and I have also seen there was 
time between meetings  and the provision  of information that I think  was adequate  to enable 
Mr and Mrs P to reflect on the options  and raise any questions. 
I have no doubt  that both Mr and Mrs P were facing a difficult  and uncertain future  at the 
time Mr P chose to take these pension benefits.  I also have no doubt  that Mr P was worried  
about his wife. But I tend to accept  that the reasoning provided at the time, for Mr P to take 
part of his annuity payments at the highest level that could be achieved early on, to enable  
him to enjoy  his time with his wife, wasnt unsound.  
I say this having seen that Mr Ps diagnosis provided him with an enhanced annuity,  so his 
annuity was of a high amount that would have otherwise been available,  to reflect his 
anticipated reduction in his life expectancy.  I have also taken into account that part of Mr Ps 
annuity would continue for his wife, and also the fact she had her own pension  
arrangements. I am sure Mrs P understands that had Mr P selected  a spouses pension  to 
the non-protected elements of his pension fund, then this would have changed the level of 
annuity (despite  still being  enhanced) that would  have been available.  In the same way that 
choosing an escalating sum would have lowered  what  was immediately available. I think  this 
was set out clearly  enough in what was provided and I tend to accept that Mr P was keen to 
access the maximum sum with this element early on. It doesnt  mean  there werent other  
options available,  but I dont think this option  was necessarily unsuitable  in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN89397013I understand Mrs Ps disappointment on her husbands  behalf that she feels that he would 
never have  lived long enough to recoup the value of his original  pension  fund that was used 
to buy the annuity.  But this is the way annuities work.  A provider sets out the level of annuity  
that can be bought with the fund available. When assessing what  level the provider is willing 
to offer,  they will take into account the degree of uncertainty  on a number  of factors;  
including the length of time the annuity will need to be paid to the customer. Once  an annuity 
is set up, the provider  is required to pay the annuity  for the remainder  of the customers  life. I 
understand that following  Mr Ps diagnosis there will have been  a great deal of uncertainty 
and worry about  his life expectancy. 
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think there was any unwarranted pressure of time 
applied to Mr and Mrs P to make their selections  before  the law changed in 2010. But I 
accept that had Mr P not made his selections  prior to the change,  it doesnt  appear he would 
have been able to take his benefits. I havent seen anything that suggests to me hed been 
given a prognosis of that his condition was likely to be terminal within the next 12 months, 
which would have been the other available option  had he wanted to access benefits  on the 
grounds of his health at the time.
Ive looked with care at the documents provided to Mr P and his wife at the time. I think they 
set out the options and explanations clearly enough.  I think the report  set out and confirmed 
that a spouses pension  was not included for the non-protected rights  element of Mr Ps 
annuity and so would cease on Mr Ps death or only be paid for the selected guaranteed  
period (ten years) in a way that was clear enough  and sufficiently highlighted.
I understand Mrs P thinks her husbands  mental capacity impaired his decision making. But I 
havent seen anything that makes  me think the adviser ought to have concluded Mr P was 
incapable of understanding or making  his own decisions at the time. And I think here Mrs Ps 
presence at the meetings, at this difficult time,  would  have reasonably  reassured the adviser 
that Mrs P was involved and there is nothing to suggest any concerns were raised at the 
time on this.
Ive seen what has been said about  commission and I accept that no commission  payments 
would have been made directly to the adviser. I dont think this means  necessarily that an 
adviser might not get some type of performance related benefit  in relation to their work. But I 
have not made any enquiries about  whether this was the case here, as I dont consider the 
answer would  change my decision. I dont think Mr Ps choices were  unsuitable  for his 
personal circumstances at the time and I dont  think Lloyds  did anything  wrong.
I am sorry,  particularly as I appreciate that it will be around the time Mrs P receives my 
decision that the part of her husbands  annuity payment relating to the non-protected rights  
element is apparently due to cease. 
Final decision
So for the reasons provided, I dont  uphold this complaint made  on behalf of Mr Ps estate 
against the Lloyds Bank  PLC. Under our rules, Im required  to ask Mrs P on behalf  of Mr Ps 
estate, to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8939701