K820x#14complaint
Ms S complained she had been  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) with some 
loans she took out with Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays). Barclays upheld her complaint 
but Ms S isnt happy with what  Barclays  has done  with the compensation.
background
Ms Ss complaint is about the sale of PPI with three  loans taken out with Barclays.  The last 
of these loans  was taken out in March 2004, to be repaid in March  2011.
In 2018 Barclays  agreed that PPI had been  mis-sold  with these loans and offered to pay 
compensation. But Ms S had been  declared bankrupt in 2008. So Barclays  paid the 
compensation to Ms Ss trustee in bankruptcy, the Official Receiver.
Ms S doesnt think this is fair as she says she was discharged from the bankruptcy in 
August 2009.  So she thinks the compensation shouldve been paid directly  to her as her 
debts have all been put behind her after the bankruptcy closed. 
Our adjudicator said what Barclays  had done  was fair. Ms S didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S took out her first loan with Barclays in November 2001 and at the same time bought a 
PPI policy. On 16 March  2004  Ms S took out another  loan and repaid the first loan, again 
taking out a PPI policy  with loan 2. But within three  days Ms S cancelled loan 2 and on 
19 March 2004  she took out a larger loan and again bought a PPI policy.
The cost of each  PPI policy was added to each loan. But the PPI cost for loan 2 was fully 
refunded as it was cancelled  after three days,  when Ms S refinanced  again. So PPI was only 
actually paid with loans 1 and 3.
When Ms S complained the PPI was mis-sold Barclays upheld  her complaint and worked out 
the compensation she should get to refund all the costs of the PPI Ms S had paid. Ms S had 
also made a successful claim on the policy so Barclays deducted the amount of the claim 
from the compensation. This left just over £5,250 in compensation to be paid.
Barclays has provided evidence to show it issued a cheque for this amount to the Official 
Receiver in 2018.  The Official Receiver has joined as a party to this complaint as they have 
an interest in the outcome.
Ms S hasnt raised any concerns about  the amount of the compensation and how Barclays  
has calculated it. But I have looked  at what it has done and I think how it has worked  out the 
compensation, and the amount paid, is fair. 
When Ms S entered into her bankruptcy  order  the Official Receiver took control of her 
financial matters, including all her debts  and her assets. Ms S had not at the time of her 
bankruptcy paid in full for her third loan, so this was part of the bankruptcy.  The PPI costs 
Ref: DRN85750902that she had paid for before she became bankrupt are classed as an asset in her 
bankruptcy.  
When a business  has mis-sold a policy to a consumer Id expect it to put things right by 
putting that consumer, as far as possible, in the financial position theyd be in now if they 
hadnt been sold that PPI. I think that is what Barclays has done here.
All of the loans  and PPI were taken  out before Ms S was declared bankrupt.  
When a bankruptcy  ends  it means even if there was still money owing  on Ms Ss debts the 
business could  not chase  Ms S or actively seek to recover the money  still owing. However it 
doesnt mean that debt does not exist. 
Any assets of Ms S would  be used towards  outstanding debts at the time of the bankruptcy. 
The PPI compensation was an asset  of Ms S that existed before  the bankruptcy,  although it 
hadnt been converted into an amount at that time.  So it is fair it is paid to the Official 
Receiver who should get all assets of Ms S that existed before August 2009  when her 
bankruptcy was discharged. 
So I dont  think that Barclays has done anything wrong. 
If Ms S has any concerns with the Official Receiver  about the payment, she would need to 
take those up with the Official Receiver  and I cannot  make  any comment  on that 
arrangement. 
my final decision
I think what Barclays Bank UK PLC has done  with the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is 
fair and Im not directing  it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8575090