K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains Great Lakes Insurance SE provided a poor service  when  he made a claim 
on his home  emergency  policy.
background
In March 2018, Mr B reported he had no heating or hot water. Great  lakes sent an engineer 
to attend that same  evening. The engineer couldnt  identify the problem so a further 
appointment was carried  out within a couple of days.
The engineer thought  the flue could be blocked  with snow,  so tried to release this by 
applying hot water to the outside of the flue. No further action was taken at Mr Bs property.
Around a week  later, Great Lakes tried to contact  Mr B to check  whether the problem was 
resolved. But it was unsuccessful in making  contact. A few days after that Mr B complained 
to Great  Lakes. He wasnt happy with the engineer who had attended his property, he said 
hed climbed on his furniture to access the flue and had used his son to give him tools. He 
also said the engineer had asked  him to fill out a job sheet for him which  he didnt think was 
appropriate.
Later on in that month, Mr B advised there  were  further issues with his boiler. Great  Lakes 
attended again and some repairs were  carried out to fix the issue.
In response to Mr Bs complaint, Great Lakes didnt  think it had done anything wrong in how 
it had tried to resolve the issue with the heating and hot water.  But it accepted  the actions of 
the engineer might  have caused offence, so it offered  Mr B £50 in compensation.
Our investigator thought Great Lakes should  offer Mr B a further £50 compensation. He said 
it wasnt clear  why no further action was taken after the second visit, but Great  Lakes 
internal notes suggest the engineer thought he didnt  need to go back to Mr Bs property as 
frozen pipes werent  covered. He said this wasnt the case and so had resulted in a delay in 
Mr B being  contacted.
Mr B didnt accept that, he said his family  had suffered without heating and hot water for 
weeks as a result of Great Lakes actions and the stress caused had affected his pre-
existing medical condition. He said the fact that Great Lakes later attended to carry out 
repairs showed the engineer didnt initially diagnose  the fault correctly. He thought  £500 was 
a more appropriate amount of compensation.
Great Lakes also didnt  agree to the investigators  findings. It said even though it hadnt 
attended again, Mr B hadnt chased  Great Lakes. It said if he still didnt have heating it would 
have expected him to get back  in touch sooner. And when he contacted  Great Lakes to 
complain around two weeks after the claim  was first raised, he didnt mention that he was 
still without heating or hot water. 
As neither party agreed, the matter has come  to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN83662662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ive explained  why below.
I understand Mr B was very upset  by the actions  of the contractor, he thought  he was 
unprofessional and was very concerned about  his conduct. But Great  Lakes has already 
apologised for any unintended offence and offered Mr B £50 to recognise this. And given 
what Ive seen I think this is sufficient; the engineer  was in Mr Bs property for around  half an 
hour only, so the distress  caused was for a relatively  short  period of time. 
But I do think Great Lakes could have communicated with Mr B better after the second  visit. 
It seems  Mr B was waiting for another follow up appointment, as the issue  remained 
unresolved at that stage. But Great Lakes engineer thought he didnt have to attend  as 
frozen pipes werent  covered. Great Lakes did try and contact Mr B later,  but this was more 
than a week after the second  visit. Mr B has explained hes suffered from mental health 
issues and the uncertainty  and worry of not knowing if Great  Lakes were coming back  
caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. I think  a further £50 to recognise  this 
is a fair resolution.
Mr B said he was without heating and hot water for the whole of March as a result of     
Great Lakes not coming back to the property. He said hed been chasing  the engineers to 
come back  but he didnt hear anything.
Ive listened to the call Mr B had with Great Lakes in mid-March, when he raised his 
complaint about  the engineer. In this call the handler  at Great  Lakes asks if another  
contractor has come out. Mr B says they havent  but he had his own engineer  come  and look 
at the boiler. In this call, Mr B says there  is nothing  wrong with his boiler  and he confirmed 
he was only without heating for around three  days.  Great Lakes asked if he had a report  
from his own engineer so it could reimburse  the cost,  but Mr B said he didnt have one. 
Based on this call, I think Great Lakes were  reasonable in not carrying out further work to  
Mr Bs property.  And Im satisfied Mr B wasnt left without heating and hot water for the 
month of March as a result of Great Lakes failure to act. Mr B had confirmed the boiler was 
working and his main  concern in this call was relating to the inappropriate actions of the 
engineer, which Great Lakes then dealt with. 
Around two weeks  later, Mr B made a further  call to Great  Lakes. Ive listened to this 
recording and he said his heating  would  come on for around five minutes and then go off, 
and his hot water wasnt working. Its not clear  from the call how long this issue had been 
going on for. But I can see Great Lakes attended  again two days  later and a few days  after 
that, repairs were carried out.
Mr B has said this shows the first engineer misdiagnosed the problem,  and had he done a 
proper repair  the first time it would have avoided further issues.
Ref: DRN83662663Ive looked at Great Lakes notes from its call outs. And based on what Ive seen  I dont think  
theres enough to say Great Lakes  initially misdiagnosed the problem. It seems Mr Bs 
heating and hot water was at least temporarily  restored after the first call out, as Mr B 
confirmed it was. And he also had his own engineer look at the boiler. Whilst Mr B hasnt  
provided a report from this engineer, his comments were that hed said there wasnt an issue 
with his boiler. So I dont think its likely the fault later diagnosed  was present at the start of 
March.
Great Lakes engineer who attended  at the end of March said the issue  was with the fan 
assembly and the electrics which operate the boiler. He said its unlikely either of these were 
caused by snow  and so not linked to the original issue. I havent seen anything which makes 
me think otherwise,  so on balance Im satisfied Great  Lakes werent at fault for not finding 
the issue sooner  than it did. Because of this I dont think more  compensation should be paid 
for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to pay Mr B £100  compensation, 
less any amount its already paid.
Great Lakes Insurance SE must  pay the compensation within  28 days  of the date on which  
we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Great Lakes Insurance SE to take off tax from this 
interest. Great Lakes  Insurance SE must give Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN8366266