K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr C was given nine loans by Satsuma between August  2016  and June  2018.  Each  of the 
loans was due to be repaid in weekly or monthly instalments. Mr C has repaid all his 
borrowing from Satsuma and a summary  of that borrowing is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  Agreed 
Term
1 14/08/2016 01/02/2017 £   340 26 Weeks
2 03/02/2017 05/09/2017 £   550 12 Months
3 08/07/2017 05/09/2017 £   500 9 Months
4 26/10/2017 28/01/2018 £   100 3 Months
5 16/12/2017 30/03/2018 £   200 10 Months
6 28/01/2018 13/03/2018 £   640 12 Months
7 14/03/2018 30/03/2018 £   140 12 Months
8 01/04/2018 11/08/2018 £   570 12 Months
9 09/06/2018 11/08/2018 £   800 12 Months
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think Satsuma 
had been wrong  to give the first four loans  to Mr C. But she didnt think the remaining loans 
should have been agreed. So she asked Satsuma  to pay Mr C some  compensation.
Satsuma didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr C accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
Ref: DRN84119622the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies about other 
credit repayments that Mr C would need to make over the coming months  and it validated  
his other  expenditure against  its own internal models. It then used this information to 
calculate how much  disposable income  Mr C had left over each month.  Satsuma also used 
the credit  reference  agency checks to gather some more information  about Mr Cs financial 
situation at that time. Ive seen a summary  of the results of those checks  and they dont 
show anything that I think should have caused  additional concerns to the lender.
The repayments that Mr C had agreed  to make on his first four loans were relatively modest 
compared to the income that hed declared to Satsuma. I have taken account of the fact that 
Mr C was given loan 3 when loan 2 was still outstanding and so hed need to repay  both 
loans at the same time. But even so, the repayments appeared to be easily affordable  based  
on the disposable income that Satsuma had calculated. So given these repayment amounts, 
what was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time,  and his borrowing history with 
the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first four loans. 
Ref: DRN84119623I do think, by the time Mr C asked for loan 5, that Satsuma should have realised that it 
couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances.  I think it should 
have taken steps at that time to independently verify Mr Cs true financial position.  So Ive 
looked at copies of Mr Cs bank statements from around that time to see what better checks  
would have shown  Satsuma. I can see that Mr C was spending significant amounts of 
money around that time on what appear to be online gambling transactions. I think,  had it 
seen those transactions, that Satsuma should have concluded it was unlikely that Mr C 
would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable manner. So I dont  think  Satsuma should 
have given loan 5 to Mr C.
Looking at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr C I think  by loan 6 the 
lender should  reasonably have seen that further lending  was unsustainable, or otherwise  
harmful. And so Satsuma should  have realised that it shouldnt  provide any further loans. 
I say this because:
By the time Mr C asked for loan 6 hed been borrowing from Satsuma for a lengthy 
period and he wasnt making  any inroads  to the amount  he owed the lender. Loan 6 
was by far the largest  loan hed taken to date. 
From  loan 6 onwards  Mr C was provided  with a new loan typically  within a few days  
of settling a previous  one. And at times  Mr C had more  than one loan outstanding.  So 
Satsuma ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr C was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Cs indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr C lost out because Satsuma  continued to provide borrowing  from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Cs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Cs 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So I dont  think Satsuma  should have agreed to lend to Mr C from loan 5 onwards. Satsuma 
needs to pay Mr C some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Satsuma should have agreed  to lend to Mr C after,  and including,  the loan that 
he took on 16 December  2017 (loan 5). So for each of those loans Satsuma should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr C on the loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Ref: DRN84119624Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loan 5.
The number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 9 should be removed from Mr Cs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma  to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma  must  
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold some of Mr Cs complaint and direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411962