K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  The policy  
was sold by a different  business, but Santander  UK Plc (Santander) is now responsible  for 
the sale. To keep things  simple, I will refer to Santander as the seller throughout this 
decision. 
Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a PPI policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in 1999  sometime after taking out a mortgage. They say 
applied for the PPI policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs R for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £260 a month  towards 
Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim.  The benefit was split 
between them on a 50/50 basis  so 50% was payable for Mr R, and 50% was payable for 
Mrs R.  At the time, it cost £13.50 a month.  
At the time,  Mr R says he was employed as a supervisor. Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage 
application form which was completed shortly before  the sale of PPI shows  he was 
employed as a technical operator. He has told us he was entitled to sick pay, death in 
service benefit and redundancy pay through his employer. But he didnt have any other 
means of repaying  their mortgage should he be unable  to work. Mr R has said he was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs R says she was employed as a process  operator which  is also the job set out in their 
mortgage application. She has told us she was also entitled to sick pay, death in service 
benefit and redundancy  pay through her employer. And again, she didnt have any other 
means of repaying  their mortgage should she be unable  to work. Mrs R has said she had a 
medical condition  at the time of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in 2003. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN85174492The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs R 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
Ref: DRN85174493There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN85174494-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Neither Santander nor Mr and Mrs R have been able to provide me with all the documents 
from the time of sale. I dont think thats unreasonable given how long ago the policy was 
sold. But it does mean I have limited information about the sale,  so Ive had to decide what  I 
think is more likely  based on the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage application which  had a section for PPI. There 
were options  to either take PPI, decline  it or request further information. On Mr and Mrs Rs 
form, the option requesting further  information  has been ticked. The form was signed in 
September 1998 and their mortgage completed  in November 1998  PPI was not taken out 
during this time. But as theyd taken the mortgage  without PPI, I think Mr and Mrs R 
wouldve known that PPI was an optional and separate product. 
Santander says the PPI started on 29 January 1999   at the same time as Mr and Mrs R 
switched their mortgage rate. Santander is unable  to confirm how Mr and Mrs R completed 
the PPI application given  the time thats  passed,  and they no longer hold a copy  of the 
application form if one was completed. Mr and Mrs R say they applied for it in branch.  
Based on what Mr and Mrs R have said, Santander  has provided a sample  copy  of the PPI 
application form it was using around  the time they applied for PPI. This sample shows 
customers had to select the benefit  amount they required, how they wanted the benefit to be 
split between them, as well as signing  a declaration  agreeing to take the PPI. Santanders 
records show the benefit amount Mr and Mrs R requested was £260 and the benefit was 
split between them on a 50/50 basis. Santander says PPI wouldnt  have  been  added without 
their explicit  consent, and without evidence to the contrary, I think thats  likely  to be right,
I can also see from Santanders  records that Mrs R made a successful claim for sickness in 
2001 receiving  £1,560  in benefit. This to me shows they were  aware  they had PPI. Had they 
not agreed to take it, I wouldve expected them  to have  questioned why it had been added  
once they discovered  it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN85174495did Santander provide advice?
As Santander doesnt know  how the policy was sold, it doesnt  know if it provided advice 
during the sale.  And Mr and Mrs R have also not said whether they believe advice was 
provided. Based on Mr and Mrs Rs testimony  that it was sold in branch, Santander  has 
treated this case as an advised sale. This holds  Santander to a higher standard  as this 
means Santander had to advise Mr and Mrs R with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances. So, 
Ive also done  the same and assessed  this case  as an advised sale. 
the advice
As explained above, I dont know what (if any) steps Santander took to establish whether the 
policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R. It seems Mr and Mrs R cant 
remember clearly what  happened  and there  is no record  of what  the adviser discussed in 
relation to the policy. The adviser would likely have had some limited information  about 
Mr and Mrs Rs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the 
adviser took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs R would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr and 
Mrs R had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs R given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs R, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs R met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs R had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Rs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr or Mrs R were  not working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for 
employee benefits they say they would  have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs R. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Rs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mrs R has told us about a medical  condition she had at the time of sale, but she 
hasnt told us she needed any time off work  because of it and she appears  to have 
managed it with medication. So, I dont think this made  the policy  unsuitable. And as 
explained above, she did subsequently  make a claim for sickness.  And Mr R didnt 
have any medical conditions at the time of sale. There were  also no additional  
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any 
occupation condition,  the requirement that Mr and Mrs R be disabled or unemployed 
Ref: DRN85174496for 30 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs R be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs R 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs R were unable to work  through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs R 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. They requested more information about  PPI when they applied 
for their mortgage and subsequently applied  for PPI cover  so I think its likely they were  
provided with some  information about  the PPI. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs R, Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs R all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Rs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
Ref: DRN85174497poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs R? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs R suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs R. So, I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs R suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs R, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs R have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs R would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs R say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs R had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
Ref: DRN85174498As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Santander told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs R applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs R 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with Santander  at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they say they agreed to the 
policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Santander made  clear exactly  what  Mr and Mrs R would get 
back in return in the event they made  a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Rs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the 
policy actually did. Mrs R also made  a successful claim for sickness so if the amount shed 
received was less than theyd expected, I wouldve  expected them  to have raised  this at the 
time, and Ive seen  no evidence  that they did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any physical or mental  condition  or disease 
which Mr and Mrs R knew of, or should reasonably  have  known of, on the start date 
of the policy, or for which they had consulted or been treated by a doctor  during  the 
12 months before the start date and which caused disability during the 12 months 
following the start date of the policy;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs R werent  permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs R be 
unable to do their own job or any paid work  which they were reasonably qualified for;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs R pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. As explained above, Mr R didnt have 
any medical conditions.  And although Mrs R says she suffered from a medical condition at 
the time of sale, I dont  think better  information about this exclusion would have put them off 
agreeing to it. I say this because Mrs R hasnt told us she needed any time off work because 
Ref: DRN85174499of this condition  so I dont think she wouldve envisaged needing to make  a claim because of 
it.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs R had known they could only claim for disability if they were not only unable  to 
do their job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view they might reasonably 
be qualified  for, it might  have played  into their thinking about what  they would do. And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking out the 
cover.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but 12 months  was a longer period than Mr and Mrs R would have received full sick pay for 
and their redundancy entitlement  was also likely to be significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would help 
them manage the consequences should Mr and Mrs R be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr and Mrs Rs sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs R were  made redundant,  or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN851744910Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs R found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and Mrs 
R, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1999 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs R and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs R in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN851744911Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8517449