K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt compensated him enough for the poor 
service he got after being the victim of a scam.  Barclays initially  paid him a total of £240.39. 
Mr P says he wants a total of £1,000  (including  the initial amount).
background
The details of the scam over a mobile phone that Mr P was the victim of are known to both 
parties. And Barclays has already paid Mr P the £450 he lost through  this  as a gesture of 
goodwill because (at least) one of its advisors gave Mr P wrong  information.  So there isnt 
any financial  loss to deal with in respect  of the scam   and I dont need to repeat the details 
of what happened  in respect  of it here.
The only issue to resolve is the compensation for the poor service Mr P got from the bank.  
Barclays initially paid Mr P £240.49  made up as follows:
£11.75 to cover any charges he incurred;
£68.64 to cover the cost of his phone calls;
£60.00 to help him manage  financially  until the matter was resolved (as he only had a 
small amount left in his account); and
£100 for the distress and inconvenience he suffered.
Mr P didnt think this was enough  and got in touch with us. One of our investigators looked 
into things for Mr P. And  after listening to a number of phone calls where  it was clear 
Barclays hadnt dealt  with this well  recommended the bank pay Mr P an extra £100  
making £340.49 in total.
Barclays agreed to the investigators recommendation. But Mr P remained unhappy. In 
summary, he says Barclays should pay him a total of £1,000 to recognise the stress this 
situation caused him. Mr Ps looked at our website, which gives  some  guidance on awards 
for distress and inconvenience  and thinks £1,000  is a more appropriate figure. So his 
complaint has been referred to an ombudsman to review  and issue  a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr P feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what hes 
said to both us and Barclays. And thats not surprising.  After all, he was the victim of a cruel  
scam over a new mobile phone he hoped to get.
And its also clear Barclays didnt help matters   either in the run up to when Mr P was 
scammed or afterwards. On several  occasions it gave Mr P misleading information. Thats 
very poor of the bank.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr P that I agree  with the investigators  recommendation in terms 
of increased compensation. I think an extra £100  is a fair and reasonable amount. Indeed, 
theres not a great deal more I can say to Mr P as I think  the investigator  set out the position  
clearly and thoroughly  in his view.
Ref: DRN85191202Having said that, its important I reassure Mr P that Ive considered  his complaint afresh. So 
Ill set out my reasons for agreeing with the investigator.
Ive no reason to think the amounts Barclays has paid Mr P for charges he might have 
incurred and phone call costs are wrong. They  seem  reasonable to me.
Barclays refunded Mr P the £450 hed lost in seven days. I dont think thats  an unduly long 
period of time. I realise Mr P did have some difficulties with his money  during this time. But 
the bank gave him £60 to help with those problems.
Given that Mr P was back in the position  he should have been in seven days,  I think  a total 
award of £200  for the distress and inconvenience Mr P suffered is fair and reasonable. In 
many respects, there is no right answer  in terms of this. But its hard for me to see that Mr P 
suffered anything more  than something towards  the lower end of what our website describes 
as moderate distress  and inconvenience.
I note Barclays indicates that its already paid Mr P the extra  £100  recommended by our 
investigator. So, for the avoidance  of doubt,  the total Im expecting the bank to pay Mr P in 
respect of this matter  is £340.49. Any amounts already paid can be deducted from this sum.
Thats not to suggest Barclays did a good  job here  far from it. The bank clearly made a 
number of mistakes and provided  poor service.  Ive listened to the calls concerned  and 
Barclays has acted poorly on more than one occasion. But it did put Mr P back  in the 
position he should have been in a reasonably short period of time.
Our role isnt to punish  banks (or any financial  business). Its about making sure customers 
are put back in the position they should have been when things go wrong  and receive 
some compensation for upset and difficulties they encounter  until this is done.
I suspect that some  of Mr Ps frustration comes from the fact that he wasnt able to sell his 
existing phone at the time as hed hoped. But thats not something  Barclays  can be 
responsible for. That falls fairly and squarely on the fraudster that scammed Mr P.
I realise Mr P is likely to be disappointed with my decision. He may want to pursue the 
matter through  other means. But my decision brings  to an end what  we, in trying  to resolve 
his dispute with Barclays informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant  help Mr P further on 
this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that Barclays  Bank UK PLC should 
pay Mr P a further £100 compensation  if it has not already done so.
For the avoidance of doubt, the total amount I expect  the bank to pay Mr P in respect of this 
matter is £340.49.  It can deduct any amounts already paid from this sum.
Ref: DRN85191203Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8519120