K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has turned down an 
escape of water claim she made on her contents insurance policy and has voided  the policy.
background
In December 2018, water leaked into Miss Bs home  from the flat above.  It caused damage 
to the walls and ceilings and also to some  of Miss Bs things.  So she made a claim on her 
contents insurance policy.
RSA first appointed a loss adjuster and then a claims  investigator to look into Miss Bs claim. 
The investigator interviewed Miss B and asked her for proof of ownership  for the items  shed 
claimed for. They also asked an electrical specialist to assess  a few of the electrical  items  
Miss B had claimed for. Following these investigations, RSA had some concerns about 
Miss Bs claim. These included:
Miss B said the water had leaked  onto a small unit in Miss Bs flat. RSA didnt  think  
the number of electrical items shed claimed  for couldve all fitted onto it and it didnt 
think the unit was in the path of the water;
The damage to the items the electrical  specialist had inspected  wasnt consistent 
with what Miss B had said had happened;
Miss B wasnt able to provide proof of ownership for a number of things shed 
claimed for and shed  over-exaggerated her claim.
RSA put these concerns to Miss B and it asked  her for an explanation. But it wasnt  satisfied 
by what Miss B said.  So it invoked the fraud condition in her policy.  It told Miss B it was 
cancelling her policy from the date she made the claim and keeping the premiums shed 
paid.
Miss B was unhappy  with RSAs decision and she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. She felt the evidence 
shed seen supported RSAs view that Miss B had exaggerated her claim. So she thought it 
was fair for RSA to invoke  the fraud  condition  and void Miss Bs policy.
Miss B disagreed. She felt upset at the implication that shed lied about whatd happened. 
She said the electrical items had been on the unit, but that theyd been  placed on her sofa 
after the water leak.  She was also unhappy  with the way the claims investigator had handled 
her claim.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  it was fair for RSA 
to void Miss Bs policy and keep  her premiums. Ill explain why.
First, I need to make it clear that Im only looking at Miss Bs contents  claim. I know she has 
suffered damage  to her walls, ceiling and floor  but these form part of a building as theyre 
Ref: DRN85361572fixed to her flat. Miss B doesnt have  buildings insurance cover  with RSA. So it isnt liable for 
any of the costs of repairing the damage  to her flat.
Miss Bs policy includes claims conditions that policyholders need  to comply with. One of 
those says:
If dishonesty, exaggeration or false documentation is used by your family  or anyone acting 
on behalf of you or your family to obtain or support:
 a claims payment  under  your policy,
 cover for which you do not qualify,
 cover at a reduced premium,
all benefits under this policy will be lost, the policy may be invalid, you may not be entitled to 
a refund of premium  and legal action may be taken against you.
RSA had some concerns  about the validity of Miss Bs claim  some of which  Ive set out 
above. These were  first raised by the loss adjuster who looked into Miss Bs claim, so RSA 
decided to appoint  a claims investigator. I think this was a reasonable course  of action for 
RSA to take. Thats because I think it was entitled  to be satisfied that the damage to the 
items had happened in the way Miss B described and that she owned the things she claimed  
for.
The claims investigator had specific concerns about  some of the electrical items Miss B had 
claimed for. In particular,  they had concerns about a games console and a DVD player. So 
RSA arranged for these  to be investigated  by a specialist. The specialists findings on the 
DVD player  in particular  werent consistent with damage from an escape  of water.  It found  
the DVD  player  had had its plug cut off and a dried coffee-coloured liquid stain  on the top, in 
the shape of a games console.  And while the specialist  said the damage to the console was 
consistent with liquid  damage, the claims investigator felt this was down to coffee damage.
Miss B was asked to explain how the DVD player had become damaged  and why it didnt 
have a plug. While Ive noted her explanation,  I think it was fair for RSA to feel that Miss B 
hadnt satisfactorily addressed its concerns. 
RSAs investigator also had concerns about  the size of the unit Miss B had said her items 
were stored on. Neither he nor the loss adjuster thought the unit was big enough to house  
the number of items Miss B had claimed for. And the loss adjuster wasnt  persuaded the unit 
was in the path of the leaking water. I think it was fair for RSA to raise these concerns with 
Miss B and to ask for an explanation. Ive also asked Miss B if she has any photos from 
before the water  leak to show the items on the unit in the way she said.  But she doesnt have 
this evidence.
I think it was fair for RSA to rely on the opinion of its loss adjuster and claims  investigator  
when considering what was likely to have fitted  on the unit and the path of the water.  I say 
this because they had the chance  to look at the unit and the size of the items Miss B had 
claimed for. They also watched the video of the water leak.  So they werent persuaded all of 
the items  Miss B had claimed for couldve  been stored on the unit or have been damaged  by 
the leaking water.
Its clear RSA also had other  concerns about some of the things  Miss B had claimed for. 
These included  a mobile phone which had cracking damage rather  than water  damage. And 
Ref: DRN85361573damage to a sofa which Miss B said was down to putting the damaged items on, but which  
RSA found was consistent  with wear and tear. Again,  Miss B was asked to comment  on 
these concerns. I think it was right to give Miss B a fair chance to answer RSAs concerns. 
And I also think it was reasonable for RSA to feel she hadnt given a satisfactory  explanation 
for how the phone was damaged or whatd happened to the sofa.
Ive also considered whether it was fair for RSA to ask Miss B to provide proof of ownership 
for the things shed  claimed for. We often take the view that expecting a policyholder  to 
provide strict  proof  of ownership for items theyve claimed for is unreasonable.  But, in this 
case, Miss B was able to provide very little evidence that she owned the things she was 
claiming for. And some  of the things didnt belong  to her. So I dont think  RSA was 
unreasonable to conclude  Miss B hadnt  shown sufficient proof of ownership.
It seems  to me that in the round, RSA had a number of concerns about Miss Bs claim. I 
think the key issues  for RSA were the inclusion of the damaged electrical  items and the 
number of things  Miss B claimed for. It seems to me that its these  reasons  that led RSA to 
think the claim had been  exaggerated.
Based on the claims investigators findings and the electrical report, I think  it was reasonable 
for RSA to come to this conclusion. I also think its concerns  havent  been appropriately 
addressed by Miss B. Given those concerns, I think it was appropriate for RSA to rely on the 
fraud condition to void Miss Bs policy. And given the issues the claims investigator raised 
and the lack of proof of ownership,  I wouldve also decided  it was fair to turn down Miss Bs 
claim even  if the policy hadnt  been  cancelled.
Ive also looked  at the Insurance  Act 2015 to check that RSAs policy is in line with the law. 
Im satisfied that the terms of this act state that where a fraudulent  claim has been made, an 
insurer can terminate the contract from the date of the fraudulent act. And it can keep the 
premiums that have been paid. So bearing this in mind, Ive decided  RSA acted fairly by 
voiding the policy from the date Miss B made her claim. And that it was entitled to keep  her 
premiums.
While I appreciate Miss B did go through  a distressing escape of water, which  caused  
damage to her home,  I think RSA has treated her fairly. So Ive decided  RSA doesnt  need to 
do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
Lisa Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85361574
Ref: DRN8536157