K821x#15complaint
Ms Ps complaint is, in summary,  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited did not provide the 
relevant information  about whether she was entitled to more  than 25% tax-free cash, or had 
other guarantees, in the three policies she had with Aviva. This has caused  her to delay her 
retirement and remain  in a cash fund rather than being invested.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 27 February  2020, a copy of which is attached  to and 
forms part of this final decision.
Aviva responded and did not accept my provisional  decision. They  made the following 
points:
A number of different conclusions had been received from this Service.
They did not agree  we were  able to consider Ms Ps complaint she was entitled to a 
tax-free cash sum of more than 25% of the fund value.  Ms P complained  about this in 
2013 and did not refer the matter to this service within  six months of the letter. She 
has a higher understanding of pensions  than most people. 
Ms P had previously  complained about  the adviser in 2001.  A senior management  
decision letter was issued in June 2001  with referral rights to the PIA Ombudsman 
Bureau. 
Information was provided to Ms P in 2007 and again in 2008  about the tax-free  cash  
available and how it was calculated.
Details of the maximum tax-free  cash and final remuneration  have been provided on 
a regular basis. Ms P and later this service  chose  to keep querying the tax-free cash 
available. This did not change.
The information supplied  to Ms P in 2016/17 was the same as information supplied 
since 2007. A complaint about  the information  is therefore outside this services  
jurisdiction.
Ms P had been  provided with information about  the tax-free cash  and it was her 
decision to question  this again.  
They have provided proof that Ms P had historically been provided with clear 
answers to her questions about the tax-free  cash.
They did not agree  with the methodology to assess loss either. It was Ms Ps 
decision to delay  taking her pension benefits until 2018. 
It was Ms Ps decision  to switch  into a deposit  fund in 2016. This contradicts Ms Ps 
actions as she chose  to leave her funds in a safer deposit  fund.
They suggested an alternative method of calculating any loss by establishing a 
critical date of when retirement benefits would have been transferred. 
Ms P replied. She made the following  points:
Rather than use a benchmark  to calculate  her loss, the calculations should  be made 
on the funds she actually invested in.
A start date of 16 January 2017  for the calculations should be used  rather than 1 May 
2017.
Avivas charges should  be taken into account in the calculation.
Ref: DRN84742312The compensation of £200 I intended to award was irreconcilable with the 
consequences of Avivas failures.  She had suffered immense amounts of anxiety, 
stress and loss of money. And the amount was a mere 10% of the charges made by 
Aviva during the period  she is complaining about.
She has raised issues about  another policy, which is not covered in my provisional 
decision.
Additional concerns  had been raised.  I had said these had not been  addressed  and 
she would like to know what this means.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am required to reach my own decision 
about the outcome of this complaint. Although I have considered the opinions expressed by 
others, I have reached my own decision about  what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Ms P raised many issues in her response  to the adjudicator before the complaint was 
passed to me. Most of those issues related  to the way the complaint had been dealt with by 
Aviva and this service. As my view was that the complaint should be upheld, most of those 
issues have either been  addressed by the conclusions  I reached,  or are no longer relevant. I 
have not addressed all of the points raised, but have  explained  the reasons for my decision.
jurisdiction
In 2008 Aviva sent information about the policy to Ms P including  an explanation of how the 
tax-free cash sum would  be calculated. They provided a calculation  and information used to 
calculate the tax-free cash  sum. If that was incorrect, Ms P was asked to send the correct  
information. However, I do not think this gave Ms P knowledge about her current  complaint. 
It is true she could have  provided further information, but this complaint arises  because Ms P 
was asking for details  of what the information could be. 
Ms P had been  querying the amount of tax-free  cash available from her policy  for a number 
of years.  She made a complaint in 2013.  This followed  an incorrect  illustration issued  by 
Aviva. In the final response letter Ms P was told she was not entitled  to more than 25% of 
the fund as tax-free cash. She did not refer her complaint to this service within six months  of 
that letter.
The current  complaint arose because Ms P asked for information  about her pension  benefits. 
In a telephone call with Aviva they explained  that she was not entitled to more  than 25% of 
the pension fund value as tax-free cash based on the information they held. However, if 
Ms P was able to provide  more information  it was possible she would be entitled to a higher 
tax-free cash sum. Some of this information was about Ms Ps employment history within the 
group of companies.
I remain of the view that we can consider Ms Ps complaint. It arises because there was the 
possibility she was entitled to more than 25% of her pension fund as a tax-free cash  sum.  
Ms P wanted to understand how this was calculated to decide whether to go to the effort  of 
obtaining more  information. Although this was discussed in her telephone call it was possible 
more tax-free cash  would be available. Now we have the information it has been  established  
Ms P is only entitled to 25% of the pension fund as tax-free cash. However, this was not 
known until further  investigation had been made.  
Ref: DRN84742313delays by Aviva  in providing  information and the consequences of those delays
Ms P switched into a deposit fund in October 2016 before she took her pension benefits.  I 
think that was reasonable as it protected her funds against short  term fluctuations in the 
value of her pension fund. However,  when she transferred her pension  funds she invested in 
assets with some exposure  to investment risk. 
I have carefully considered when Ms P would have transferred her funds, if she had been 
given the answers  to her questions about  how the tax-free cash sum would be calculated. It 
is possible this could  have  been  obtained  by January 2017, but I think that is unlikely. Given 
the time it has taken  to obtain information whilst  the complaint has been with this service, I 
think it should have  been possible to have  the information required by April 2017. The 
transfer could  then have been  made  on 1 May 2017.  I cannot be precise with that date, but 
think it is a reasonable  estimate of the date the transfer would have been made, if things had 
run smoothly.
There have been  delays whilst the complaint has been with this service. It has taken a long 
time to resolve. I think this has been a hard fought case. Both parties  to the dispute  have 
made a number of arguments and information has been requested.  I came to a different 
conclusion to my colleagues,  but that is the nature of our service.  The compensation set out 
is intended to put Ms P back  in the position she would have been in, if Aviva had acted fairly.
The benchmark I used  for assessing compensation assumed Ms P wanted to invest  and was 
prepared to accept  some risk. The switch  to a deposit fund was only in the run up to 
retirement. I am satisfied  she was prepared to accept some  risk after transferring her 
pension benefits.
As I think  Ms P would  not have transferred  away from Aviva until 1 May 2017, she would 
have paid charges  until that date. Any charges after that date will be taken into account  in 
the calculation  of compensation as the actual fund value will be used  in the calculation of 
compensation.
Ms P also asked about points she had raised  about a personal  pension plan she started in 
1997 on advice  from General Accident  (now  Aviva). Those points were dealt with in letters 
from our adjudicator of 9 August  and 14 September 2018. He explained that any advice 
about the policy was not part of this complaint. The policy was invested  in a fund with some 
guarantees. This was switched into a deposit  fund when Ms P reached  age 55. 
The information about the personal pension was provided in a letter  dated  2 May 2017. This 
should have been provided  to Ms P sooner. However, Ms P was only ever entitled to a 
maximum of 25% of the policy  value as a tax-free cash  sum. Any guarantees relating to the 
fund were used when the fund was switched into the deposit fund. This has not changed  
since the adjudicators letters on this issue. Although I did not specifically address this in my 
provisional decision, these points do not change my decision.
Ms P argues she should be paid more  than £200 for the distress and inconvenience she has 
been caused by Avivas  errors. I accept her retirement was delayed and this must  have  been  
stressful. However, in addition to the £200  I am awarding, I have taken account of sums 
already paid to Ms P. I think the total is appropriate as compensation in this case.
Ref: DRN84742314Fair compensation
My aim is that Ms P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would  
probably now be in if Aviva had provided clear answers to her questions.  
Both Aviva and Ms P have said they think the compensation  should  be calculated by 
reference to the investments Ms P actually made. I cannot be certain  she would have made  
the same  investments in May 2017 as she actually  made in October 2018. However,  if both 
parties agree then compensation  can be calculated on that basis. This should be agree and 
paid within  a reasonable time after Aviva is notified Ms P has accepted  my decision. If it is 
not agreed with three months  of that time then the loss and compensation should be 
calculated using the method set out below.
If compensation cannot be calculated on an agreed  basis then Im satisfied  that what Ive set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Ms Ps circumstances  and objectives  when she 
invested.
What should Aviva  do?
To compensate Ms P fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance of Ms Ps investment  with that of the benchmark  shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Aviva  should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Aviva should pay an amount into Ms Ps pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance.
If Aviva is unable  to pay the compensation into Ms Ps pension plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Ps expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. Ms P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the reduction 
should equal the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Ms P would have been able to 
take a tax-free  lump  sum,  the reduction  should  be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay Ms P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by not providing a clear  
and concise response to her questions.
Ref: DRN84742315investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
return
All three 
pension 
policies transferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index1 May 2017date 
transferredThe loss 
should be 
revalued in 
line with the 
same index 
from the date 
of transfer  to 
the date of my 
decision
Simple interest should be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross  a year from the date of 
my decision  to the date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Ms P how much  has been taken off. Aviva should  give Ms P a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms P wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms Ps circumstances and risk attitude.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Ref: DRN84742316Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84742317Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Ms Ps complaint  is, in summary,  that she did not have the relevant  information  to know whether  she 
was entitled to more  than 25% tax-free cash or had other guarantees in the three policies she had 
with Aviva. This has caused  her to delay  her retirement and remain in a cash  fund rather  than being  
invested.
background
Ms P started two Executive Pension Plans (EPP) some years ago. Both pensions were then 
administered by Aviva.  They were occupational pension  schemes  and the benefits  available were 
subject to Inland Revenue limits on the maximum  benefits  that could be taken.
Ms P started a personal  pension  with General Accident  (now  Aviva) in August 1997.  This was on 
advice from General Accident.
In February 2013 Aviva sent retirement quotations to Ms P. A complaint  was made about those  
quotations and the amount  of tax-free cash available from Ms Ps pension plans.  Ms P complained 
about the information she had been given.
There is very little evidence about what happened in 2013. However, the final response letter  dated  
12 April 2013 was a reply to a complaint.  The letter apologised for the service  provided to Ms P and 
two incorrect retirement quotations being issued  to her. It confirmed that after reviewing Avivas 
records that the tax-free cash of 25% of the fund value was correct. Ms P wanted to make a complaint 
about the sale of the policy because  she was led to believe that she could receive more than 25% of 
the fund as tax-free  cash.
In September 2016, Ms P instructed her three pension policies held with Aviva to be switched into 
cash prior to taking benefits. The switch was completed in October  2016. 
Ms P asked  whether she needed to involve a financial adviser to take her benefits.  In a phone  call of 
5 December 2016 Aviva  explained that if she moved her pension to a new provider then advice was 
not required. However,  if switching to a new plan with Aviva then advice was required.  Aviva paid her 
£100 for the incorrect information she had previously been given about requiring an adviser.
In the call of 5 December Aviva explained that two of the policies might allow more than 25% tax free 
cash to be taken.  And that her salary  and service  details were required  for Aviva to perform a 
recalculation to check the entitlement.
Ms P returned the retirement pack document on 7 December 2016, with a cover letter  for each of the 
three policies.  In each letter she asked questions about the respective  policy and requested copies of 
the original  policy documentation.
On 3 January 2017 Ms P called Aviva. She had received standard retirement  quotes  but no answers 
to her questions. It was re-confirmed in that call that she needed  to provide her salary  and service 
details for Aviva to recalculate if there was any entitlement for higher  levels of tax-free cash.
Further information was sent to Ms P on 11 January 2017, about two of the policies; however,  it was 
not the answers to the questions  she had raised.
Aviva called Ms P on 13 January 2017, to follow  up the previous phone  call. She explained her 
reasons for asking the questions  about  the policies and discussed the method of calculating whether 
she was entitled to more  than 25% tax free cash. 
Ref: DRN84742318The call was followed up with a letter from Aviva also dated 13 January 2017, in which  it apologised 
for the service  it had provided. It said further  information regarding the third policy would follow. It also 
contained more information  about the calculation for tax free cash entitlement. Aviva offered to 
perform a loss assessment  on receipt of Ms Ps instruction to transfer her pensions  within the next 28 
days. £100  was also offered  as an apology.
Ms P contacted Aviva in early February 2017, and it was identified she had not received the letter of 
13 January 2017. A further copy  was sent which  she received on 10 February 2017.  
After further  phone calls about the information in the letter of 13 January  2017, and a lack of response 
about the third policy, Aviva  offered Ms P £300 for the upset and inconvenience caused.  
On 3 April 2017, Aviva wrote  to Ms P confirming that the third policy offered a maximum of 25% tax 
free cash. It also confirmed the policy had no safeguarded benefits and that it did not hold a copy of 
the original  terms and conditions.
Ms P wrote to Aviva on 12 April 2017. In that letter she asked a number  of questions about her 
pension policies. This included details  of the documentation  and specifically asking whether she was 
entitled to more than 25% of the fund as a tax-free lump sum.
Following further communication between Aviva and Ms P, Aviva provided information about  the fund 
the third pension  policy  had been invested in. It explained  that when  Ms P reached her selected 
retirement age of 55, the deferment of her retirement caused the fund to be switched into the deposit  
fund by default. Aviva  also confirmed there were no guarantees applying to the policy.
Ms P referred her complaint  to this service. It has been investigated by a number of different 
adjudicators. After a number  of letters and phone calls one of our adjudicators recommended it should  
be upheld. He said:
Ms P made a complaint in 2013 about  the calculation of the tax-free cash  from her policies. 
He thought any complaint  about that calculation  was time barred  and we could not consider 
that part of the complaint. 
Two of the pensions were occupational schemes and therefore  it was possible  they offered 
more than 25% tax-free cash entitlement. And it was reasonable for Ms P to enquire about  
additional benefits or guarantees before taking her benefits and that she needed to be 
confident in the reliability of the answers  she was given.
The issue  about  how much tax-free cash could be taken  from one of the policies had been the 
subject of a previous  complaint. But he thought  this complaint was about  the service Aviva 
had provided in answering questions  and providing policy  documentation.
The answers  about  the first two pension plans  were provided in the phone call on 13 January  
2017 and the letter of the same day. Whilst he accepted that letter was not received until 
February 2017, he considered it was reasonable  that Ms P could  have instructed the transfer 
of those two pensions  by mid-February  2017.
The information about the third policy  was not provided until later. He considered Ms P was in 
a position to instruct the transfer of the third pension  by 19 May 2017.
Aviva paid Ms P £300 as an apology  for the upset and inconvenience it had caused by the 
level of service it had provided. Therefore, recognising it didnt handle her information  
requests as well as it should have. It also offered  to conduct a loss assessment to see if 
delays in responding to the information requests  had caused her a loss. However, Aviva had 
not been  able to do so as Ms P had not transferred her pensions.
The adjudicator explained how any loss should be calculated. This took account  of the dates 
when he felt Ms P was in a position  to have instructed  the transfer of her pensions. He also 
said it was not appropriate to revalue  any loss to date as Ms P still hadnt transferred her 
pensions and had remained in cash funds with Aviva.
Aviva and Ms P both disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations and so the case  has been 
referred to me for a decision.  Ms Ps husband  provided  a response on her behalf. I do not intend to 
Ref: DRN84742319deal with any of those points  at this stage.  That is because  I think the complaint about the calculation 
of the tax-free cash is one that we can deal with.
Our adjudicators explained that Ms P made a complaint in 2013 about the calculation of the tax-free 
cash from her policies.  They  thought any complaint about that calculation  was time barred and we 
couldnt consider that part of the complaint. Having  reviewed the correspondence, I do not agree.
I wrote  to Aviva. I explained that, in my view, the letter was in response to a complaint about the 
information provided  in the retirement quotations. Although this related to the tax-free cash  available, I 
think it is a different issue from the one being  raised  now. The response to the complaint in 2013 
confirmed that the tax-free cash was limited to 25%. However, the correspondence and telephone 
conversations in 2016/17 contradict the outcome of the complaint. In particular, the telephone call of 
13 January 2017 explained the formula for calculating the tax-free cash from an occupational pension  
scheme. This also explained  that Aviva made a calculation in 2006 using  data that was available.  If 
Ms P had evidence  to show her salary was higher, then the tax-free cash could be greater than 25%.
Aviva replied and said they did not agree. They provided  another  copy  of the telephone note of Ms Ps 
complaint in 2013. Aviva issued the final response confirming that she had six months to refer her 
complaint to this Service. As the complaint was not referred to this Service within  six months of that 
letter it should  not be considered. The decision was made by this Service that the complaint was out 
of time.
I issued my decision that we can investigate Ms Ps current complaint. I was satisfied that this was a 
different complaint to the one made in 2013.
Since then we have received information from Ms P. Aviva explained that the information showed that 
Ms P was not entitled to more  than 25% of her pension  fund as a tax-free cash sum.
Ms P has told us that as a consequence of the delay she has felt unable  to transfer her pension funds 
until October 2018.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms P contacted Aviva in the autumn of 2016  as she intended to take her pension benefits. She 
switched into safer funds to avoid  investment volatility  before she took her benefits. There  then 
followed some correspondence  and telephone calls with Aviva.
I think  it was appropriate for Ms P to switch to safer funds. And it seems to me that asking about  the 
benefits available  from her policy  was a sensible step to take. In particular, this included the possibility 
that she was entitled to more than 25% of the pension fund as tax-free cash.
Aviva did not respond  to the questions Ms P asked about the tax-free cash. Although the principles 
were discussed with Ms P in the phone call of 13 January 2017, she wanted to know more  details. It 
was possible that the tax-free  cash would be increased  if Ms P could  provide details about her salary 
and service with the employer. So, I think it was reasonable for her to wait until she received answers 
to her questions before transferring her benefits.
Ms P has now provided us with details of her employment. This has been passed on to Aviva who 
confirmed that no extra tax-free cash was available. In my view, this should have been  provided 
shortly after Ms Ps telephone conversation with Aviva  in January 2013. Given that she would need to 
make enquiries  and provide details of her employment it would have taken some weeks to provide the 
answer. 
Ref: DRN847423110It has actually taken  some time for the information to be supplied. I accept that there have been some 
delays, but I think Ms P would not have proceeded until she was confident that the answer was 
correct. In my view, a reasonable estimate of the time at which she could have been informed that no 
extra tax-free  cash was available should be the beginning  of April 2017. The transfer could then have 
been made by 1 May 2017.
The possibility of any additional tax-free cash sums only applied to one of Ms Ps policies. She could 
have taken benefits from the other two policies earlier. However, I think  it was reasonable for her to 
wait to establish the position  with the third policy before deciding how to take all of her pension  
benefits. So, I think she would have taken  benefits  from all three policies at the same  time.
In conclusion, I think  Avivas  responses  to Ms P did not fully explain how the tax-free cash  would  be 
calculated. If they had provided that information sooner,  Ms P would have  understood there was no 
extra tax-free  cash available and transferred her pension benefits.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Ms P should be put as closely as possible into the position she would probably  now be 
in if Aviva had provided clear answers  to her questions.  I think Ms P would have invested differently. 
Its not possible  to say precisely  what she would have done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable  given Ms Ps circumstances  and objectives  when she invested.
What should Aviva  do?
To compensate Ms P fairly, Aviva must:
Compare the performance  of Ms Ps investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Aviva should add interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Aviva should pay an amount  into Ms Ps pension plan to increase its value 
by the amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow for the 
effect of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Aviva is unable to pay the compensation into Ms Ps pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to her. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would  have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid. 
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Ms Ps expected marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. Ms P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the reduction should  equal  
the current  basic rate of tax. However, if Ms P would  have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
Pay Ms P £200 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by not providing a clear and 
concise response to her questions.
Ref: DRN847423111investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
return
All three  
pension 
policies  transferredFTSE UK Private 
Investors  Income 
Total Return 
Index1 May 2017date 
transferredThe loss 
should be 
revalued  in line 
with the same 
index from the 
date of transfer 
to the date of 
my decision
Simple interest should be added to my award  at a rate of 8% gross a year from the date of my 
decision to the date of settlement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Aviva  deducts  income tax from the interest,  it 
should tell Ms P how much  has been taken off. Aviva  should  give Ms P a tax deduction  certificate if 
she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ms P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Ms Ps 
circumstances and risk attitude. 
My provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. My provisional decision is that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited should pay 
the amount calculated as set out above. 
Ref: DRN8474231