K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  about information  about  him provided to credit  reference agencies by 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
background
Mr L has a mortgage  provided by Bank  of Scotland.  
He recently found  out that theyd  provided information to credit reference agencies  to say he 
was two months in arrears. This has affected his credit rating  and meant hes been unable to 
arrange other credit.
Mr L says he hasnt  missed any payments. He complained to Bank of Scotland and asked 
them to remove the information from his credit  files.
Bank of Scotland didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They  said the credit reference information  
theyd provided  was accurate. And they pointed out they are obliged  to provide it.
They said Mr Ls mortgage  had been  part-paid by the Department of Work and Pensions 
(DWP) for a period of time. Mr L had been paying the remaining amount. 
From June 2018, the DWP had ceased  payments. Mr L had continued  to pay the same 
amount. And so arrears had been  accruing since that time. They said these arrears totalled  
more than two months payments.
Bank of Scotland pointed out that Mr L can add a factual statement to his credit reference 
files, to explain the circumstances, but they said they couldnt remove  or amend the 
information theyd  provided.
Mr L wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator  
looked into it and thought  Bank of Scotland had done nothing wrong.
Mr L disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  arent in dispute in this case.  The DWP  made part-payments  towards Mr Ls 
mortgage until June  2018. After June  2018,  Mr L didnt increase the amount he was paying 
to make up the shortfall until February 2019. By that time, the arrears were  equivalent  to 
more than two months payments.
Theres no suggestion Bank of Scotland didnt  keep Mr L informed about this position. And 
theyve made him aware of what he can do to add a statement to his credit  file.
Were not aware  why the DWP ceased payments. And thats  not for us to look into.
Ref: DRN88184412Its true Mr L hasnt missed a payment, as he says. Hes paid an amount every month. 
However, hes also been aware  that since the DWP ceased part-payments,  the amount hes 
paid has not been enough to cover his mortgage.  
Im satisfied Bank of Scotland have provided  accurate  information  to the credit reference 
agencies, in line with their obligations. In doing  so, they havent acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards  Mr L.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8818441