K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited mis-sold  him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
When this policy was sold,  Canada  Square Operations Limited was trading as Egg. So to 
keep things simple, Ill refer to Egg in this decision.  
background
In 2002, Mr L applied for a credit card online  and at the same  time was sold PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ls complaint  should  be upheld. Mr L didnt agree with the 
adjudicators decision,  so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  Having  done so, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint for reasons  that Ill now explain.
This was an internet sale, where Mr L would have  been able to complete the application in 
his own time and at his own pace. Egg has provided  some screen shots  taken from its 
standard online application  process in use at the time. And it has provided  copies  of the 
electronic records it has retained  which are specific to Mr Ls application. This service has 
also seen details of many other Egg credit  card applications from around this time.  
So from all this information,  I think I can be reasonably  certain about what Mr L would have 
seen on his screen when he made his application. This would have included a screen  about 
PPI where, in order for him to progress further  with his application, he would have had to 
select one of two equally prominent options:
Yes, I want  to protect my repayments, or
No, I understand  it is my responsibility to keep up my repayments should I fall ill or lose 
my job
Eggs electronic records indicate that Mr L selected  to take the PPI cover offered.
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr L said that he now has a memory of having to call 
Egg during the application process. He said that he has a recollection of the PPI selection 
being pre-ticked.  And he said that he thinks he made the call to Egg customer services  when 
it became apparent to him that he couldnt  untick the PPI selection  and continue  with his 
application. 
Ive no doubt that this is Mr Ls honest  recollection  of what  happened to him at the time. But I 
have to bear in mind  that this all took place a long time ago and memories do tend to fade 
with time. And Mr Ls memory of this sale, more generally, doesnt  seem to be that clear  or 
detailed. So I dont  think it would  be fair for me to rely solely  on what  Mr L now thinks he 
remembers, when I have  other, what I consider more persuasive, evidence  than Mr L would 
Ref: DRN82102022have been presented with a free choice as to whether he took PPI or not. And even if he had 
called Egg in the way he now thinks he did, I think the person he spoke to would have been 
able to help him deselect the PPI if, because of some technical glitch, it had been  
erroneously pre-selected and he hadnt  wanted to take it. 
Egg has also provided copies of some of the monthly credit  card statements which Mr L 
would have received. And I can see that the PPI charged to his account  is shown quite  
clearly on these statements on a separate line next to the heading Credit Card  Repayment 
Protector. And I think Mr L is likely  to have queried  with Egg why he was being charged for 
this if, as he has said, the PPI was added without his knowledge.
So having  carefully considered all the information  available to me, I think its most likely that 
Mr L actively chose to take the PPI, knowing that he had a choice. But I can understand why 
he may not be able to recall this now.
As this was not an advised sale, Egg didnt need to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable 
for Mr L. But it still needed to give enough information for Mr L to decide, himself,  if he 
wanted to take it. The screen  shots  which Egg has provided show  that a reasonable detailed 
summary of the key aspects of the policy would have been available  to Mr L when he was 
completing his application.  Nevertheless,  I think the information Egg provided could have 
been better than it was. For example,  it could  have made it clearer that the PPI premiums 
would be added to his account balance  and, therefore, might  attract  interest. But I dont think  
that better  information  would have changed  Mr Ls mind about taking the policy.  I say this 
because:
Mr L appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Mr L says that he didnt need the PPI cover  because  he was eligible  for generous  sick 
pay and redundancy compensation from his employer.  But this policy  would have paid 
out in addition to his other means  and, potentially, for longer than these might have 
lasted. And he chose to take out the cover so it seems  like he wanted this type of 
protection. So I still think that he would have found this extra cover useful if things had 
gone wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr L. And as the premiums were 
charged monthly, he could have  cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that Mr L has lost out by anything  that Egg may have 
done wrong when it sold this PPI to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Canada Square  Operations Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Simon Furse
Ref: DRN8210202