K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Allianz Insurance Plc turned down  his claim under his pet insurance 
policy. 
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, when I said I intended  
to uphold this complaint.  My provisional  decision forms  part of this final decision and 
I include an extract here:
Mr R had an annual  pet insurance policy  with Allianz. In 2017 he made a claim because his 
dog had been diagnosed  with congestive heart failure, due to an enlarged heart  
(cardiomegaly). 
Allianz said the clinical signs for congestive heart  failure started on 8 April 2016, when the 
vet picked up a heart  murmur. On 15 April 2016 an x-ray  showed cardiomegaly, which is a 
serious disease. 
Allianz said that under its policy it wouldnt pay a claim for treatment the dog had received 
more than 12 months after the date the illness first showed clinical signs. The first clinical  
signs were on 8 April 2016, with the heart murmur. So it would consider a claim for treatment 
only up until 7 April 2017 (12 months  later).  The treatment costs  up until this date fell under 
the policy excess of £80. So Allianz  didnt  pay anything for the claim. It also retrospectively 
put an exclusion on the policy for heart  disorders with effect from 8 April 2017.
Mr R was very unhappy with Allianzs decision.  He sent it a letter  from his vet supporting the 
claim, but Allianz  didnt change its mind. Mr R told Allianz he had cancelled his policy and he 
came to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Allianz had dealt with the claim 
fairly under its policy terms. Mr R didnt agree and said that the congestive  heart  failure was 
diagnosed only in April 2017, as confirmed  by his vets email to Allianz.  So the complaints  
come to me for review.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
The policy terms arent in dispute here. They say Allianz will not pay a claim for treatment 
the dog received more than 12 months after the date the illness first showed  clinical  signs. 
Mr Rs vet has given a statement to Allianz as follows:
The heart murmur was detected  on 8 April 2016,  and it was specifically noted in the 
clinical notes that the dog showed no signs of cardiac failure. Radiographs taken on 
15 April 2016 confirmed there was no lung oedema (fluid  on the lung). Therefore, 
heart failure was not present. 
Ref: DRN81756302The dog was examined on 8 September 2016  and 14 October 2016 for dietary 
related matters, and again no clinical signs of heart failure were detected. 
It was not until 3 April 2017 when the dog presented for coughing  that congestive  
heart failure was diagnosed. This was confirmed with further radiographs  and a 
clinical response to heart medication. So 3 April 2017 is the correct date for the 
diagnosis of congestive heart  failure.  
So its clear from the vets statement that the claim was for treatment of the dogs congestive 
heart failure,  which he said didnt show clinical signs until 3 April 2017.  
Allianz says that the heart murmur  was a clinical sign of a heart  abnormality.  A murmur can 
be innocent. But this wasnt  the case for Mr Rs dog, given the x-ray revealed cardiomegaly 
 an enlarged heart  on 15 April 2016. It says this is a very serious disease. So the murmur 
and cardiomegaly  were  clearly clinical signs confirming heart disease. Its only when the 
hear stops coping and starts  to fail that clinical  signs of heart  failure show. But the heart 
disease that later caused the heart failure  started  from April 2016.
I think Allianz is correct that under the strict policy terms  the first clinical signs  of heart 
disease were in April 2016, even if the dog didnt have any clinical signs  of heart  failure at 
the time.  But I can step outside the strict policy terms where I think its fair and reasonable to 
do so. 
In the specific circumstances here I dont think its fair for Allianz to apply the strict  policy 
terms. This is because it was only in April 2017  that the vet diagnosed heart failure, and it 
was the heart failure which required treatment. Before this the vet had explained to Mr R that 
the dog wouldnt  need treatment unless  she started to show signs  of heart  failure  such  as 
difficulty breathing. And the vet has clearly explained that that it wasnt  until April 2017 that 
the dog presented for coughing, and heart  failure  was then diagnosed. The vet explained the 
dog had been monitored during 2016  appointments for diet related issues, and no clinical  
signs of heart failure were  detected. 
I find the treating  vets evidence persuasive,  as the vet has seen and treated the dog. I also 
dont think its fair to use the dates the heart murmur/cardiomegaly was detected as the 
dates from which the 12 months should  run. If we apply those dates then this effectively 
means that Mr R has lost out on all the cover provided by the policy.  Hes not had the benefit 
of the cover  hes paid premiums for. 
So in line with the treating  vets evidence, I think a fair outcome  is that Allianz should start 
the 12 months from 3 April 2017,  the date that the vet recommended  treatment for heart 
failure. This means that Allianz cant apply the policy exclusion until 12 months  from 3 April 
2017 (although  I understand Mr R cancelled his policy in June 2017 anyway). 
So I intend to require Allianz to pay Mr Rs claim, less the policy  excess  and the 20% 
contribution that he is required to make under the policy terms. It should add simple 8% 
interest to that payment  from the date of claim, as set out below.
I said I intended to require Allianz  to pay the claim, less the policy excess  and his 20% 
contribution, plus 8% interest on the remaining claim payment. 
responses to my provisional  decision  
Allianz responded to say it didnt have  anything further to add.
Ref: DRN81756303Mr R responded to add that hed reluctantly cancelled the policy  in June 2017, having taken 
it out in September 2007 due to Allianzs decision not to pay the claim. Hed made the last 
payment on 8 June  2017 to cover the period from 8 June 2017 to 7 July 2017. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Rs decision  to cancel the policy was made reluctantly, and Ive noted the 
policy dates.
Ive not been given  any additional substantive evidence  to consider, and I uphold the 
complaint for the reasons set out in full in my provisional decision.  Allianz  must  pay Mr Rs 
claim as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr R accepts my final decision  I require Allianz Insurance  Plc to pay Mr Rs claim, 
subject to the policy excess and the 20% contribution that he is required to make under the 
policys terms. Allianz must add interest*  to the resulting  payment at the simple annual rate 
of 8% from the date of claim  until the date it pays Mr R. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Allianz Insurance  Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr R a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8175630