K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Hargreaves  Lansdown Advisory  Services Limited (Hargreaves) did 
not execute his instruction to invest cash transferred in his Individual Savings Account (ISA).
background
The relevant  events occurred in the process of and subsequent to Mr Ms transfer of his ISA 
from a previous provider  to Hargreaves  around May 2017. 
There appears to have been  a secondary issue within the complaint, concerning  discretion 
over reinvestment of dividends arising from stock after the transfer.  However, it also appears 
that the relevant terms of the account had the effect of nullifying discretion in the matter, 
because dividends had to be reinvested in the same type of fund as they arose from. 
Correspondence suggests that Mr M might have accepted this. In the event that he has not it 
will be addressed in the findings  below.
The main  issue is as summarised in the complaint section  above. Mr M says that in the 
process of transferring the ISA he completed a form, related to the transfer form, that gave 
his express instruction for the investment of around  £5,950.40, cash transferred in the 
ISA(the cash), into Royal Dutch Shell  B shares (the shares).  Hargreaves has not 
conceded this. It says it cannot  locate this particular form and that the transfer form it has 
identified has no such instruction.
Mr M says he learnt his instruction had not been  executed when Hargreaves informed him, 
around August  2017, that the cash remained unused in his ISA. He has referred, with 
evidence, to written communication he thereafter  sent to Hargreaves on  9 October 2017 (a 
secure message  and a posted  signed  letter instructing the investment which matched 
Hargreaves requirement for written and signed instructions), 16 October 2017 (a letter 
referring to the previous correspondence and complaining about Hargreaves inaction), 6 
November 2017  (a letter  chasing a response to the previous correspondence and noting that 
the investment  had yet to be made), 11 November 2017 (a letter rebutting  Hargreaves 
response to the complaint, declining its offer of £15, noting that the investment was still yet 
to be made  and giving notice  of Hargreaves responsibility for any loss arising from the 
matter and of his intention to complain  to this service).
In the main,  Hargreaves says it did not receive the letter of 9 October and that the online 
secure message  of the same  date fell short of a valid instruction because  it was unsigned. It 
does not consider that it has done anything wrong  by not executing  the investment that Mr M 
instructed. Quite  recently, and after the adjudicator  issued her final view on the case, Mr M 
confirmed that Hargreaves eventually executed the investment in the shares  on 12 
November 2018   over a year after his instruction letter of 9 October 2017.
The adjudicators final view was that the complaint  about the shares  should  be upheld.  She 
was not persuaded that Hargreaves did not receive Mr Ms instruction of 9 October and she 
considered that the instruction was written and signed as Hargreaves had requested. She 
proposed that Hargreaves  should  pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset the matter  had 
caused him and that it should  put him back to the position he would have  been  in had the 
investment in the shares taken place  upon receipt  of his instruction on 9 October. Mr M 
accepted this outcome, Hargreaves did not and the matter was referred  to an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN88859152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Reinvestment of dividends arising  from stock after the transfer of Mr Ms ISA
Evidence shows that his transfer form included his selection of the Reinvest  Income 
Automatically option. As the adjudicator pointed out the terms of the ISA account, with 
Hargreaves, defined  this automatic reinvestment  option as one in which dividends were  
restricted to reinvestment  in  the same type of fund or share  that paid the income . 
Reference has been made to the previous providers version of this service,  in which  there 
appears to have been discretion over the reinvestment of dividends. 
I agree  with the adjudicators view that this issue should be determined  on the terms agreed 
with Hargreaves  as summarised above  and not the previous providers practice. If this 
matter remains in dispute, I conclude that Hargreaves  was not obliged to reinvest  dividends  
arising from stock after the transfer in any way other than the manner in which  the agreed 
terms defined the Reinvest Income  Automatically  option.
Investment of Cash transferred in Mr Ms ISA
I consider, on balance, that Mr M sent the signed and posted instruction letter of 9 October 
2017 as he said he did. The copy  of the letter that has been shared with this service is 
addressed correctly and I am not persuaded by Hargreaves assertion that it was not 
received or that it did not invest the cash in the shares because Mr M did not provide the 
requisite or proper  instruction to do so. 
With regards to the letter, I consider that there is arguably a difference between Hargreaves  
inability to locate  it in response to the complaint and its assertion that the letter was not 
received at the relevant  time (in October  2017). It is plausible that the former, not the latter,  
is the case and that inability  to locate the letter does  not mean it was not received. With 
regards to the instruction, I note that Mr Ms follow-up letter of 16 October 2017 was written 
and signed, it was received (with  a date stamp) on 17 October 2017. This letter  presented 
his complaint but it also included these contents    regarding  the reinvestment of 
£5,950.40 cash  funds in my ISA account  ,  I had given clear instructions that all 
dividends were to be reinvested in Shell  B shares  , When  I enquired  why these,  
apparently dormant, funds  had not been  reinvested  for several  months I was told that I had 
not given instructions  and  I expect my original instructions to be honoured without 
any further delay .
The letter of 16 October met Hargreaves requirements, it repeated the instruction  and it 
identified the subject of reinvestment   that is, the dormant funds which had been transferred 
in the ISA. Despite  this, the instruction was still not carried out. I consider that the same  
inactive approach was more  likely  (than not) applied to the earlier instruction letter  of 9 
October.
Having disputed receipt of the letter of 9 October and having insisted that the type of 
instruction which  had to be given for the investment  had not been given, it appears that on 
12 November 2018 Hargreaves  eventually invested  the cash in the shares  as instructed by 
Mr M in the letter of 9 October. Available evidence suggests that Mr M did not re-submit the 
Ref: DRN88859153instruction, so the conclusion to be drawn is that Hargreaves executed the investment on the 
basis of the 9 October instruction. 
It is not clear  if this indicates  a change in Hargreaves position on the complaint  but I am 
persuaded that it adds further  support to the conclusion that the requisite instruction  letter  
was sent on 9 October 2017 (and arguably repeated in the follow-up  letter of 16 October) 
and was received  by Hargreaves but not acted upon. With the exception  of the transfer  form 
related instruction around May 2017, evidence  of which has not been  seen, this conclusion 
captures the essence of Mr Ms complaint  which is upheld.
what must  Hargreaves  do?
As the adjudicator noted, the aim of redress is to put Mr M back  into the position he would 
have been in if Hargreaves had executed his instruction of 9 October upon receipt of it. It 
received the letter of 16 October on the next weekday of 17 October, so I consider that it 
would have received the letter of 9 October  on the next weekday of 10 October  2017.  The 
investment of the cash into the shares  should have taken place on this date. Investment in 
shares is generally a time sensitive matter so I do not consider that the investment could 
reasonably have been delayed beyond this date. As stated earlier  the shares  are the Royal  
Dutch Shell B shares and the cash is the £5,950.40 transferred in Mr Ms ISA. 
Hargreaves must do the following:
Pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset he has been caused  by this matter.  I 
endorse the adjudicators finding and proposal in this respect.
Hargreaves invested the cash in the shares  on 12 November 2018.  It should 
compare the purchase  price  for the shares on this date (actual price) with the 
average purchase price that would have applied  to the shares on 10 October  2017  
(fair price). If the actual price is less than the fair price no compensation is due to 
Mr M, as that means the investment has turned out to be cheaper than it would have 
been if it took place on 10 October  2017  that is, the cash  has bought  more  shares  
than it would have  bought  on 10 October 2017.  If the actual price is greater than the 
fair price  Hargreaves has lost Mr M the opportunity to invest  at a cheaper price and 
to have more  shares for his cash.  In this case, Hargreaves must calculate  the 
difference between  the shares  that the cash would have bought at the fair price and 
the shares that the cash bought at the actual price   it must then purchase, at its 
cost, and remit to Mr M (in his ownership) the difference (the redress  shares). 
Mr Ms complaint also referred to potential lost dividends from the shares arising  from 
the delay in executing his instruction. He told Hargreaves about this around  the time 
of his complaint  in 2017. If he can present evidence to Hargreaves to show that he 
has lost the benefit  of dividends between 10 October 2017  when  the investment 
should have taken place and 12 November  2018  when  it eventually  took place  (with  
allowance for settlement  time),  Hargreaves must  calculate the value of such  lost 
dividends  based on the size of the shares   and must  compensate Mr M in the 
amount of that value in addition to the redress shares.
Interest on the value of all compensation, except the £100 payment for trouble and 
upset, is due at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of this decision to the 
date of settlement  if settlement does not take place within  28 days of Hargreaves 
being notified of Mr Ms acceptance of this decision. Income tax may be payable on 
any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN88859154my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and I order Hargreaves Lansdown 
Advisory Services Limited to pay him compensation as detailed  above and to provide him 
with the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8885915