K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC (trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester) mis-sold his 
late wife, Mrs S, and him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the 
business as Lloyds in my decision.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. It seems 
that they applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to cover the mortgage repayments  and also offered to 
pay an additional cash benefit, based on £3 for each £1,000 of the initial  mortgage. At the 
time, it cost £20.85  a month. 
Mr S has told us he was employed  as a branch manager at the time.  Hes also told us he 
was entitled to at least  three months  full sick pay and redundancy pay. Mr S has told us 
about a childhood illness and an injury  he suffered   many years before the sale. Mrs S was a 
self-employed childminder. 
Although this PPI policy only covered Mr S, Ive also kept Mrs Ss circumstances in mind 
when coming to my decision.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr Ss representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ss representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ss 
representative believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN86083702The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have been sent the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr Ss representative didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published  some  example  final decisions that set out in detail how these  
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN86083703Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ss case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint.      
I note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Ref: DRN86083704Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs S suffered loss or damage and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr S and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
I havent seen  all of the paperwork from the sale, but I have seen a copy  of a separate  PPI 
application form thats been signed by Mr and Mrs S on 29 October  1997.  This form, in my 
opinion, presented the PPI as separate to their mortgage and Mr and Mrs S have signed it to 
agree to take out PPI. A separate direct  debit form has also been completed  for the PPI and 
signed by Mr S.
Taking everything into account,  on balance I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs S 
knew the policy was optional, separate to their mortgage and they agreed to take it out 
without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Although Mr S says that no recommendation was made to take PPI, the paperwork Ive seen 
suggests that Lloyds did make  a recommendation to take PPI.
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs S with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. It seems Mr S cant remember clearly what  happened  
and there  is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy.  
This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser likely had some 
limited information about  Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances from their mortgage  
application. But there is no evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether    
Mr S would have been caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations which might have 
meant the policy did not fully meet their needs.  
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances.   
So Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable  care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN86083705-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that their ability to continue 
to meet  their mortgage repayments would  have been put under strain if Mr S was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits Mr S 
says he would have  been entitled to and the redundancy benefit he thinks he would 
have been entitled  to.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ss employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. The conditions that have been 
mentioned happened  many  years before the sale and were unlikely to cause Mr S to 
take any time off work. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems.
-Although Mr and Mrs S say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr S be disabled  or unemployed for     
60 days before they could  make a claim and would only pay benefits for a maximum 
of 12 months, it still provided valuable  cover given:  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, 
their existing  means of making their mortgage  repayments, the fact the policy  
protected the mortgage repayments  relating  to their home and the potential 
consequences should Mr and Mrs S be unable to make  the repayments  on loans 
secured against  their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr S was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN86083706Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ss representative have raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ss. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ss representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say 
 I think its unlikely a court  would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr S has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did        
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to                           
Mr and Mrs S. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs S suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr S says they wouldnt have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN86083707return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment, they concluded  they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs S would 
have been told the cost before the policy started. I say this because Mr S signed a direct 
debit form to authorise payment for the PPI from their bank account and Ive also seen a 
copy of a policy schedule  that was sent with a letter dated 19 December 1997. The policy  
schedule outlines  the level of cover  and the cost per month. Mr and Mrs S also paid for the 
policy for a number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  
at the point of sale, its possible they might have raised that with Lloyds at the time, or 
reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in the event of a claim 
than they may have  expected as there  was an additional cash  payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any condition, injury, illness,  disease or 
sickness which Mr S knew  about  or should reasonably have known  about  at the start 
date or which  Mr S had seen or arranged to see a doctor, during the 12 months 
immediately before the start date of the policy. The policy  states that this exclusion 
applied for the first 24 months after the PPI start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr S be unable  to 
do the duties of his normal  employment,  including any similar  gainful  occupation  
which, in the insurers view, his experience, education or training  reasonably  qualified  
him to do or he may become reasonably qualified to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN86083708I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr S was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. 
Although Mr S has told us about some sickness he had before the sale of the PPI, the 
conditions he has told us about seem to have  affected him many years before the PPI was 
sold. I think its unlikely Mr S would have expected to be off work  and need  to claim during 
the first 24 months after taking out the PPI because of the conditions hes told us about.  
I dont think that even if Mr S had been given better information about this exclusion that hed 
have changed  his mind  for the reasons  Ive explained and I still think  Mr and Mrs S had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr S was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr S was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a  
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
but they seem to have had limited other means  to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr S be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. It could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain time, 
ensuring their home was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr S was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not   
Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Ref: DRN86083709Mr Ss representative says the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs S found  themselves  in as result  of the sale was the same position  they would have been 
in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr S believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would not have  
taken out the policy.  I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr S in the position he would have been in if they had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,     
I am satisfied that of the two possibilities,  its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Lloyds should  pay Mr S compensation, as that would put them in a better position than they 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Im also aware that Mr S thinks Lloyds misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloyds statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ss representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
Ref: DRN860837010good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  
For the reasons  Ive already set out I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr S 
in a better position  than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8608370