K820x#14complaint
Ms A says The Co-operative Bank Plc (trading as Britannia) mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Ms A took out a PPI policy  in 1997  to protect  her mortgage repayments and other related 
household expenses. It protected her against unemployment. She paid a monthly  amount for 
the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms A disagreed saying  the policy was sold to 
her to cover a set amount  of monthly outgoings,  she was never  told she had to hold a 
mortgage to be able to claim. So the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms As complaint. Ill explain why.
Britannia had to make it clear to Ms A that the PPI was optional and she had to agree to take 
it out. Ms A applied  for PPI when her mortgage was already in place so she wouldve known 
it was a separate product  and wasnt mandatory. She completed an application form for the 
PPI, selecting the level and type of cover  she wanted. So overall,  I think Britannia made it 
clear the PPI was optional   and she agreed to take it out. 
Ms A says Britannia  recommended the policy to her, but Britannia disagrees.  I havent found 
any evidence that it reviewed her individual circumstances  before providing advice to her, or 
made a personal  recommendation  to have it. Based on that, and what  we know about how 
Britannia sold PPI at the time, I think its most likely  it didnt make a recommendation. This 
means it didnt have to check  the policy was right for her. However, even if it had 
recommended the cover  based on Ms As circumstances  at the time it seems it wasnt  
unsuitable. 
Britannia had to give Ms A enough information so she could make an informed decision 
about whether  she wanted to buy it. Its possible the information Britannia gave Ms A about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I dont think  she wouldve been put off 
taking out the policy  if shed received better information. I say this because:
Ms A was eligible for the policy given her circumstances  at the time and the policys 
terms and conditions.
Ms A wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys main  benefits. As she 
couldve benefitted  from the full extent of the cover, I think  it unlikely she needed better 
information about  the policys exclusions and limitations.
Ref: DRN80602702Ms A was entitled to less than three months sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to her work  benefits and for much longer - up to 12 months for all successful 
accident, sickness and unemployment claims. She had savings worth less than three  
months salary.  The PPI wouldve allowed her to use her savings  to cover other living  
expenses whilst  not working,  or to keep them intact for her future needs. Ms A had 
borrowed quite a large  amount of money  over a number  of years, secured on her home.  
The impact of missing  repayments  would have  been  significant for her. So I think  the 
PPI wouldve been  useful  for Ms A if she lost her job. And it seems that she did in fact 
make a successful  claim on the policy.
-I dont know when  during the sale Britannia first made clear  the cost of the policy. But the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. 
Ms A says she was mis-sold the policy as it was never made clear to her that having a 
mortgage was a condition of the cover. And she only found out when she tried to make a 
claim but it was rejected  as shed redeemed her mortgage. I cant know  what was said at the 
time of the sale, but the PPI application  form said all applicants  must also be named on the 
mortgage account. And I think  the way the policy was presented in the paperwork 
throughout as a mortgage payment protection policy strongly indicates that the cover  is 
linked to a mortgage. Indeed Ms A herself refers to it as Mortgage  Protection in later 
correspondence with Britannia.  
The policy document also makes clear  that to be eligible  for the cover  you must have a 
mortgage. It says cover  is offered on the condition that you are the owner occupier of the 
property secured under the Agreement with Agreement defined as a mortgage Agreement  
with Britannia  Building Society  or subsequently any other lender notified by you secured by a 
first charge  over your principal residential  property within the United Kingdom. It also states 
It is important that you notify Britannia Building  Society when you are no longer eligible to 
receive benefit under this policy as a refund  of premiums paid cannot  be guaranteed. And I 
have seen no evidence  that Ms A did this. She had moved her mortgage to a different lender 
so Britannia wouldnt  have been aware  of the status  of her mortgage account.  But regardless 
of this, it was her responsibility  to manage  the policy as she required.  She could have 
cancelled it at any time with no further cost.
So overall, I dont  think Ms A has lost out because of any problems  with the sale.
Ref: DRN80602703my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060270