K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about short-term loans granted to him by CashEuroNet UK LLC 
trading as QuickQuid. Mr D says he couldnt afford  these loans and that QuickQuid didnt 
take appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
background
QuickQuid initially agreed a flexible credit agreement  (flex credit) for Mr D in September 2013. 
This was a credit facility  that allowed him to draw down money up to a pre-agreed credit 
limit, with a view to repaying  it  potentially over a period of up to 10 months.  
The flex credit account ran for around 18 months  before it was closed. And QuickQuid then 
approved two short-term loans for Mr D, which were due to be repaid over three and two 
months respectively.  Ive set out a summary of lending  below.  
flex credit
flex credit no. applicationcredit limit 
(£)max repayment 
term per draw 
downhighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 03/09/2013 400 10 months 104
credit limit increase 1 05/05/2014 550 10 months not provided
credit limit increase 2 03/07/2014 600 10 months not provided
credit limit increase 3 09/11/2014 650 10 months not provided
payday loans
loan no. applicationprincipal 
amount  (£)no. of 
instalments duehighest monthly 
repayment  due (£)
1 03/03/2015 200 3 246
2 12/06/2015 400 2 490
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ds complaint already and recommended  the 
complaint be upheld in part. She thought  the checks QuickQuid  carried  out initially when 
Mr D applied for his flex credit facility  were proportionate. But that from 1 December 2013, 
when he drew down  his sixth advance in less than three months, QuickQuid shouldve been 
concerned about  whether Mr D was using the account as intended, and done more  to 
ensure he could afford to meet the repayments on this agreement sustainably  going forward.
She thought  that had it done so, it wouldve likely  realised the flexible credit  facility at this 
point was no longer  affordable for Mr D, and subsequently wouldve stopped lending to him 
at this stage. 
She also thought  the checks carried out by QuickQuid  at the time Mr D applied for loans 2 
and 3 werent proportionate. But she thought  that had QuickQuid carried out proportionate 
checks, it wouldve  still likely concluded these loans wouldve been affordable  for him. So 
she didnt think it was wrong in approving them.
Mr D raised no objections  to the view.  QuickQuid responded  further,  disagreeing with the 
assessment. So the case has come  to me, as an ombudsman,  for a final decision. 
The actual sale of the loans and flex-credit no longer appear in dispute. So my decision will 
focus on whether  QuickQuid treated  Mr D fairly, taking into account  the Office  of Fair 
Ref: DRN81444132Tradings (OFT) guidance to  monitor Mr Ds repayment record  during the course of the 
agreement; and offer assistance  where he appeared to be experiencing financial difficulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of Mr Ds borrowing, QuickQuid was regulated by the OFT. The OFT required 
businesses to lend responsibly, which means QuickQuid needed to check  that Mr D could 
afford to repay his loans sustainably. The guidance states that creditors  should take 
reasonable steps to assess borrowers  likely ability to be able to meet repayments under the 
credit agreement in a sustainable  manner. It also states that this is likely to involve more 
than solely  assessing  the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay the credit in 
question.
The guidance says that meeting repayments in a sustainable manner means repaying credit 
out of existing income and/or savings  while also meeting other debt repayments  and normal  
outgoings. It also lists examples of sources  of information to assess affordability  these  
include: a record  of previous dealings with the borrower, evidence of income,  evidence  of 
expenditure, a credit  score,  a credit report from a credit reference agency  and information 
obtained from the borrower.
As well as ensuring Mr D could meet his repayments sustainably at the time the flex credit  
agreement was approved,  section 2.2 of the OFT guidance on irresponsible  lending says 
that: creditors should monitor the borrowers  repayment record  during the course of the 
agreement, offering assistance where  borrowers  appear to be experiencing financial  
difficulty.
Having looked  at Mr Ds account, I can see that:
1.by 21 December 2013, hed drawn  down money  on five previous occasions within a 
three month period, the majority  of which  were up to the full credit limit;
2.QuickQuid, despite having set out an agreement showing Mr D could repay these 
loans over up to 10 months;   then  wrote to him within around a week from each 
drawdown, telling him the full balance was now due; and
3.within around three weeks from repaying the full advance each time, Mr D was again 
returning to QuickQuid to again draw down up to the full credit  limit.
I think that by 21 December 2013,  this was enough for QuickQuid to have become 
concerned that Mr D may have potentially been  experiencing  financial difficulty , and 
shouldve carried out a full review of his financial circumstances,  verifying the information it 
was given, to ensure  he could continue to meet the repayments on this account  sustainably.
Mr Ds provided  bank  statements from around this time. So Ive looked  at these and all other 
evidence available  to me, to work  out what I think QuickQuid  wouldve found out, had it 
fulfilled its obligations  under the OFT guidance.
Ref: DRN81444133The credit agreement QuickQuids provided  dated  September 2013 includes a repayment 
schedule, setting out the minimum  monthly  repayments due. These  are calculated on the 
basis of Mr D drawing down  the maximum £400 immediately after opening  the account and 
then repaying it over ten months. Based on this repayment schedule, the highest repayment  
Mr D would potentially repay in any particular month was around £104.
From the information Mr Ds provided  from around December 2013, it appears he was 
earning in the region of £2,710 a month.  His regular monthly expenditure at this time was 
around £1,460,  and he owed around  £1,140 to other short-term lenders.  It also seems at this 
point that he was spending  over £200 a month regularly on online gambling/gaming  sites.
 
So I think had QuickQuid  monitored Mr Ds repayment record during the course of the 
agreement, and carried out a full review of his finances as a result of what  it had seen, I think  
it wouldve  realised that Mr Ds outgoings were already  exceeding his outcome. And that he 
was therefore  no longer  in a position  to be able to maintain  the repayments on this 
agreement in a sustainable manner.  And I think it wouldve therefore not agreed to any 
further drawdowns from 21 December 2013  onwards. 
what QuickQuid  should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think QuickQuid should not have allowed Mr D to 
drawdown any further funds on his flexible  credit facility from 21 December 2013.  So it 
needs to refund all of the interest  and charges Mr D paid as a result of any drawdowns after 
this date.
Specifically, it should:
refund the interest and charges paid as a result  of any drawdowns approved  on the 
flexible credit  facility  after 21 December 2013 
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple* from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about this flex credit account from Mr Ds credit file from  
21 December  2013 onwards
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid  
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN81444134my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Ds complaint in part.
And I require  CashEuroNet UK LLC trading  as QuickQuid to put things right as described  
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Brad Mcilquham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8144413