K820x#14complaint
Mr A complained to Zurich Assurance  Ltd about  the advice he was given to start a Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan. 
Mr A is being assisted with his complaint  by a third party.  For ease of reading the decision Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  been  made  by Mr A. 
 
background
Mr A started an FSAVC  with Zurich in 1993. At the time he was employed as a doctor  and 
had been a member  of his employers pension scheme since  1982.  Mr A contributed to the 
FSAVC until February 2003 and he left his employers pension scheme in 2014.  
Through his representative, Mr A complained  to Zurich  about the sale of his plan. Zurich 
upheld the complaint as it wasnt satisfied it had given Mr A sufficient  information  about the 
options he had through  his employer for topping up his pension. Zurich  offered redress to 
Mr A on a charges only basis as it considered  he wouldve  likely  joined  his employers 
additional voluntary contribution scheme, had he been given sufficient information. 
Mr A didnt accept this offer as he felt that he wouldve chosen to purchase added years  
through his employers scheme had he been given enough information by Zurich  during the 
sale. Zurich reviewed the matter again and agreed so it completed a calculation  in line with 
the guidance provided by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).   
After Zurich had completed its calculation, it wrote to Mr A to set out its offer. It explained  
that it had established that Mr A had suffered a loss as a result  of paying into his Zurich  
FSAVC instead  of buying added years in his employers  pension scheme. The calculation  
had identified a shortfall of £168,369.04, at the date of the calculation, 1 February 2019. As 
Zurich was unable  to pay this into Mr As pension, it explained that it was going to make a 
payment directly to him. 
Zurich went on to explain that Mr As benefits  from his employers pension had exceeded his 
Lifetime Allowance (LTA) protection - Fixed Protection 2014 (FP14)  so it would be 
reducing the redress amount by 55% to notionally allow for the tax that would otherwise 
have been paid. Zurich therefore  offered Mr A an ex-gratia payment of £75,766.07.
Mr A didnt accept Zurichs offer so he referred the matter to our service for review. In 
summary he doesnt agree that the loss should be reduced to reflect the LTA charge that 
Zurich says he wouldve  been required to pay, had he taken added years  rather than the 
FSAVC policy.  
One of our investigators  reviewed matters and didnt  think that Zurich had done anything  
wrong. The investigator explained  that a number of the points made by Mr A related to 
Primary LTA protection. Whereas he had fixed LTA protection 2014, which is different. And 
she hadnt seen  any evidence to suggest that Mr A sought to arrange  protection prior to 
2014. She was therefore satisfied that any previous  protections wouldnt have applied  to him 
and so the LTA protection Mr A had in place provided protection up to £1.5m. 
The investigator explained that the 55% deduction  isnt being paid to HMRC. This is purely a 
deduction made from the overall loss to take into account what Mr A wouldve  paid when he 
retired in 2014.  Zurich should put Mr A back into the position he wouldve been in, had he 
Ref: DRN86894262purchased added years. And she was satisfied that its offer does this as his overall benefits 
wouldve exceeded his LTA and incurred an LTA charge.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary hes said that:
The notional tax deduction is inconsistent with the Finance Act and HMRC guidance.  
Given the size of the deduction perhaps  the Ombudsman should advise Zurich not to 
deduct the tax but report to HMRC that a chargeable event has occurred and allow 
them to determine  if tax applies.
Had the FSAVC not been mis-sold,  Mr As LTA calculation and tax position would 
have been different.
Mr As being disadvantaged by the ombudsman service. Had his FSAVC plan been 
reviewed under the SIB/PIA pension review  the tax issue  wouldnt have occurred.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not asking Zurich to 
do any more than its already offered to do. 
Its not in dispute  that Zurich failed to provide  Mr A with sufficient information about his in-
house options when he took out his FSAVC  plan. And Zurich accepts that Mr A wouldve 
most likely chosen to purchase added years had his plan not been mis-sold. So, all thats left 
for me to decide is whether Zurich has offered fair compensation to Mr A. 
Zurich has completed a calculation in line with the FCA guidance. However,  it believes Mr A 
has exceeded his protected LTA so its reduced the amount of redress to reflect the 55% tax 
charge that wouldve  been payable had Mr A taken added  years instead.  
The Finance Act 
Mr A believes that by deducting  the notional LTA charge Zurich  is contravening the Finance 
Act 1996 s148. However, I dont agree that this is the case. Ill explain why. 
The Finance  Act 1996 sets out the law relating to National Debt and the Public  Revenue,  
and it makes further provision in connection with Finance.  
Section 148 of the Act sets out the rules for mis-sold  personal pensions. It states that no 
income tax is chargeable on any compensation payment for loss, or potential loss, suffered 
as a result  of bad advice  to contribute to a personal pension instead  of an occupational 
pension scheme. 
Id like to clarify that in this case,  Mr A wouldnt be expected to pay any tax on the lump  sum 
received. However,  in putting things right, Zurich  needs  to put Mr A in the position he would 
have been in had the FSAVC not been  mis-sold and he had instead opted to join his 
employers added years  arrangement. If Zurich failed to reduce the redress by the amount of 
tax that wouldve been paid by Mr A had he taken added years, then rather than being put in 
the position he would have been  in, this would  place him in a position of significant financial 
betterment.
Also of relevance here is the guidance issued by the FCA  FG17/9:  Guidance  for firms  on 
how to calculate  redress for unsuitable  defined benefit pension  transfers. Part 10 of this 
Ref: DRN86894263guidance states that it also applies where  a complaint is upheld concerning an FSAVC 
where its appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances of the case.  As Zurich has 
concluded Mr A wouldve  purchased added years within his employers scheme  which  is a 
defined benefit  arrangement  instead of the FSAVC, Im satisfied this guidance is 
applicable. 
The guidance sets out the standard approach to calculating redress and in section 5 it 
specifically states:  
5. If it is not possible to pay the redress amount into the customers personal 
pension by augmentation,  the redress should  be paid in the form of a lump sum to 
the customer. This should be adjusted to take account of the customers individual  
tax position. Firms should be mindful  of where  the redress methodology already 
factors in tax, such as when considering pension commencement lump  sums. A 
customer should not be left in a worse position at the point of being redressed  as a 
result of the redress either being used to augment their personal pension  or being 
paid as a lump sum. In calculating the redress amount, respondents should also take 
into account the customers wider circumstances so that they are not disadvantaged 
by receiving the redress payment.
As Mr A has taken the benefits  of his FSVAC its no longer possible for the redress  to be 
paid into his pension  plan. So Zurich is required to pay the redress  to Mr A as a lump sum.  
Considering all of the above, Im satisfied that Zurich is required to make  a deduction to 
reflect the notional  tax that Mr A wouldve paid had he purchased added years instead  of the 
FSAVC. 
I appreciate that Mr A believes hes being disadvantaged as a result  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service considering his case,  as opposed to any previous ombudsman 
scheme. But I dont agree  this is the case. Had Mr As case  been previously considered, his 
lost benefits would either have been  bought back in his employers scheme. Or his personal 
pension plan would have been  augmented. Either way, the benefits wouldve been  taxed  
accordingly when  Mr A took them. 
Crucially, I think  its important to clarify  at this point that any deduction is to reflect what  the 
position would have otherwise been,  but for the unsuitable advice. The redress  isnt being 
additionally reduced. So Mr A wont be in a worse  position than if hed taken added years. 
Ref: DRN86894264What should that notional deduction  be?
On 6 April 2006  pension rules changed  significantly. As part of these changes the LTA was 
introduced. Although there are no limits on the benefits an individual  can receive,  the LTA is 
the total amount an individual can accrue  in their registered pension plans during their 
lifetime before a tax charge  (LTA  tax charge)  will apply. So when the limit is exceeded an 
LTA tax charge  is applied  on the remaining benefits.  
The LTA charge applied is either a deduction  of 55% when benefits above  the limit are taken 
as a lump sum. Or 25% when the benefits  are taken as an income.  However, its important 
to note that when  the benefits are taken as income the individual  will also pay their normal  
rate of tax for that year as well as the LTA charge. So for a 40% tax payer   as is the case  
with Mr A - any income payments over the LTA are reduced by a total of 55% (25% LTA 
charge on the initial amount and 40% tax on the remaining income payments). 
The LTA limit has changed over the years, its currently set at £1,055,000 for the 2019-2020 
tax-year. However, since 2006, HMRC have made available a variety  of protections  which  
individuals could  apply  for where their benefits  have, or are expected, to exceed the LTA. 
This means  that any amount  in excess of the protected limit will have an LTA charge.  
Mr A applied for FP14 protection  in 2014 and this provides him with an LTA of £1.5m. Prior 
to this other  protections were available that would have provided a higher level of protection.  
But Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to show that he investigated  the possibility of 
protecting his LTA prior to 2014. And at the point he applied  the only available  protection 
was FP14. At that time, the value of the benefits from his employers  pension  scheme was 
already in excess of £1.5m so any benefits taken above the limit will be liable for the LTA 
charge. This would be the case even if hed taken added years initially  rather  than the 
FSAVC. So I dont  agree that the LTA and tax position would be any different had Mr A not 
received unsuitable advice.
For the reasons  explained above its not possible for the redress to be paid into Mr As 
pension. And in any event, the terms of FP14  would be breached if a payment was made  
into his pension which would result in him losing his fixed protection. Therefore, in this case 
a direct payment  being made  to Mr A would effectively represent a payment from his 
pension. Due to the size of his pension, such a payment would be subject to the 55% LTA 
charge. So I believe  the deduction is fair in the circumstances.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Zurichs offer to redress Mr A in line with the guidance 
issued by the FCA is fair. And I think its appropriate in the circumstances that the redress  is 
reduced by 55% to allow for the notional tax charge that would have  been  applied had Mr A 
purchased added years in his employers scheme  and his benefits had been taken in 2014. 
Ref: DRN86894265So for these reasons Im not asking Zurich to do any more than its already offered. I leave it 
to Mr A to decide if he wishes to accept Zurichs offer. 
final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think Zurich Assurance Ltds  offer as set out in its letter 
dated 11 February 2019 is fair. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8689426