K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Harvey  & Thompson Limited (the business)  damaged  the items that he 
pledged against his loan agreements.
background 
Mr A entered into two loans agreement with the business against which he pledged items. 
The first loan agreement  was entered into in May 2018 and was for £500  with a pocket 
watch and chain totalling 50g pledged. The second agreement was entered  into in 
June 2018 and was for £600 against which a pocket watch weighing  29g was pledged.
Mr A says that the watch pledged against the June agreement was damaged  by the 
business. He also says that he said he didnt  want his items gold tested but this happened 
and left a mark on the items.
The business says that before it gold tests  any items  it always  gets permission from the 
owner as the process involves making a small scratch on the item. It says that it wouldnt 
have taken the watch from Mr A if he had said he didnt want it tested.
In regard to the watch that Mr A says it damaged, the business says that when the watch 
was brought in it tried to check if it was working  but when doing this part of the watch  came 
off. It says that as a gesture  of goodwill it agreed to get the watch  repaired at no cost to 
Mr A. It notes  the repairer  commented  the watch was rusty inside and it says this could be 
why the part broke  off. It says the watch is now ready to be collected  and that it froze the 
interest from the point  of repair.
Mr A initially  said he didnt  want to repay  the loans and wanted  his pledged items released. 
He also said he wanted his expenses for legal advice covered. During our investigation, 
Mr A and the business agreed that Mr A would pay the interest  and capital on his May 2018 
agreement but just repay the capital on the June agreement. At which  point the pledged 
items would be released. The business  said that Mr A should not then bring  the repaired 
watch back again. Mr A said he would collect the items.
As both parties agreed to the suggested settlement the case was closed.
However, the agreed resolution didnt happen  and Mr A asked for his complaint to be 
reopened. He said that both watches were  damaged  and the document  he was given was 
wrong.
As Mr A didnt raise  his concerns regarding the documentation until after this complaint had 
been investigated it was explained that this issue had not been  considered  by the business  
and so if Mr A wished to continue with this he would need to raise it as a separate  complaint. 
Mr As complaint regarding the damage  to his pledged items was reopened.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
it was more likely than not that the damage to the watch pledged against the 
June 2018 occurred due to the state the watch was in when it was taken to the 
business. That said, the damage  occurred  while the business  was assessing the item 
and so I understood why it had some responsibility for this;
Ref: DRN86061602the business had the watch repaired at no cost to Mr A, which  I found was a 
reasonable resolution;
I couldnt say what  was explained  to Mr A but given the need to establish  a value for 
an item I found the business  explanation  of the need to carry out a gold test 
reasonable. On balance  I found it more likely than not that this was explained  to Mr A 
and that an agreement would have only been entered into on these  grounds. 
Therefore I didnt find that the business was required to do anything  in regard to this 
part of Mr As complaint;
Mr A said that he would repay the capital amount on the June 2018 agreement  but 
not the interest. The business accepted this and has confirmed this offer is still 
available. Given the circumstances  of this complaint I found  this fair.
The business confirmed  that at the time of this decision, Mr As items were still available. 
Therefore I found it reasonable  that if Mr A made the payment required under the May 2018  
agreement (as set out in the agreement) and paid the capital  amount  due under the June 
2018 agreement  his pledged items should  be released.
The business accepted my provisional  decision. Mr A didnt.  He reiterated his concerns  
about the damage to his items and about  the documentation.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has said that the items he pledged were  damaged while  in the care of the business. As 
I set out in my provisional decision the business  explained what happened in regard  to the 
watch that Mr A says was damaged. It said that when  it checked  if the item was working a 
part came off. Although  it didnt accept it was responsible for the damage  it had the item 
repaired at no charge to Mr A. I find this a reasonable  resolution  to this part of Mr As 
complaint. 
Mr A then said that he would collect the item and repay the capital but not the interest. The 
business accepted this as long as it was agreed  the item wouldnt be returned. I find this a 
reasonable resolution to this issue.
Mr A says that damage was also caused  by the gold testing. I appreciate the comments  
Mr A has made about this and that he didnt  agree  to this happening.  However,  based  on the 
evidence I have seen,  and as I set out in my provisional decision, I found it more  likely than 
not that the need to gold test was explained  to Mr A and that the agreement would have only 
been entered into on these grounds. Mr A hasnt provided any new information that has 
meant my view on this part of his complaint has changed and I do not find that the business  
is required to do anything  in regard to this issue.
Mr A has also raised concerns about the documents provided and the date and time of 
payment. It has been explained that this has not been considered by the business and so if 
Mr A wished to continue with this he would need to raise it as a separate complaint.
Ref: DRN86061603Overall, I think its fair that Mr A is only required to repay the capital in regard to the item that 
was repaired and that once this is paid the item is returned to Mr A. I find that the other item 
is still subject to the terms of the agreement that is Mr A is required to repay the capital and 
interest if he wishes to reclaim  the item.
The business has confirmed that at the time of this decision, Mr As items are still available. 
Therefore I find it reasonable that if Mr A makes the payment required under the May 2018  
agreement (as set out in the agreement) and pays the capital amount due under the 
June 2018 agreement his pledged  items  should be released.
my final decision
My final decision is that the offer made by Harvey & Thompson Limited to waive the interest  
on the June 2018 agreement is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8606160