K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably when refusing to extend  his interest only mortgage  term. He wants  the matter  
reviewed with more compassion.
background
Mr D had an interest only mortgage with Halifax, taken out through  a broker, which is due to 
end in July 2020 (having been  extended once before). Mr D asked Halifax  to extend the 
mortgage term again to give him more time; he said that it refused as it no longer offered 
interest only mortgages. Mr D felt that this was unfair and unreasonable as if he cant repay 
the mortgage when it ends, hed have to sell the property (though he hoped to inherit money 
in the future to repay  the mortgage and owned another property with a relative).
Mr D complained and said that he couldnt afford  a repayment mortgage.  Halifax said that 
Mr D didnt have an acceptable  repayment plan, and the regulations had changed since the 
mortgage was taken out and extended. Halifax pointed out that the second property couldnt 
be relied upon as the co-owner might object  to the sale, and an inheritance  wasnt  
guaranteed. It said that Mr D hadnt  provided  evidence of a suitable pension  to be used as a 
repayment vehicle
Mr D complained to us, and confirmed that the second property wasnt yet available to repay 
the mortgage as it was lived in by relatives  and his pension wouldnt be sufficient. Halifax 
said that the issue was the lack of a repayment plan; it still offered interest only mortgages. 
The investigators view was that it was reasonable for a lender to expect to be paid in full at 
the end of a mortgage term, and Mr D agreed  to this when he took out the mortgage. She 
said that Halifax was also fair and reasonable in saying Mr D didnt have  an acceptable 
repayment plan.  The investigator didnt think extending the term would be in Mr Ds best 
interests as a result (she thought that it was likely to only delay matters and possible make 
things worse). She noted that Mr D had options  available to him and said he should take 
financial advice.
Mr D disagreed. He was unhappy that Halifax wouldnt extend the mortgage now when it did 
previously and believed  his repayment plan was reasonable. The investigator explained that 
the mortgage regulations had changed  since the extension and Mr Ds repayment  plan 
wasnt satisfactory.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D agreed to repay Halifax in full when his interest only mortgage ended, and its fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to expect this to happen.  When the mortgage was first taken out, the 
sale of the property was an acceptable repayment  plan, but Mr D doesnt want  to do this. 
And when  the mortgage was extended for another five years,  the sale of the property was 
still an acceptable repayment plan under the then regulations. 
Ref: DRN82620052I note that the extension  was agreed  before the current, and stricter, mortgage regulations 
came into force  now, the sale of the property isnt seen as acceptable and lenders are 
required to establish  that theres an acceptable  repayment plan before lending, which 
includes extending a mortgage. This is the core of the problem in this case  it isnt that 
Halifax wont offer interest only mortgages; its that Mr D hasnt got a repayment  plan.
Mr D accepts that his pension isnt enough to pay the mortgage. Hes unwilling to sell his 
second property,  and in any event its isnt clear that the occupiers or the co-owner would 
agree to any sale. No inheritance is guaranteed and cant be relied  upon.  And if even sale of 
the property was an acceptable  repayment  plan, Mr D doesnt want to do this. In all the 
circumstances, its fair and reasonable for Halifax to say that Mr D doesnt have a repayment  
plan and to refuse to extend the mortgage  in the circumstances. I agree  with the investigator 
that the extension mightnt be in Mr Ds best interests as its just delaying  resolution in the 
hope something changes;  that isnt a responsible lending  strategy.
I encourage Mr D to take the time between now and the end of his mortgage term to explore 
other options if he wishes to avoid selling his property.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 
16 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8262005