K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that she was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  called the Privilege 
Account (PA) by The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op Bank). 
background
Mrs A took out a fee free Cashminder bank account with Co-op  Bank in May 2008.
Mrs A took out a PA nine months  later in February 2009 which incurred a monthly fee of 
£9.50.
Mrs A says Co-op Bank  recommended she take out the PA, but it wasnt  right for her.
Our adjudicator looked into Mrs As complaint and decided that Co-op Bank didnt do 
anything wrong  in selling the PA. Mrs A disagrees  so the complaint has come  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs As complaint.
Mrs A says that in early 2009 she had recently come into the UK and been using a Co-op 
Bank Cashminder account. She says this was a limited  account which  provided  restricted  
use of a debit  card and didnt offer savings  facilities.
In February 2009  Mrs A says she qualified for full UK banking  facilities  and wanted a normal  
current account with a debit card and also a savings account  that offered interest. Mrs A 
says she talked to Co-op  Bank and it recommended that she open  a PA with a monthly fee.
Mrs A is clear  that she knew she was opening  a PA, that it had a range of benefits, and that 
there was a monthly fee. Her complaint is that she says she was told that getting a PA was 
the only way to get a normal current account  with a debit card and a savings account that 
offered interest.
Co-op Bank  says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend 
the PA to Mrs A personally or advise her to take it. I dont know what  was said during the sale, 
but Ive not seen anything  such as a record of a discussion  about Mrs As needs and 
circumstances or a suitability check to show  me clearly that it did make a personal 
recommendation to her. I accept its possible that in providing information to Mrs A and 
explaining the benefits of the PA, the Co-op  Bank  may have  said or implied that it was a good  
idea to take out a PA. But this isnt the same as a personal recommendation. And based  on 
this services knowledge of Co-op  Banks  sales practices at the time, I think its more  likely 
than not that Co-op Bank sold the PA to Mrs A on an information only basis.  
This means  Co-op Bank did not have to ensure that the PA was suitable for Mrs A, but it did 
have to provide  Mrs A with good enough  information about the PA so she could make an 
informed decision about whether to have it or not.
Ref: DRN83077582Ive already said above Mrs A says she knew what she was buying. But I need to consider 
the core of her complaint  which is whether Co-op Bank went  on to tell Mrs A that taking out 
the PA was the only way she could get a normal current account with a debit card and a 
savings account.
I dont doubt Mrs As honest recollections  about  her conversation with Co-op Bank  but I think  
her memory is mistaken. I say this because Mrs A had come over to the UK to work  and she 
knew enough about bank accounts  to firstly obtain her Cashminder  account. And then she 
understood when  she qualified for full banking facilities and knew she wanted a current 
account with full facilities including the debit card and also a savings account. So I think  its 
more likely than not that she would have  spent significant time looking into banking  facilities 
and known that fee free accounts with debit cards  and fee free savings accounts were widely 
available from both the Co-op Bank and other banks and financial institutions. I also think  
that if getting a savings  account was a key driver  in her decision  to take out the PA as she 
says it was, she would have used it quickly and with a substantial deposit.  But the record  of 
her PA savings account shows  that she didnt use the savings account at all until December 
2009 when a deposit went in and came out on the same day. And the next deposit didnt 
come in until April 2010.
The PA benefits  included worldwide travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, £200  interest  
and charge free overdraft and preferential  savings account rates.  There was nothing  about 
Mrs As circumstances that would have  prevented  her from using these. So I think  the PA 
was of interest to Mrs A, and she wouldve thought it useful.
Mrs A says she hasnt used these benefits  other  than the preferential savings account rates. 
But it was up to Mrs A whether she used these or not. And Mrs A couldve closed the PA at 
any time, but she hasnt  and she still has it.
So I think its more likely  than not that Co-op  Bank  provided Mrs A with sufficient information 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the PA, and Mrs A chose to take it 
out.  And  there wasnt  anything that Co-op  Bank didnt tell her that wouldve caused her not 
to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8307758