K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Virgin Money  Plc (Virgin)  stopped  giving him the promotional  interest  
rate on his credit card and have started  charging him interest. 
background
Mr D took out a credit card with Virgin when they had a promotion that offered a 0% interest  
rate. When  he did this, Virgin sent him some  information  about his account. In this, it said if 
we do not receive  the Minimum Payment when it Is due or you go over your Credit Limit, we 
will withdraw any promotional rate with effect from the start of that statement period. 
Virgin sent Mr D monthly  statements that said the same thing. It is under a heading called 
Important information about promotional interest  rates. This is in bold type on every  statement. 
The minimum payment in October  2017 was due on 4 October, but Mr D didnt pay it until 27 
October. Because  of this, he got a late payment  charge  and had to pay interest. Also,  Virgin 
stopped letting him have the 0% interest  rate. 
Mr D didnt think it was fair of Virgin to do this as hed only missed  one payment. It meant  
that he has had to pay a lot of money  in interest  payments.
Our investigator thought that Virgin applied  the terms  and conditions  of the account and that 
this condition had been made clear to Mr D. For that reason, she didnt think  that Virgin had 
done anything  wrong.
Mr D disagreed with this. He thought that he had made an honest  mistake and Virgin  
should have held the promotional offer open to him. And so the complaint has been passed  
to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether Virgin acted fairly in stopping their promotional rate. 
I think they have. Ill explain why.
 
I think that their terms were clear,  and I dont think they are unfair.  It was written in every  
statement that Mr D was sent that he had to pay the minimum amount each month and that, 
if he didnt, Virgin would  withdraw the promotional  offer. So I think  that Mr D should have 
known this.
When he didnt make the payment in October 2017  until nearly two weeks  after he was 
supposed to, I think  that Virgin were  entitled  to cancel their offer and charge Mr D interest at 
the usual rate. I cant see that they did anything wrong in doing that. 
I realise that Mr D feels that the amount of interest was very high, considering  he only 
missed one payment.  But Virgin told him it would withdraw the promotional  rate if he didnt 
stick to terms  of the offer and thats  what they did here. I know that Mr D will be disappointed  
by this, but I dont  uphold  his complaint.
 
Ref: DRN85395212my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8539521