K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the settlement that Markerstudy Insurance Services Limited  offered  
for his car under his motor insurance policy. He wants it to repair  his car or increase the 
settlement.
background
Mr M lost control of his car and hit a parked car. Markerstudy deemed Mr Ms car to be 
beyond economical  repair. And so it offered  him a settlement for its market value at the time 
of loss. It first offered Mr M £1,800 less deductions. But it increased  this to £3,108 less the 
policy excess and a deduction for the cars pre-existing damage.  But Mr M thought  his car 
was worth more. He also thought he should  have been provided with a courtesy  car.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Markerstudys offer was fair and reasonable. This was because  it was made according to our 
approach and it deducted half the cost of repairing  the fault that caused  the accident.  He 
thought Mr Ms policy didnt provide a courtesy  car. He thought Markerstudy had acted 
outside the policy terms by providing Mr M with seven days  cash in lieu payment instead of a 
courtesy car. 
Mr M replied that he didnt know that he didnt have courtesy car entitlement  as he hadnt 
received his policy documents. He didnt  think Markerstudy should make  a deduction for the 
pre-existing damage as he thought  it had been caused in the accident.  He said Markerstudy 
hadnt refunded  any premium. He said he had other losses. Mr M asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that the loss of his car has caused Mr M financial difficulties as he needs 
it for his work. I can see that Mr Ms policy provides for the cars  market value in the case of 
its total loss. But Mr M thinks hes been  offered only half the value of his car.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
The investigator thought Markerstudys offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how 
he came  to this conclusion. I can see that he obtained valuations from the motor  trade  
guides we use for cars of the same, make, model,  mileage and condition  as Mr Ms car. The 
average of these valuations was close to the final offer Markerstudy made.  
Ref: DRN81406092Mr M provided adverts  for similar cars advertised  for sale at higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive  as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices.  
Markerstudy made a deduction from the settlement for the £500  policy  excess. I know that 
Mr M thinks the accident wasnt his fault,  but I think this is fair and reasonable. This is 
because Markerstudy hadnt  recovered  its losses and the excess is always  the first part of a 
claim that should be paid. 
Mr M said he hadnt had a refund of premium. But I dont think  this would be fair and 
reasonable as hes used  the policy and the premium is for an annual contract although it 
may be paid monthly.  
Markerstudy also deducted half the cost of the repair of the cars  steering wheel pump.  An 
engineers report  found that the mechanical failure of this led to the accident. Mr M 
challenged this, but I cant see that hes provided  any engineering evidence  to show that 
Markerstudys engineer  was wrong.
Mechanical failure is excluded from cover  under  the policy. This is shown on page 7 of the 
policy document. I think its fair and reasonable that Markerstudy should make  a deduction 
for this re-existing damage  as this will affect the value  of the car. This is stated in the policy 
document on page 6. Our approach is that an insurer should deduct  half the repair  costs  for 
pre-existing damage, which I can see that its done. So I cant  say its done  anything wrong 
in making this deduction. 
So I think Markerstudys valuation and settlement offer for Mr Ms car is fair and reasonable 
as it was made correctly  according to our approach.  So I dont require it to increase this. 
Mr M asked  for Markerstudy to repair his car if it wouldnt  increase the settlement. But 
Markerstudys engineer  established that the car was uneconomical to repair. The repair  
costs exceeded  the valuation of the car. So I dont think  it would be reasonable to expect 
Markerstudy to repair the car. 
Mr M said he hadnt been able to work  because he was without his car. But I think 
Markerstudy isnt responsible for this as this is an exception from cover stated on page 7 of 
the policy booklet. 
From the file notes,  I can see that Mr M complained to Markerstudy about how long it was 
taking to settle his claim, so Ive also looked at this concern. Markerstudy made  its first offer 
of settlement  14 days after the accident. I think this was reasonable as it had to have an 
engineer inspect the car. Mr M then disputed the valuation. 
It then took Markerstudy  a further  14 days to make  a second  offer after its engineer  reviewed 
the adverts he provided and it checked  the motor trade guides. Markerstudy upheld  Mr Ms 
complaint that the valuation was too low and it then increased its offer. I think this was a 
delay, but I cant  say that Markerstudy caused Mr M any loss.
This is because I can see that Mr M didnt  accept an interim payment offered when he 
rejected the first offer.  We expect a consumer to try to mitigate his losses.  Mr M could have 
taken the interim offer and bought  a replacement car. So I dont think  Markerstudy  should  be 
responsible for Mr Ms loss of earnings. 
Ref: DRN81406093Mr M was also concerned that he hadnt  recovered  his equipment from the car and hadnt  
been provided with a replacement car so he could continue working. 
I can see that Mr Ms policy  has a specific exclusion from cover for a courtesy car. I think  this 
is significant and I would  expect it to be set out in the policy wording  and in the summary  or 
Key Facts document, which  I can see it is. So I think it was sufficiently brought  to Mr Ms 
attention and I cant say it was wrong  for Markerstudy to apply it. If Mr M hasnt received his 
policy documents, then I think  he should contact his broker about this. 
I can see that Markerstudy paid Mr M £210 for not being able to arrange  a courtesy car for 
seven days as it agreed. I think this was outside  the policy terms and conditions. I cant  
require Markerstudy to provide anything further in this regard. 
Regarding Mr Ms equipment, I can see that hes been in conversation  with Markerstudy  
about this. Its written to him explaining that he can arrange with its salvage agent for their 
removal. Or, if he provides purchase receipts it will consider a cash  settlement. I can see 
that some  taxi-related items are covered under the policy subject to terms and conditions.  
Mr M hadnt complained  to Markerstudy  about  this point. So I think if hes unhappy with its 
offer, he should first complain to it to allow it to respond. If he remains  unhappy, he can bring 
the matter to us. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019..
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8140609