K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains as a director of C, a limited  company, that Paymentsense Limited mis-sold it 
a card payment  facility.
background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
Mr M added that he felt his business had incurred costs that were consequential  to having 
paid Paymentsense  Ltd during the contract to date.  He provided some further evidence of 
bank statements and costs that, he says, caused his business  additional financial  
inconvenience beyond  the amount of the award  in my provisional conclusions.
I have considered the additional evidence and position described by Mr M and I believe  the 
concerns over Mr Ms businesss cashflow, and the unnecessary difficulties it has been  
caused by the original  arrangements, to be fairly  reflected in the proposed award  of £350. I 
am mindful  that C will have had the use of the card payment facility without charge since it 
began, allowing it to take card payments for transactions that wouldnt otherwise have been 
possible.
Taking that into account, I am not minded to increase the award already proposed.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and, in more detail in my provisional  decision, my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require 
Paymentsense Limited to take the steps 1 to 4 in my provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Adrian Bird
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN84758702Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains as a director of C, a limited  company,  that Paymentsense Limited  mis-sold it
a card payment facility
background
C was contacted by one of its customers, a Paymentsense field representative, about arranging  a 
facility to accept card payments. C says the field rep told it the facility would cost £10 each month plus 
0.3% of the value of any card payment. C has since discovered the actual costs are significantly 
higher - sometimes reaching over £50 each month and in one month over £120. C adds that the 
contract runs much  longer  than it was told. C wants PaymentSense to cancel  the arrangements.
Paymentsense responded  to say that contacting the field rep would be difficult and so it was seeking 
to rely on the contract wording.  It felt the terms and costs  were sufficiently clear, but said it would give 
C the benefit  of doubt. It offered to amend  some contract terms to bring the costs  closer to those  C 
had said it was told about.
C didnt accept  this offer and referred the complaint  to us. Our investigator noted that the facility to 
take card payments was made up of two different contracts with separate suppliers. The equipment  
used by C at its place  of business was provided  under  a hire contract  and the payment processing 
facility connected to the equipment was another contract- a Merchant Services Agreement (MSA).
While this is not an unusual arrangement, it has been  explained to both parties  that we dont have 
power to deal with a complaint about the provider  of the hire of the payment terminal  equipment, as 
we can only deal with hire agreements where  those arrangements amount  to a regulated activity. This 
agreement falls outside  that definition  as C is a limited company.
The investigator concluded  that we could  deal with the complaint about the entry  into the MSA.  She 
felt that Paymentsense  hadnt properly  explained all the associated  costs, and that the breakage 
costs of the hire agreement  were sufficiently closely  connected to Cs entry  into the MSA that it would 
be fair for Paymentsense to include  these in the settlement proposals.
C accepted the investigators  opinion.  But although Paymentsense made a further offer of amended 
contract terms to C, it didnt accept the investigators recommendations  or agree  that it had mis-sold  
the contracts. The complaint has now been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
C said that it trusted the field rep, as she was one of Cs customers. C has given a clear  description of 
what it says the field rep, as Paymentsenses agent, told it about  the contract  costs.  I have no reason  
to doubt what C says it was told, not least because this appears to have been broadly substantiated in 
the field reps  comments  to Paymentsense,  made in April 2019.
Its therefore  somewhat  disappointing to note that in its final response letter Paymentsense appears to 
suggest that it had had difficulty in contacting its field rep, and that it needed  to rely on the contract 
wording. By that point, Paymentsense knew the field reps response,  including her account  of why C 
had ended up with a contract different from the one they discussed.
I dont consider it fair for Paymentsense to have taken  such a stance, in light of the available 
evidence. In my view, this approach has caused unnecessary difficulty  to C in getting  matters 
resolved. It has caused C to incur costs over and above those discussed  and agreed,  leading  to 
cashflow issues.
Ref: DRN84758703The MSA contains further costs for additional aspects  chargeable to C. I cannot see any evidence  of 
these costs having been  discussed between C and the field rep. They  include:
 PCI Phone Validation- £2.50
 PCI enrolment- £4.95  each month paid quarterly upfront
 Discounted Till Rolls- £17.95
 Plus Rewards  Programme- 6 months free then £59.95 each year,  paid upfront
I acknowledge Paymentsenses point that C signed the contract using an e-signature, that all the 
costs were clearly  displayed, and that C should  not have signed  if it did not want  to accept  all the 
terms and costs. But I also note that Paymentsenses Final Audit Report shows  that less than five 
minutes elapsed between C receiving the contracts and returning them signed to Paymentsense. The 
documents are, by nature,  quite detailed  and I consider it more likely  that C based its actions on its 
trust in what  the field rep had told it. To me, that doesnt seem unreasonable  I dont think 
Paymentsense is suggesting  that prospective customers should not be able to rely on what  its 
representatives tell them.
Further, the field rep has said she was present  when C signed the contract. It follows that she would  
have been in a position to check that the terms reflected their discussion, and would also have known 
that C had not read the contract terms before  signing. However, she allowed C to complete the 
process.
On balance, and having considered all the evidence, I am minded to uphold  Cs complaint for the 
reasons I have given. C has found itself exposed to much higher costs than it wanted and was sold.
Ive considered whether  it would be appropriate to treat the representations made by the field rep as 
being incorporated into the contract; that is, that they should replace the costs shown on the 
agreement. However, that does not to my mind present the best way to resolve  matters. It might  
present difficulties  should  either the hire agreement or the MSA need to be enforced  in the future, and 
it exposes C to possible  additional fees that it would not have  anticipated.
Instead, I think the fair way to resolve  the situation would  be to put C as close as possible  in the 
position it was in before it entered into the arrangements. That requires  Paymentsense to terminate 
the MSA with immediate  effect at no cost to C, and return any payments C has made  under the 
agreement, along with interest  on these amounts to reflect the fact that C hasnt had the use of that 
money.
C will also need to be released from the hire agreement with the third party. As I understand it, that 
will result in C incurring a breakage  cost in the region of £1,500. As C would not be in this agreement 
but for its entry into the MSA, I find that it would be reasonable for Paymentsense to ensure that it 
either arranges for the breakage cost to be waived, or that it compensates C for any such cost C 
incurs. In either event,  Paymentsense  should pay C an amount equivalent to the payments C has 
made under the hire agreement,  again  with interest for the reason outlined above.
In recognition of Cs concerns over cashflow, and the unnecessary  difficulties it has been caused both 
by the original  arrangements and the way Paymentsense handled matters, I also consider that 
Paymentsense should  pay additional compensation of £350.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Cs complaint. To settle it, Paymentsense Limited should take 
the steps outlined above, which for clarity  are:
1. Refund to C all payments made under the merchant services and hire agreements
since they began
2. On the sums in 1. add 8% simple  interest per year on each payment C made, from
the date C paid it to the date of settlement
3. Arrange for both the merchant services and hire agreements  to be terminated with no
further cost to C. This might  require Paymentsense to pay C a sum equivalent to that
Ref: DRN84758704required by the third-party owner of the equipment subject to the Hire Agreement
contract to cancel that contract
4. Pay C £350 for the inconvenience caused to it by this matter
Adrian Bird
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8475870