K820x#14complaint
Mrs R, on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr R, says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
In 2000 Mr and Mrs R bought a PPI policy at the same time as they took out a further 
advance on their mortgage in one of the banks branches. The policy  was in Mr Rs sole 
name and gave him protection against  accident,  sickness and unemployment. They  paid a 
monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed so the complaint was
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  my 
decision is based on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what I consider is most 
likely given  the evidence  we do have and what we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the 
time. 
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs R says they never asked for PPI. I cant know what  was said in the meeting so I dont 
know how the PPI was presented to Mr and Mrs R. But Lloyds has been able to provide the 
PPI application  form and direct debit mandate that Mr R signed. And theres nothing on 
those forms that I think could reasonably have led him to believe the PPI was mandatory. On 
balance, I think its most  likely Lloyds made  it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr and Mrs R 
agreed to take it out for Mr R.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R so it had to make  sure it was right for him. I know  
Mrs R feels strongly  he didnt  need  the cover.  Shes told us he was a director  and entitled to 
12 months full salary in the event of redundancy or sickness. But I dont think I can rely on 
this to reach my decision. I say this as I need to be sure what his benefits where when he 
bought the policy in 2000. We have asked for evidence of this, but what  has been  supplied 
shows only that Mr R was promoted in 2007.  It makes no reference  to his benefits,  either  
then or in 2000. So I dont  think its safe to assume  Mr R had such generous employee 
benefits at the time of the sale. I say this as Mrs R has told us it was his employment status 
as director that meant he would receive  full salary  for 12 months. And he wasnt  promoted  
until 2007. So I think its most likely he was entitled  to a less generous benefits package  at 
the time of the sale.
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months  for 
each successful accident and sickness claim. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy 
cover. Mr and Mrs R had borrowed quite a large  sum over a long period secured  on their 
home. Given the serious consequences of missing  mortgage payments, I think the cover  
wouldve been useful  for Mr and Mrs R if Mr R was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Ref: DRN87939602Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr and Mrs R all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. I dont know it made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And I dont  know that it pointed out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But Mr R doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of those things (such as 
the type of employment contract or any pre-existing medical conditions). So I dont think  
better information wouldve changed their decision.
Mrs R has mentioned shes  had previous mortgage  PPI complaints upheld but I can only 
comment here on the individual merits of this case.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs R lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R, on behalf  of 
herself and the estate  of the late Mr R, to accept  or reject my decision before 
28 November 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8793960