K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK plc delayed in crediting his current account with money  
hed transferred from another bank which was to be used for his house purchase completion.
He says he was then caused worry and stress  as Santander initially  couldnt tell him where
his money was.
background
 
Mr T was about to complete on his house  purchase and transferred a large sum of money 
into his current account with Santander so this would be available for him to transfer to his 
solicitor in time. He was moving out of his rented accommodation and had given notice for 
when his tenancy would end to coincide with this.
Santander received  the money  the next day; however it didnt  credit  his account until six 
days after hed sent it. During this period, Mr T made many phone  calls to Santander and his 
other bank  to find out where his money had gone. He also checked his online banking a 
number of times to see whether the money was in his account.
This meant that Mr Ts property purchase had to be delayed and he had to make 
arrangements to pay the vendor £800  in a form of rental payment so that he could move into 
the property while the issue with his money was resolved.
Once the money was credited to Mr Ts account,  he was able to transfer the payment 
needed to his solicitor  so that the house purchase could go through.
Santander said there was a delay caused by regulatory checks  it was required to make 
before the money could be released. It apologised for lack of information given to Mr T about 
what was happening.  It said Mr Ts money had been held in a suspense account while it was 
carrying out these  checks. It paid Mr T a total of £450 as compensation to recognise the 
inconsistencies in its service and Mr Ts inconvenience.
the investigators opinion
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought that Santander had 
responded fairly to Mr Ts concerns.
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators findings  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said the additional payment hed made to the vendor could be seen on his account 
statements. He didnt  think the investigator had taken  into account the number of times  hed 
logged on to his online banking looking for the money. Hed asked Santander for the details 
of his activity as he could only access the past three month period, which  didnt cover  the 
time in question.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019. I said that I thought the 
complaint should  be upheld  and Santander should pay Mr T a further  £800.
I said that I appreciated that Santander  may have had to look to undertake  specific checks  
and verification when it receives a large  sum into an account such  as this. This can be to be 
prevent money  laundering and to ensure the safety  and security  of its customers  money.
Ref: DRN87545382But in Mr Ts particular  circumstances here,  I didnt  think it had been explained why these  
regulatory checks took this length of time, particularly  as Mr T was in regular contact with it 
trying to find out what was happening. I though  it was likely that Mr T wouldve made 
Santander aware of his situation; why the money  had been transferred  and the time 
pressure he was experiencing with his house purchase coming to completion.
I thought the lack of information  Santander was able to give to Mr T about where his money 
was, was likely to have  caused an increased amount of upset  and worry at an already 
stressful time for him.
Mr T had committed to buying the property and completing on a specific  date but this then 
couldnt be met because of the delay with his money crediting his account.  He was also 
moving out of his rental property on that date and not completing meant  that, through  his 
solicitor, he made arrangements to pay the vendor an amount of £800 so that he would be 
able to move  into the property and have somewhere to live. The investigator has spoken to 
the vendor who has confirmed  the reason the payment  was made,  and Mr Ts statement 
shows the payment  to the vendor.
Overall, I thought it was likely that Santander couldve been resolved this situation earlier 
than it did. Had it done this, it may have been that Mr Ts house purchase  couldve  then 
gone ahead  as and when  expected. 
I said Santanders payment of £450 reflected the inconvenience Mr T was caused through 
the situation and lack of information it gave him. But, I also currently  thought  Santander 
should pay Mr T an additional £800 to represent  the costs  he incurred through  needing to 
make arrangements  to be able to move into the home he was buying  ahead  of the purchase 
completion, when  hed already committed to leaving his rental home in the anticipation of his 
original completion date.
I said that I knew Mr T would like the specific information about his online banking  activity 
through the time before  the money was credited to his account. Santander had said that he 
can access this through  looking at his activity log in his online services  and entering the 
specific dates. However,  if Mr T was unable to do this because the historic information is 
limited by the dates,  then I said I would ask that Santander provide  him with this information  
separately.
the responses
Santander said it was willing  to accept my provisional decision and asked the investigator for 
the evidence to show the £800 payment for the additional rent Mr T paid, which  he has since 
sent to it.
Mr T didnt  respond to my provisional decision. So Im unclear about whether hes been able 
to access the information  he wanted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN87545383As Mr T didnt add anything in response  to my provisional findings and Santander has said it 
would accept them, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions that I reached.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK plc to pay Mr T a 
further £800. If Mr T confirms that hes been  unable  to access  the historic  information he 
wanted online, then I ask Santander to send this to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8754538