K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
Mr B took out an instalment loan with Satsuma in March 2018. Satsuma expected Mr B to 
repay the £1,000 loan over 12 months  at about £166  each month.
Mr B says he was in a difficult  financial position  with a number of loans and debts. Mr B 
wants Satsuma to refund the interest  that he paid together with interest on the refund.
Satsuma says that Mr B declared a monthly income of £1,300 with £300 of monthly  
outgoings. Satsuma  also carried  out a credit  check which didnt reveal anything of concern.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Bs complaint be upheld.  He thought that Satsuma 
carried out adequate checks before agreeing the loan. And based on the income and 
expenditure figures Mr B gave Satsuma,  it was reasonable to have agreed to lend.
Mr B doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. He says that if Satsuma had 
asked for bank statements, it wouldve seen a number of gambling transactions.  Mr B says 
that if Satsuma had checked his credit file, it wouldve seen a history of taking out multiple 
payday loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see whether Mr B 
could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing, the length of the agreement  
and his borrowing  history.  But there wasnt a set list of checks that Satsuma had to do.
Even if I find that Satsuma didnt  carry out adequate checks, it wont  necessarily mean  that I 
must uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I would need  to be persuaded  that with proportionate checks,  
Satsuma wouldve discovered that the loan wasnt affordable for Mr B.
Satsuma expected Mr B to repay  a relatively  modest proportion  of his declared  income  each 
month. From the information Mr B gave  about  his income and expenses, it looked as though  
he could comfortably afford the repayments on the loans. 
The credit check that Satsuma carried out before the loan doesnt show anything of concern 
such a default  or late payment.
Satsuma has explained that it added a buffer  to the amounts that Mr B gave to account  for 
any undeclared credit commitments and any unexpected expenses.  Overall,  Im satisfied 
that Satsumas checks  went  far enough.
I appreciate that Mr B says he had a number of other short term loans but as far as Im 
aware, he didnt tell Satsuma about  these. I dont think it was proportionate to expect 
Ref: DRN87696762Satsuma to ask about them so early  on in Mr Bs borrowing history  particularly  as I cant 
see anything about them in the information that Satsuma has given to us.
I think it was reasonable  of Satsuma to have a degree of confidence in the information that 
Mr B gave about his finances. I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to try and independently 
verify Mr Bs financial situation  by asking to see bank statements for example. This means 
that Satsuma couldnt  reasonably have found  out about Mr Bs gambling  transactions unless 
hed made  Satsuma aware of any problems himself.
Based on what Satsuma knew about Mr B, it looked as though he had enough disposable 
income to afford the loan. I understand that my decision is likely to disappoint Mr B but I 
dont uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8769676