K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) mis-sold him two packaged  bank accounts.  
He paid a monthly  fee for the accounts  which  provided several benefits in return.
background
Mr Ms account history with TSB is as follows:
he opened a fee-free account in June 2008
this was upgraded to a Silver packaged  account  in December 2010
this was further upgraded to a Gold packaged  account in March 2012
the account was changed back to a fee-free account around May 2018
TSB doesnt agree that it mis-sold the Silver  account, so it hasnt refund any of the fees for it. 
But it says it doesnt  think the Gold account was right for Mr M, so it has refunded the 
difference between  the cost of the Gold account, and the cost Mr M wouldve paid if hed 
kept the cheaper Silver  account.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that TSB mis-sold the Silver account  to Mr M and didnt 
recommend that TSB should  pay him any compensation  for that one. He also thought that 
the way TSB has settled  the complaint about the Gold account was fair  so he didnt think 
TSB needed to do anything further. 
Mr M didnt  agree so he asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final 
decision. In my decision Ill consider the sale of the Silver account, and also whether the way 
TSB has agreed to settle the complaint  about the Gold account  is fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ms complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold  to 
him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr M was given a fair choice when he took his Silver 
account, in December 2010.
Mr M says he was told hed have to take the Silver account in order to take an overdraft, as 
the account would help his credit rating. Hes also said he wasnt  told that the account  
attracted a monthly  fee.
Ref: DRN82404192Mr M held a fee-free account for around a year and a half before he upgraded to a paid for 
account. And at the time he took the Silver  account,  I cant see that he applied for an 
overdraft.
TSB has provided copies  of Mr Ms bank statements which  suggest that he didnt  have an 
overdraft on his account until February  2011   around two months after taking the packaged 
account. So Im not persuaded  that Mr M took the account in order to have an overdraft, as 
Id have expected those  two events to happen at the same  time, or at least closer to each  
other, if that were the case.
I can also see from the statements that TSB has provided that they showed  the Silver  
accounts fee each month.  Whilst Ive seen that Mr M has said he doesnt check his bank 
statements regularly, I cant say TSB is at fault for that. It would be different if TSB hadnt 
shown the account fee, but the fact that it did and Mr M simply didnt notice it isnt something 
that TSB could control.
On balance, I think TSB made Mr M sufficiently aware that he didnt have to have  a 
packaged bank  account, and he couldve continued to hold his fee-free account if hed 
wanted to. I think its more likely that Mr M chose  to upgrade to the Silver account because  
at least some of its features appealed  to him.
From what  I know about TSBs  sales I think its likely that it made a recommendation when it 
sold the Silver account to Mr M. That means  it had to recommend an account that was 
appropriate for Mr Ms needs   taking into account  what it knew about his circumstances.
When he brought his complaint to this service Mr M said he owned  a mobile phone at the 
time he took the account, he travelled overseas a number of times per year, and he didnt 
have a car. The main  benefits of the Silver  account were mobile phone  insurance, European 
travel insurance, and car breakdown cover.
Although Mr M says he didnt have  a car when he upgraded his account, TSBs records 
show that he first used the car breakdown cover associated with the account just two days 
after upgrading. He then went  on to make use of the cover a further five times. So I think this 
benefit was something  that Mr M had a need  for.
Mr M also registered a mobile  phone  against the Silver accounts mobile phone insurance  
policy, and TSB says he made a successful claim. After his account  had been  upgraded to 
the Gold account he went on to register a further four phones over the next few years.
So although  I dont  know what conversation  took place at the time of sale, I do think  TSB 
most likely found out some information about Mr Ms circumstances to establish that he had 
both a need and a want for some of the main  benefits of the Silver account. And although  Mr 
M hasnt made any claims on the accounts  travel  insurance policy, that doesnt mean that 
he couldnt have  relied on it if hed wanted or needed to.
As well as making a fair recommendation, TSB had to give Mr M enough clear information  
about the Silver account for him to decide  if he wanted it. And for the same reasons that I 
think TSB made  a fair recommendation I also think that TSB gave him enough information 
about the account and its benefits. I know Mr M has said that TSB did tell him about  the 
benefits but not the fee, but I dont think its reasonable to conclude that Mr M wouldve 
thought hed started to receive  a number of benefits from TSB that he wasnt  previously able 
to access, without the need to pay anything in return for them. So whilst  Mr M might not now 
Ref: DRN82404193remember discussing the accounts fee, I think its more likely than not that TSB did tell him 
about it.
Its possible that TSB didnt tell Mr M everything it should have about the Silver account. But 
for the reasons Ive explained, I havent  seen enough to make  me think that Mr M wouldnt 
still have taken the account even  if TSB had told him more  about it. I think  he chose to take it 
knowing he didnt have  to, and I think he wanted to rely on the benefits that came with it  
and I think its more  than likely hed have known hed have to pay something for those  
benefits. Mr M might not have used or made  claims on all of the benefits, but that doesnt 
mean the account was mis-sold.
Ive also gone  on to think about the way TSB has resolved Mr Ms complaint about the sale 
of the Gold account.  And Ive noted here that primarily,  Mr M says he wasnt  aware that his 
account had been changed from the Silver account  to the Gold  account.
TSB has refunded the difference in fees between the Silver account and the Gold  account,  
plus interest. So it has effectively put Mr M in the position hed have  been  in, had his account  
remained a Silver account in March 2012.
I can see Mr M continued to make use of the packaged account  benefits after his account 
was changed  to the Gold account  in particular  he made two car breakdown callouts and 
registered three mobile phones under the accounts mobile phone insurance  policy. But 
theres nothing to suggest Mr M needed the additional cover  of worldwide travel insurance,  
that the Silver  account  didnt  offer.
So I think what TSB has done is fair. Although  I agree  Mr M didnt need the additional  
benefits that the Gold account provided  for the higher monthly  fee, I do think  he still wanted 
to have a packaged account  of some description.  And looking at the way he continued to 
use the benefits, I think it wouldve been  right for him to keep the Silver account.
So TSB doesnt need to refund any of the Silver account fees from 2010,  and it doesnt need 
to refund any additional fees from the time that Mr M held the Gold  account.
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having  done so I dont think  TSB mis-sold the 
Silver account to him, and I think what its done to put things right in relation to the sale of 
the Gold account is fair. So I dont think it owes him any money.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8240419