K821x#15This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr G says Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the PPI. 
Mr G bought a Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP) alongside a mortgage in 2002. TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr G took out the PPI elements of the TMPP only.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
This policy was taken out in a meeting. I dont know exactly what  happened during 
the meeting and there isnt paperwork available from the time of sale. But based on 
what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  the optional 
nature wouldve been made clear. And I havent  seen anything  to persuade me that 
Halifax didnt follow their usual sales process  in this case. So I think its likely Halifax 
made it clear that Mr G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover. 
Mr G says he wouldnt have received any sick pay and didnt have any other  means 
of making his repayments.   The  PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 months if he was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think he 
wouldve found the policy useful. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr G paid for it. But Halifax  has already  offered to give Mr G back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr G now Ive issued my final decision  if it has not 
done so already. 
Ref: DRN87205472my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8720547