K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that a credit card account was mis-sold to him by Virgin Money plc and 
about the way that it has dealt with his account.
background
Mr L had a credit card account with a third party  that was linked with an airline.  His account  
had a credit  limit of £5,800. The relationship between the third party and the airline was 
ending and Virgin Money was offering a credit  card account that was linked with the airline. 
Mr L applied for a credit card account with Virgin  Money  in October 2018. His application 
was accepted but Virgin Money only offered him a credit limit of £1,000.  He asked for an 
increase in his credit  limit in November 2018   but that was declined. He appealed to Virgin 
Money but his appeal  wasnt upheld.  Mr L transferred £3,000 to his credit card account  in 
December 2018  so that he could  use his credit card to buy some flights  but the credit 
wasnt applied to his account until the following  day and by then the cost of the flights  had 
increased.
Mr L complained to Virgin Money and asked it to refund  the £3,000 to a business  account. It 
said that it could  only transfer the £3,000  to the bank account that was registered with it - so 
Mr L also complained  to Virgin Money  about that. He wasnt satisfied  with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Virgin  
Money had followed  its usual account opening  processes and informed  Mr L of the terms of 
his application  along the way. And he said that he couldnt interfere with Virgin Moneys  
commercial judgement about the credit limit that it offered to Mr L. And he didnt feel that 
Virgin Money had acted unreasonably or failed  to respond to Mr Ls requests about the 
transfer of the £3,000.
Mr L has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  He has provided 
another copy of his letter to Virgin Money and his 21 point complaint summary  and he 
says, in summary, that:
his complaint is about being mis-sold the credit  card account and Virgin  Moneys 
failure to meet best lending  practice  standards;
the card is heavily marketed on both Virgin  Moneys  and the airlines web-sites but 
theres no mention  that ones credit limit will be reduced;
he has incurred financial losses of over £1,635  since  being  mis-sold the card;
his claim is also based on the unnecessary distress that this has caused him to date; 
and
it took an unacceptable time for Virgin Money to return his £3,000 and it hasnt 
provided a copy of its terms and conditions which show  that the payment could only 
be made to his personal account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L applied for a Virgin Money credit card account because  of the link between that account 
and an airline.  It was his decision to apply  for the account and I consider that he was 
provided with information  about the account fee, benefits and terms and conditions of the 
Ref: DRN87891402account. So I consider that he was aware  or ought to have been  aware   of them. And Im 
not persuaded that Virgin Money  mis-sold  the credit card account to Mr L.
Virgin Money offered  him a credit  limit of £1,000. Mr L wanted a higher limit  he had a credit 
card with a third party that had been linked  with the airline and which had a credit  limit of 
£5,800. But there was no requirement for Virgin Money to offer Mr L a credit card on the 
same terms  that were offered by the third party  and there  was no requirement  for it to offer 
him the same credit limit.
Its a commercial decision for a credit  card provider to decide on the credit limit that it offers  
to a customer. This service doesnt  normally  interfere with a credit  card providers 
commercial decisions  and I see no reason  to interfere with Virgin Moneys decision about 
the credit  limit that it offered to Mr L. And Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence  to 
show that Virgin Money has failed to comply with any lending  standards or requirements.
Mr L transferred £3,000  to his credit card account  in December  2018  but the transfer  
wasnt credited to his account until the following day  which  he says meant that he wasnt  
able to buy the flights that he wanted  at the cheaper price that was available  on that day. Im 
not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Virgin  Money caused any delay in 
the transfer being credited  to Mr Ls account   or that it has acted incorrectly  in connection 
with that transfer.  So I dont  consider that its liable for any of the losses  that Mr L says hes 
suffered in connection with the transfer of £3,000 to his credit card account.
Mr L complained to Virgin Money about  his account and his credit  limit. His complaint wasnt  
upheld but Virgin Money wrote  in an e-mail  to Mr L in January  2019:
I am happy to refund  the £3,000.00 credit on your account to the bank account you 
registered with us. To do so, can you please  reply  to this email  confirming the 
Account Number and Sort Code  of that account. Please note, the credit cannot be 
refunded to another bank  account due to security  restrictions.
The transfer was made to Mr Ls account in February 2019 when he provided Virgin Money 
with details of that account. But Ive seen no evidence to show that Mr L had provided the 
required details before then. And I dont consider that it was unfair  or unreasonable  for Virgin 
Money to require that the payment be made to the bank account that Mr L had registered 
with it.
Im not persuaded that Virgin Money  has acted incorrectly  in its dealings with Mr L. And I see 
no basis on which it would be fair or reasonable for me to require  it to pay to him any 
compensation for the financial losses that hes claimed or for the distress that he says that 
hes been caused  or to take any other  action in response to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8789140