K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out PPI whilst arranging a mortgage that started  in 2002. The policy  
protected their mortgage repayments  if they were unable to work as a result of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator felt this was a complaint we should uphold. 
Based on information  Mr and Mrs M had told us about an ongoing health condition  which  
affected Mrs M, our adjudicator thought Mrs M wouldnt have been covered by the PPI for 
absence from work  due to this condition and so she felt Santander shouldnt have 
recommended the policy  to Mr and Mrs M without clearly pointing  this out. Our adjudicator 
felt that if Santander  had explained this policy limitation to Mr and Mrs M, then it was unlikely 
they wouldve  wanted the PPI and they probably wouldnt have bought the policy if theyd 
understood this at the time. Our adjudicator thought the PPI sale was unfair because 
Mr and Mrs M had lost out as theyd  been  paying  for the policy.
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said that Mr and Mrs M had 
initially told Santander when they first complained that neither of them had any pre-existing 
medical conditions  when the policy was sold to them in 2002.  So Santander asked to see 
some more information about this  which we then got.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr and Mrs M told us that they applied for the mortgage during a meeting with an advisor 
where they werent given any recommendation or advice  about taking out the insurance and 
they didnt agree to have it.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to remember exactly what  was discussed 
when they took out the policy as this was so long ago. This means that what they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. Where theres only limited 
information and disagreement about what happened I have to look at all the available 
information and decide what I think is most likely.
There was nothing mentioned in the mortgage  application form that in my view wouldve 
caused Mr and Mrs M to think that they had to have  PPI. Rather, it asked whether they 
wanted to apply for PPI, with yes or no boxes  to tick. And in order to get the PPI 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to fill in a separate application form. So I think they wouldve 
known from the paperwork that they were being given  a choice.
Ref: DRN87722492Santander says its advisor wouldve followed its usual sales process and discussed all 
aspects of the policy, including exclusions and limitations  and where he or she felt the 
policy was suitable  for customers, as in Mr and Mrs Ms case, the advisor wouldve 
recommended it to them.
The benefit  of the policy that Mr and Mrs M took out was split between  them.  Mr M had 40% 
of the benefit and Mrs M had 60%.  This suggests  to me that, despite what they recall  now, 
Mr and Mrs M probably did have a discussion with the advisor about this and they chose 
what sort of cover, if any they wanted and whether to share the policy  benefits   and if so in 
what proportions. 
And I think its likely  that Mr and Mrs M decided they wanted the PPI after speaking with the 
advisor. I say this because they initially ticked the no box for it in their mortgage  application,  
but the PPI was added  a couple  of months  after the mortgage began and  the insurer  wrote  
to them  and sent them a welcome letter and policy schedule setting out details of the cover 
theyd chosen.  
This showed that Mr and Mrs M were both covered for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. There was a contact phone number  provided if they had any queries or 
concerns about  anything  in the welcome  letter or schedule. As far as I know that letter  was 
safely delivered to them.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M queried any of the 
policy information at the time - which I think they probably wouldve done if they hadnt 
known about the PPI or they hadnt  wanted  it. 
Its completely understandable if Mr and Mrs M have now forgotten some of these details, so 
many years later. But, on balance, I think its likely  that they decided they did want  the 
benefits that PPI offered and it was added to their mortgage account at their request. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. So it needed  to sell them a policy  
that was suitable for their needs. And it needed  to sufficiently highlight the significant details 
of the policy  to Mr and Mrs M. 
The policy seems to have  been right for Mr and Mrs M based  on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. They were both eligible for the policy.  Ive taken into account what 
Mr and Mrs M told us about the sick pay they couldve relied on getting  from their employers. 
The policy wouldve paid out a benefit,  on top of their sick pay, for up to 12 months  in the 
event of a successful accident or sickness claim. As they mightve  faced extra costs if they 
were sick or disabled, I think the policy couldve  provided a useful extra benefit at a difficult 
time. 
In addition to this, the policy couldve also paid out for up to 12 months  at a time, on top of 
any redundancy payment, if Mr M and/or Mrs M lost their job unexpectedly and was out of 
work. 
And repeat claims were possible,  providing  Mr and Mrs M with long term cover.  I think  this 
wouldve given them some peace of mind, as they were borrowing a large  sum secured on 
their home.
Ref: DRN87722493Mr and Mrs M also told us they had a substantial five figure amount of savings that they 
could use to make repayments.  But I dont know if they wouldve always  had savings to rely 
on if theyd needed  to make a claim.  And the information on their mortgage application 
suggests to me that they mightve used most of this money  towards paying the balance  of 
the purchase price  of their new home.  
Alternatively, if they didnt invest most or all of their savings  to reduce their borrowing when 
they took out this mortgage, that suggests to me they mightve had other  plans for that 
money. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs M could depend on being able to continue  to keep 
any savings intact  to spend on other things or to provide financial  security for the future. 
Ive thought very carefully about whether Mrs Ms health condition made the policy  
unsuitable. I can see that her condition is serious and it has had a significant effect on Mrs 
Ms day to day life and her ability to work   particularly in more recent years.  
But Im looking at how her condition had impacted on her in 2002 when Mr and Mrs M took 
out the PPI, and how she mightve viewed it then.
Mr and Mrs M told us that in 2002 her condition didnt affect her day to day and it hadnt ever 
impacted on her being able to do her job and Mrs M had never had to take any time off work 
because of it. At that time she hadnt  needed  to see a doctor  about  her condition and she 
wasnt then taking any prescribed medication for it.
So Ive seen  nothing  to suggest that Mrs Ms condition had ever affected her ability to work 
before Mr and Mrs M arranged the PPI. This means  that, when taking out the PPI, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M wouldve had any reason to think Mrs Ms condition  was likely to affect  
her ability to work  or that she wouldve  had any reason to expect that shed be likely to find 
herself off work ill as a result of this condition for long enough  to need to claim on the policy.   
Mrs M still had the benefit of other  cover  that the policy offered. And Mr M wasnt  affected  by 
any of the usual conditions that mightve  limited  the policys benefit to him. So I dont think  
that Mrs Ms medical condition made the policy  unsuitable for Mr and Mrs M or that its likely 
having clearer information about  the circumstances when the policy  wouldnt pay out 
wouldve made any difference  to their decision to take it out. 
Santander has also given  us records showing that Mrs M later made a successful accident 
and sickness claim on the policy, so this lends support to my provisional view that the policy  
wasnt unsuitable for her. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs M when  they took out the PPI. But 
information about the cost of the policy  was included the welcome letter sent when  the 
policy was set up and Mr and Mrs M couldve queried it then if they decided  this wasnt  
something they wanted to pay for. Mr and Mrs M havent suggested that they couldnt afford 
the monthly premiums.  
And Mr and Mrs M wouldve  signed an instruction form to their bank to cover  the cost. So it 
seems they were happy at the time to pay for PPI. 
They could cancel  the policy at any time without incurring any extra cost if they no longer 
wanted to pay for this cover.   
Ref: DRN87722494Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided to buy the policy  even if theyd been better 
informed as it gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation. 
So based  on what Ive been told up to now, I dont  think this PPI was mis-sold. That means  
Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M. But Ive also 
thought about the commission Mr and Mrs M paid on their policy   and whether Santander  
treated them  unfairly. 
Santander told us that the commission for their policy when Mr and Mrs M took it out was 
less than half of what they paid for each premium.  If thats right, I dont intend to tell it to pay 
any compensation to Mr and Mrs M  but at the time it also said it was putting this aspect of 
their complaint on hold.  
Our adjudicator has asked Santander to tell us what its up to date position  now is on the 
commission aspect of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  but Santander  hasnt as yet responded to 
our enquiries. 
So I again  ask Santander to provide that information, but in its absence  Im minded to say in 
my final decision that if and insofar as the commission was above  50% then:
Santander UK Plc should pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because: 
Santander UK Plc got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because 
Santander UK Plc didnt tell Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander UK Plc should  pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Santander has confirmed   after carrying  out a full review that the commission and profit 
share did exceed 50% of the premium  at certain  points  in the policy  life and so it is willing  to 
make a payment  in the way Id suggested.  
Mr and Mrs M havent commetned further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, after taking carefully  into account  everything thats  been  said in response to 
my provisional decision, I think its fair to tell Santander  to take the following steps to put 
things right, if it hasnt  yet done that. 
Ref: DRN87722495putting things right
Santander UK Plc has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander UK Plc should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs M any extra interest  they paid because  of that. 
So Santander UK Plc should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It 
should also pay them simple interest on each payment  .The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 August 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8772249