K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains about an error that was made  by Yorkshire Building  Society  when it 
transferred her fixed interest  cash ISA to another provider and about the customer service 
that shes received.
background
Mrs D had a fixed interest  cash ISA with Yorkshire Building Society. She instructed it to 
transfer the ISA to another  provider but she received two letters from Yorkshire Building  
Society in February  2019 which referred  to a partial  transfer of the ISA. She contacted  
Yorkshire Building Society multiple  times for an explanation about  that and why her account 
had been left open with a zero balance. She then complained  to Yorkshire Building Society.  
It upheld her complaint  and said that it had incorrectly  referred to a partial transfer and that 
she hadnt received  the excellent service  that it strives to achieve.  It apologised to Mrs D, 
sent her a cheque for £100  and said that her ISA account had a zero balance and had been 
closed. 
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.  In her complaint form 
she has listed twelve issues of complaint and ten actions  that she wants taken, including  
Yorkshire Building Society being referred  to the Financial  Conduct Authority.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mrs Ds 
concern about  her remaining  funds hadnt been fully addressed.  So he recommended that 
Yorkshire Building Society should provide her with a detailed  explanation  of the fate of her 
remaining funds and why there were  no concerns  with each respective account and that it 
should pay her a further £100 for the trouble and upset caused  by its omission to deal with 
this issue earlier.
Both Mrs D and Yorkshire Building Society have  asked  for this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. Mrs D has responded in detail  and says that many of her issues  of 
complaint havent  been addressed and that Yorkshire Building Society  hasnt complied with 
the regulators principles  as she hasnt been  treated  fairly and it hasnt given her clear, fair 
and accurate responses. She has said that she would accept £500 compensation. 
Yorkshire Building Society says that an error occurred leading  to an incorrectly worded letter 
being sent so Mrs Ds complaint was upheld and redress was offered to compensate her for 
that. But it says that writing to Mrs D and listing her remaining  accounts  and the balance  in 
each wouldnt allay her concerns about how her remaining funds will be handled in the future 
by it. So its unable to agree that it should send  a further letter  to Mrs D and pay her 
additional redress for omitting to provide the reassurance shes  seeking.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. We have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses. So Im unable  to require any of them  to change the 
way that it conducts  its business. And our role isnt to punish a business  if its done 
something wrong.
Ref: DRN80098792I consider that the issues at the heart  of this complaint are reasonably clear and 
straightforward. Mrs D has identified twelve complaint issues  and ten actions that she wants 
taken. But in this decision, I will not be directly responding to each of those twelve issues  or 
directly referring to each  of those ten actions.  I intend no discourtesy to Mrs D for that but Ill 
be addressing  the issues  that I consider to be in dispute and making  a decision on what  I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs D had £9,290.37  in a fixed interest  cash ISA with Yorkshire Building Society.  She 
instructed it to transfer that ISA to another provider. It wrote to her in February 2019 and said 
that it was: sorry to hear that youve requested to transfer £9,290.37 from your ISA; and 
that it was: dealing  with the request. But the heading of the letter referred to a part-
transfer of her ISA. It wrote to her again two days later and said: I write to confirm that the 
transfer of £9,290.37 to [name  of provider] has now been completed. The transfer has left 
the account open and a balance of £0.00; but that letter  also referred to a part-transfer of 
her ISA.
I can understand that the reference to a part-transfer could have caused some uncertainty to 
Mrs D. But the letters did show the amount  that was being transferred and the second  letter  
confirmed that a zero balance remained  on the account. 
Mrs D then had multiple  conversations with Yorkshire Building Society about the transfer  and 
the service that she was receiving. She then complained to Yorkshire Building Society. It 
upheld her complaint  and said that it had incorrectly referred to a partial transfer  and that she 
hadnt received  the excellent  service  that it strives to achieve. It apologised to Mrs D, sent 
her a cheque for £100 and said that her ISA account  had a zero balance  and had been  
closed.
Mrs D wrote two letters  to Yorkshire Building Societys chief  customer officer  in February 
2019 and a letter to its chief executive in April 2019  and she referred  to her concerns about 
her other accounts. In his reply the chief executive said:  Please let me reassure once again 
that the system error has in no way affected  the funds you currently  hold with the society. 
Mrs D then complained  to this service  in May 2019.
Yorkshire Building Society clearly made an error  when it referred to a part transfer of Mrs Ds 
ISA in the two February 2019 letters. And it accepts that the customer  service that she 
received in her multiple conversations with it wasnt of the standard that she was reasonably 
entitled to expect. It sent her a cheque for £100 as an apology for that. I consider that to 
have been fair and reasonable at that time.
But in her letters to its chief  customer officer and chief executive she referred to her 
concerns about  her other  accounts with Yorkshire  Building Society. Although  it provided 
some reassurance that those accounts  werent  affected by the systems error, I consider that 
it would  be reasonable to expect it to have done more  to reassure her about those accounts. 
Mrs D says that she has about £67,000 in those accounts and I consider that it wouldve 
been appropriate for it to have provided  her with details of those accounts, including  their 
current balances, alongside  the assurance  that the accounts werent affected by its error. 
Its failure to provide  appropriate reassurance to Mrs D will have caused her further  distress  
and inconvenience.  And I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay a further £100 
to Mrs D to compensate her for that distress and inconvenience and to provide her with 
details of her remaining  accounts, including their current balances.  Im not persuaded that 
the £500 compensation claimed  by Mrs D is justified in these circumstances.
Ref: DRN80098793Nor am I persuaded  that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require Yorkshire Building Society  to provide Mrs D with: corrected documentation; a more 
detailed explanation about any of what took place; access to a financial manager; or any 
assurance about future issues.  And I dont consider  that these issues  should  be referred to 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Other  than the £100 compensation and information referred 
to above, I dont consider that Yorkshire Building  Society should be required to take any 
action in response to Mrs Ds complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ds complaint in part. And I order 
Yorkshire Building Society to:
1.Pay a further  £100 compensation to Mrs D.
2.Provide Mrs D with details of her remaining accounts  including their current  
balances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8009879