K821x#15complaint
Miss S complained that Insure The Box Limited (ITB)  unfairly pursued her for a debt under 
an old car insurance policy.
background
Miss S had a car insurance  policy with ITB which had been cancelled  in 2015. According  to 
ITB, Miss S hadnt paid the outstanding charges under it at that time. In 2019 ITB again 
pursued her for the debt and passed  it to their debt collectors. Miss S said she didnt dispute 
that she owed  at least part of it, but she was unhappy that ITB passed it to debt collectors  
and gave them her personal information. 
The investigator recommended  that her complaint be partly upheld.  He thought that ITB 
were entitled  under  her policy to use her information as they did, and that what ITB were 
charging was fair. But he thought that ITB hadnt  handled the debt collection fairly. He 
recommended that ITB waive £75 of the debt claimed, in compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused Miss S. 
ITB didnt agree and so her case has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S took out her policy in 2014 and it was cancelled  in 2015. ITB said Miss S owed an 
amount in charges for cancellation and for outstanding mileage. They  said theyd already 
pursued her for it that the time via their other  collections agent but she hadnt  paid.  So they 
tried again  in 2018/19 which was within their permitted legal time limits. They wrote to her 
direct and when she didnt pay, they passed  the debt to their debt collection agents  for 
recovery.
Miss S said she was surprised to hear from ITB or their agents out of the blue. She had 
forgotten about  the matter, but she contacted ITB querying what  she owed. She said shed 
asked ITB for a breakdown of what they said was owed back in 2015  but ITB hadnt  provided 
it, so she hadnt  paid it. But she said she was willing to pay the cancellation  charge  but not 
the mileage charge as she said ITB still hadnt  shown her a breakdown of that. She asked 
ITB to put further  collection on hold to allow this Service to consider  the complaint. 
But ITB told her that they wouldnt do that until they received  a file request from this Service,  
and they passed her debt to debt collectors only about a week  later.  Miss S felt they were  
unhelpful and obstructive  and should have given  her a grace period to allow  this Service  to 
look at her complaint.
Its clear from ITBs records that theyd told Miss S about the debt in 2015 after the policy  
was cancelled. Its also clear that ITB felt theyd already given Miss S the chance  to pay in 
2015 and she hadnt. They said that shed told them in both 2015 and 2018/9 that she didnt 
accept that she owed anything. So they concluded  that she didnt accept even the 
cancellation charges and so they should just proceed with the debt collection. 
Ref: DRN81249872They said they were  entitled to pursue a debt, and to use a debt collection agency and 
Miss Ss policy allowed them to pass her information  to their agents  for that purpose.  But 
though I agree that this is correct, wed still expect ITB to act fairly. 
ITB refused  to hold off passing the matter to their debt collectors  in 2018/9  even though 
Miss S said shed referred  her complaint to us. Once ITB received our request for their file 
they did hold off further recovery action.  But the investigator thought theyd referred  the 
matter to those debt collectors too quickly.
ITB explained to us how the charges, including the mileage charge, were calculated  under 
her policy.  The investigator  has checked  this, and I agree with him, that ITB have applied the 
various charges  according to their terms and conditions, which I can see were made clear in 
the policy, and they werent   themselves unfair.  But I havent seen anything from ITB that 
shows they explained the charges to Miss S either  in 2015  or when they reconnected with 
her in late 2018. I can see theyd emailed  her a list of the itemised charges in 2015, but I 
dont think that explains to her how theyd worked out her mileage in line with the policy  
provisions.  
I dont think it was unreasonable  for Miss S to query the charges and expect them to explain 
them. However instead of doing that, and despite having not pursued the debt for about four 
years, from their first renewed contact ITB expected her to pay it within  seven days, and 
passed the debt to their collectors  immediately  she didnt.  ITB did however agree, as a 
goodwill gesture; given the time lag in them pursuing the debt again,  to reduce the debt from 
about £167 to £130.   
Even if Miss S did owe the debt, I think that after ITB had let it lie for about four years, once 
theyd reconnected  with Miss S it was unfair  of them to expect  her to pay it within  only a few 
days. I think that they did refer the matter  to their debt collection agents  too quickly.  And I 
think that, in the context  of an old debt, it would have been fairer  for ITB to hold off further 
debt collection until theyd  explained the charges to her as shed asked, and to allow this 
Service time to look into the matter.  
In the context of the time that had passed, I dont think  that ITBs actions were reasonable 
and I think they caused  Miss S unnecessary stress.   And so I agree with the investigator  
that ITB should waive £75 of Miss Ss outstanding debt to them.  
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I part uphold this complaint and I 
require Insure The Box Limited to waive £75 from the amount of £130  Miss S owes  them.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124987