K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008. Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs R says she wasnt told about PPI and it was mis-sold to her. She applied  for the 
card on line. She was sent a credit agreement to sign afterwards. Bank of Scotland  
has sent in a copy of Mrs Rs credit card application form. On it, theres a section 
about PPI. To take out PPI, the customer wouldve had to select the box saying they 
wanted it. The box couldve  been  left blank if they didnt  want  PPI. There  is a tick in 
the box on Mrs Rs application saying that she wants PPI. She signed separately 
underneath the tick. The box to select card protection was left blank.  I think it likely 
that Mrs R wouldve understood these were  optional products and she didnt have to 
take them. So, I think it more likely  she opted  to take PPI, completing the paperwork 
and signing the form to say she wanted it. I can understand  why she may not 
remember that now, given  how much time has passed. 
Bank of Scotland didnt recommended the PPI to Mrs R so it didnt have to check  that 
it was suitable  for her. However, it still had to give her information that was clear, fair 
and not misleading,  so that she could decide  for herself if the PPI was right for her 
and she wanted  to buy it.
Mrs R said she wouldve  got benefits  through work and that she had some  share  
saves through work worth £130 per month, Based on what  Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for her needs. She 
was eligible to take out the policy and it appeared affordable.  I cant see that she was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Mrs R said she 
wouldve got six months worth of full sick pay from work and six months worth at half 
if she wasnt able to work due to accident or sickness.  The policy wouldve paid out 
on top of Mrs Rs work benefits,  allowing  her to use these to meet her other 
household expenses.  It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. I 
cant see that Mrs R other resources, including her share saves, meant that the PPI 
wasnt right for her. 
Mrs R says the information she was given about PPI wasnt clear, particularly about 
the costs and benefits. Its possible  the information  Bank of Scotland  gave Mrs R 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have  been  useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs Rs said but these  points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN83313712This means I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Bank  of Scotland doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8331371