K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited,  credited his credit card account  in error and then 
reversed the credit. This caused him to go over his limit and has consequently affected his 
credit rating.
background
Mr S has a credit card with MBNA  with a limit of £3,700  and at the time of this complaint, 
was utilising a balance transfer promotional  offer.  On 3 March  2019, Mr S called MBNA and 
made a payment of £350. On the same  day, MBNA also credited £475 to his credit card 
account in error. This caused  his account to be in credit by £120.97. 
The following  week,  Mr S called MBNA to find out his balance and he was told that his 
account was in credit. Although surprised by this, he assumed he must have cleared his 
balance and overpaid. The sum of £120.97  was transferred to Mr S at his request, returning 
his balance to zero. That same day, Mr S completed  a balance transfer of £3,535. This 
meant his balance in April was £3,545.51, inclusive of £10.51  interest, as shown on his 
statement.
On 31 May, MBNA then reversed the credit previously made in error, of £475. This, in 
addition to payments  Mr S had made to his account, resulted in the new balance of 
£3,859.42, £159.42 over his limit. MBNA sent Mr S an email on 1 June to inform  him that he 
was over his limit. He checked his online account, which confirmed this.
Mr S raised a complaint with MBNA on 4 June asking for the £475 to be returned  to his 
credit card account. MBNA sent their response  on 11 June. They said that the additional 
credit to his account  of £475 should not have taken  place,  and by way of an apology  offered 
£50. Although, they did point out that Mr S has a responsibility to review  his account, to 
ensure all transactions and payments are correct. MBNA advised they would  be able to 
amend his credit file, once he had brought his credit  card account below the agreed limit.
Unhappy, Mr S brought this matter to us. Shortly after, Mr S brought  his balance back below 
£3,700 at the end of July.
Our investigator concluded that MBNAs offer was reasonable.    
 
Mr S is unhappy with this, and feels that this error is being treated as though  it is his fault.  He 
would like the £475 credited back to his account.  This has therefore  been passed to me, to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is accepted by both parties that £475  should not have been  credited to Mr Ss credit card 
account. And when  this was reversed, I can see that this put Mr S over his agreed limit with 
MBNA. I have to consider the impact this error has had on Mr S.
As a direct result of being over the agreed limit, this has had an effect on Mr Ss credit  file. 
MBNA stated in their final response letter dated  4 June,  that once Mr S had brought his 
Ref: DRN83501752account back under his agreed limit, theyd  update  his credit file. Mr S did this in July and I 
am aware  that MBNA has now updated  his credit file to reflect this. And having reviewed 
Mr Ss statements, I can see that MBNA  did not add any over limit fees to the account.  
There was also a responsibility on Mr S to review his account.  And he did not question  with 
MBNA where the £475 payment had come  from. It would be reasonable to have expected  
Mr S to query his account being in credit, as it was a surprise to him. 
I must be fair to both sides, and this money  did not belong to Mr S. For the reasons given, I 
do not believe it would be reasonable  for the £475 to be credited back to Mr Ss credit  card 
account.
MBNA has offered  £50 by way of an apology.  I think this is a fair and reasonable outcome 
for Mr S.
my final decision
I am aware  that MBNA Limited has made an offer to pay £50. I conclude that such an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  My decision is that MBNA Limited should pay 
Mr S £50 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Chantelle Sayles
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8350175