K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a PPI policy with their mortgage in 2002. The policy was free for the 
first 12 months and covered Mr R if he couldnt  work due to disablement  or unemployment.  
Mr and Mrs R took out further  PPI policy with another mortgage in 2003. They paid a 
monthly amount  for the policy  which, again, covered Mr R if he couldnt work  due to 
disablement or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicator, so the complaint was passed  to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Regarding the policy  sold in 2002, I agree with the adjudicator that the available  evidence 
doesnt show that Mr and Mrs R paid any premiums for it. So I dont think theyre due any 
compensation for that sale.
In terms of the policy sold in 2003, and for which Mr and Mrs R did pay premiums, they say 
they were led to believe they had to have the PPI when they applied for the mortgage. In 
contradiction to that, they also argue they didnt  know the PPI had been added. Both cant  
be true although  I accept  that, so many  years after the sale, they might no longer have a 
completely accurate recollection of it. 
Ive also taken into account Mr and Mrs Rs signed mortgage application form. This indicates 
they agreed to take out cover for Mr R only for disability  and unemployment and they wanted 
a monthly benefit  of £1,200. Their  choice was confirmed in the mortgage offer and their 
signed Mortgage  Product  Confirmation  Document.  
Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs R aware that they had a choice  about  buying 
the PPI, and that they chose to take it knowing that was the case. 
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R, so it didnt have to check  if 
it was right for them,  or Mr R in particular as the person insured. But it did have to make sure 
Mr and Mrs R got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like better information would have  put them off the policy anyway.  I say that 
because, for example, Mr R wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI 
Ref: DRN88675492cover. Although  he was self-employed at time, I cant see that the policy would have made  it 
more difficult for him to claim than if he was employed. 
Mr R was a partner in a business  and says hed have received drawings for a year that he 
could have relied on in the event of his long-term  absence from work. But there  was no 
guarantee as to the level of income that would  have provided when he needed it. Ive also 
looked carefully at the income protection  insurance  Mr R held, which he says meant there 
was no need for PPI. However, I note that cover wouldnt  have paid any benefits for the first 
52 weeks of disability. The PPI, on the other hand,  paid benefits  after 30 days disability and 
for up to 12 months per claim.  And it included unemployment too. So I think the PPI broadly 
complemented Mr Rs existing insurance  rather than duplicated it. 
On the whole, I believe the PPI provided  affordable and useful protection  for Mr and Mrs R if 
something went wrong. 
Ive carefully thought  about all of Mr and Mrs Rs comments. Having taken everything into 
account, Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to them.  But 
Nationwide will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Nationwide  didnt  
tell Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwides  basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so. Nationwide  should also pay 
back to Mr and Mrs R any extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs R the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs R 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs R can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
 
Ref: DRN88675493my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2018.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8867549