K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc have  not refunded direct debit payments 
he says were made in error. 
background
M P called  NatWest in January 2019 about some direct debit payments that had been  made  
out of his account to two different organisations some years ago. He says these payments 
were made in error  and is unhappy  that NatWest have failed to refund them  under the Direct 
Debit Guarantee Scheme.
NatWest say they have  not actioned Mr Ps request because he refused to agree to their 
disclaimer that should a refund be made, and the direct debit payments be confirmed as 
genuine, NatWest  can debit the payments from his account accordingly.
Mr P says that NatWest  do not have the right to choose whether or not they refund 
payments under the Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme once an error  is reported. He says the 
disclaimer is not part of the Scheme and wants NatWest  to refund the payments without him 
having to agree to it.
Our investigator thought the disclaimer was very much in line with the Direct Debit  
Guarantee Scheme. So NatWest didnt do anything  wrong by asking Mr P to agree to it. He 
explained that the Scheme says that if an error is made in the payment of a direct debit by 
an organisation or a customers bank, the customer is entitled to a full and immediate refund. 
But it goes  on to say that if a customer receives a refund  that they are not entitled to, they 
must return the funds.  The disclaimer just asks Mr P to agree that the money can be 
returned should it turn out that hes not entitled to it. 
Mr P does not agree. He maintains that NatWest have both a fiduciary responsibility and an 
obligation under  the Direct  Debit Guarantee Scheme to refund the payments. 
So this case  has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly  about  this matter. He says that direct debit payments 
have been made from his account in error and that NatWest are obliged  to return  his money 
to him. But I do not uphold his complaint and I shall explain  my reasons.
Im afraid I dont agree that NatWest are automatically obliged  to comply with Mr Ps request 
to refund the direct debit payments. The relationship between the bank and Mr P is not one 
in which  they have an absolute duty to follow his instructions in all circumstances and there 
is no such fiduciary requirement. 
Ref: DRN83980782The purpose of the Direct Debit Guarantee Scheme is to provide  protection  to customers  for 
errors in payments by direct debit.  The Scheme  provides that if an error  is made  in the 
payment of a customers direct debit, by the organisation  or the bank/building society, the 
customer is entitled to a full and immediate  refund  of the amount paid from their 
bank/building society. The Direct  Debit Guarantee Scheme also makes  it clear that its not 
intended to be used to address contractual disputes  between a customer  and a billing 
organisation.
The wording  Ive emphasised clearly  shows  that the entitlement to a refund is not absolute.  It 
requires that an error  is made in the payment of the direct debit. And a bank  is not obliged  to 
automatically refund direct debit payments just because a customer says theres  been  an 
error. Banks are entitled to investigate  and can decide to refuse to refund any money if the 
evidence does not show that errors in payment have been made.
I appreciate that Mr P hasnt said he has a contractual dispute  with a billing organisation. But 
Id normally expect errors with a direct debit to be noticed and queried shortly  after they 
leave the account. In this case several years  have elapsed and Mr P is saying that errors 
were made in relation to direct debits with more than one organisation. 
Here NatWest asked Mr P to agree  to a disclaimer that they can debit his account  in the 
event that a refund is made  but the direct debit payments turn out not to have been made in 
error. I dont  consider  this to be unreasonable. And it is in line with the Direct Debit 
Guarantee Scheme which makes it clear  that if a customer receives a refund they are not 
entitled to, they must pay it back, which Mr P accepts. I cant  see why its a problem for Mr P 
to agree to the disclaimer since his position  is that payment errors have indeed  been made.
I know this is not the decision  that Mr P was hoping  for, but in my view NatWest have not 
acted unfairly or unreasonably. So I wont be asking them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8398078