K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained because Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax,  will not increase his 
credit limit. 
background
In September  2017, Mr P says he logged into his online banking  service with the intention of 
reducing his credit card limit from £7,850 to £5,000. 
Halifaxs records show the credit  limit was reduced to £500  in September 2017. 
In December 2017, having realised  the error, Mr P said he called Halifax  to tell them  the 
credit limit was reduced to £500,  rather than £5,000. He requested  his credit card limit be 
increased to £5,000 as he originally intended, however Halifax declined  his request. 
Mr P complained to Halifax  and said the error would not have happened if he hadnt been  
encouraged by Halifax staff to make the credit  limit change via his online banking  service. 
Mr P said he believes  there may have  been system issues with Halifax at the time which  
explains why the credit limit was changed  to the wrong amount. He also said given the credit  
limit was being reduced significantly, Halifax should have checked with him before  making  
the change. 
Halifax responded and said they had followed Mr Ps instruction to reduce the limit. They 
said Mr Ps request to increase the credit limit was declined  and they are not obliged  to give 
a specific reason why, other than he did not meet their lending criteria.
Unhappy with their response, Mr P referred his complaint to our service.  The investigator did 
not uphold the complaint as they were satisfied Halifax had not made the error when 
changing the credit limit. They  also said it was fair for Mr P to re-apply for his credit limit to 
be increased. Mr P remains unhappy so the matter has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely than not to have happened  
based on the evidence. Having done so, I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and I 
will explain  why.
Mr P says he logged into his online banking service in order  to change his credit limit. Halifax 
say they are not able to obtain  a copy of the details he input because records  are only kept 
for one year - the credit limit change was made in September  2017  and Mr P complained 
around December  2018.
I have seen Halifaxs system records and they show the credit limit was changed in 
September 2017 and Mr Ps subsequent statements reflect  this change.  Mr P also says he 
received a message confirming the credit limit had been changed. 
On balance, I think it is more likely  than not, Mr P incorrectly  changed his credit limit to £500  
rather than the £5,000  as he intended.  I say this because  Mr P has confirmed he logged  in 
online to his banking  service and changed the limit of his credit card account. Halifax  have 
Ref: DRN85817482subsequently carried out Mr Ps request  and they were right to do so. They  werent required 
to double check his request  before  making  the change. 
Equally, they werent required to confirm, by text message, the amount the limit had changed 
to. This is because the text message confirmed Mr Ps instructions had been carried out and 
the change had taken place as he requested.  Even if the amount was confirmed in the text 
message, this wouldnt have changed anything,  because the change had already taken 
place. I appreciate accidents  such  as typing errors may happen and it was not Mr Ps 
intention to reduce  his limit to £500  however  I cant  hold Halifax  responsible  for his error.
Whether Halifax chooses to lend to a consumer or increase a credit limit is a commercial 
decision and generally not something our service will interfere  with. However I can consider 
whether Halifax treated  Mr P fairly when considering his request for an increase to his credit 
limit.
In December 2017, Mr P contacted Halifax and requested the credit limit be increased  to 
£5,000 as he originally intended. When Halifax receive such  a request, I would expect them  
to carry out checks to consider whether the increased borrowing will be affordable to the 
customer. The types of checks may include the customers  income and expenditure, how 
they have handled their finances, their ability to make  repayments and their credit history.  
As a lender,  it was reasonable for Halifax to carry out such  checks when considering  Mr Ps 
request. I am satisfied  they have done so in this case  and Mr P did not meet  the lending 
criteria. Mr P has also said that he is struggling financially so I can see why Halifax  might not 
have been prepared to lend him more money as this might make Mr Ps situation  worse. So I 
cant say Halifax has done anything wrong  and I believe it was fair for them to decline Mr Ps 
request for his credit  limit to be increased
Lastly, I am aware that when raising  the complaint to Halifax and to our service Mr P says 
that he is experiencing financial  difficulty. I appreciate this is a difficult and distressing time 
and I would encourage Mr P to work with Halifax so they can look at what  they may be able 
to do to help. I would also remind Halifax that they should continue  to treat Mr P positively 
and sympathetically  during this time of his financial difficulty.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85817483
Ref: DRN8581748