K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1999. Mr P paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ps PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
Mr Ps mortgage application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what  it was for and 
only recommended  that he thought about  it. And it said they could give him more details if 
hed like. Below was a box Mr P could sign if he wanted PPI, or which  could be left blank if 
he didnt want it. Mr P signed to buy the policy, and signed the form to confirm  his choices. 
He also submitted an application  specifically  for PPI, which  was separate  to the application 
for the mortgage  itself. The form recorded  what benefit he wanted, what  it would cost,  and 
that hed checked he was eligible. Mr P signed the application for PPI. He was also given a 
mortgage quotation, which also set out the cost of the PPI separately to the cost of the 
mortgage, rather than as something that was necessarily included.
Mr P said he felt pressured to buy PPI. Specifically,  he pointed  to the wording about his 
home being at risk if he didnt make his mortgage  payments, and about  him being strongly 
advised to take PPI. But his home  really  was at serious risk if he didnt keep up his payments 
 thats the nature of a mortgage, and this is something I wouldve expected Halifax to tell 
him regardless of whether  they were selling  PPI or not. And as Ill go on to explain,  it looks 
like PPI was a good idea for him, so I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to recommend he 
took it. At the end of the day, this was only a recommendation, strong or otherwise  it 
wasnt a requirement  in any way and Mr P was free to decline the recommendation.
Overall, I think that Halifax made  Mr P aware  he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
he chose to take it at the time.  And I dont think that he was put under unfair pressure to buy 
the policy.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P, so they had to check  it was right for him. And based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  it was. For example, he wasnt  
affected by any of the policys key exclusions or limitations. And while  Mr P did have some 
significant outgoings, given his income I cant see that the PPI wouldve been unaffordable.
Ref: DRN80981352Mr P did have some sick pay, but this only covered him for six months, whereas the PPI 
covered him for up to two years in any one claim. Mr Ps employer offered a further sickness  
benefit. But assuming Mr P was eligible for it, this still only covered his basic salary  not 
bonuses and so on  and even then,  only a proportion  of that salary. So that wouldve been  
a very significant reduction in income. And so the PPI offered him more comprehensive 
protection. It also covered him for much  longer  than his redundancy pay wouldve lasted,  
since hed need  that pay out for all of his living  costs. Lastly,  I understand Mr P had some 
savings and assets, though from his mortgage application it doesnt look like they wouldve 
covered him for long after his deposit  was paid. Even  so, the mortgage was a significant 
amount and a long-term commitment, and theres no guarantee he wouldve had sufficient 
savings if he fell on difficult times somewhere in the years down the line. And the PPI meant 
he could protect his savings and use them for other things.
Its worth  bearing in mind  that the mortgage was Mr Ps sole responsibility, and was set up to 
be repaid over a significant period. If, at any point in that time,  Mr P fell behind on his 
payments, then he really  did risk losing his home. So I think  the PPI couldve really  been 
useful for him in protecting his home and giving some peace  of mind.
Halifax set out the cost of the policy on both the PPI application and mortgage quotation, so 
I think Mr P wouldve  understood  how much  hed need to pay for it if he took it out. Indeed, 
his policy  actually ended up costing less than the quoted amount.
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  But 
as I said above,  Mr P doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of those things. 
my final decision
While I know this will disappoint Mr P, I do not uphold this complaint,  for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8098135