K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that the early repayment  charge (ERC) on his mortgage  is not a reasonable 
pre-estimate of the loss to Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC (Tesco).
background
Mr J had a mortgage  with Tesco. In September 2014, Mr J took out a new interest rate 
product, 2.99% fixed for five years.  If the mortgage  was repaid during the fixed  rate period, it 
had an ERC.  The ERC  was 5% of the outstanding  balance in the first year,  falling over time 
to 2% of the outstanding balance in the final year.
The interest rate product was due to end in August 2019. Mr J paid back his mortgage  in 
April 2019. Tesco charged an ERC  of 2% of the outstanding balance. This was around 
£7,200.
Mr J complains that the ERC was not a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs to Tesco of the 
mortgage being redeemed. He says it wasnt in line with the relevant rules  set by the 
regulator. Hes completed his own calculations and reached a different  figure  to the one 
charged by Tesco.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Js complaint, so it comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J accepts that the ERC was clearly laid out in the mortgage  offer,  in line with the way the 
regulator expects.  He understands and accepts that there are costs to a lender on early 
repayment of a mortgage. 
Mr J also understands that the regulations require that the ERC be a reasonable pre-
estimate of those costs.  And those costs  may be calculated across  a tranche of mortgages  
rather than individually.  This means  they might be different  to the actual costs  Tesco  
incurred when Mr J paid back his own mortgage early. What  Mr J disputes  is that Tescos  
calculations are a reasonable pre-estimate of its costs. Hes done his own calculations,  
which he says shows that it far exceeds any losses Tesco could have  incurred. 
The regulations specifically state that a lender may choose the method it employs for 
calculating early repayment charges. Tescos method is different to Mr Js  and I think  
thats reasonable and in line with the regulations. Mr J questions whether Tescos  
calculations are based only on a group of mortgages of similar type; Im satisfied they are. 
Mr Js method also focusses (in very simple terms)  on the losses of interest  income from 
early redemption compared to potential re-investment income. While Tescos calculations 
include this element (approached in a way specific to its business model),  they also include 
other elements, including the overheads Tesco would normally expect  to recover  during the 
fixed rate period. 
Mr J also does not have  access to these costs, or the detailed methodology Tesco has used 
to calculate its ERC to compare it to his own method.  Tesco has given us a detailed  
Ref: DRN87835652explanation, but our rules allow us to receive  information and evidence in confidence in 
appropriate circumstances.  Im satisfied that its appropriate to do so in this case, since 
Tescos underlying costs  and calculations are commercially sensitive. Ive said that, in 
summary, Tesco bases  its ERC  calculations  on a combination of unrecovered overheads  
and lost interest income, allowing  for replacement income from reinvesting the repaid funds. 
I think its calculated the ERC it charged Mr J fairly.
I understand Mr Js frustration, and I understand why  based on his assumptions and 
calculations  he doesnt think the ERC Tesco has charged is fair. But Ive carefully 
considered what  both he and Tesco have to say about this, and I am satisfied that Tescos 
calculations are a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss to Tesco where  a borrower  repays 
their mortgage before  the end of their fixed rate.
For these reasons, I dont  uphold Mr Js complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8783565