K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) deemed her car to be a total loss when 
she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the settlement it 
offered for the loss of her car.
background
Mrs Hs car was damaged  in an accident and UKI took it to its approved repairers.  An 
assessment found  that the cars repairs were estimated to be more than 60% of the cars 
pre-accident value. UKI offered Mrs H £1,210  in settlement for the total loss of her car. But 
Mrs H wanted to keep  her car and so UKI returned  it and paid Mrs H £727. It said this was 
the cars  value less the policy excess and the salvage vale,  £133.  
UKI incorrectly cancelled  Mrs Hs policy and it paid her £100  compensation for this. It also 
compensated her for the service provided by the delivery driver. But Mrs H wanted an 
increased offer for her car. She was unhappy  with how this had been  calculated and that the 
engineer had called her at work.  She said shed felt pressurised  into making a decision 
about how to proceed.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She thought UKI had 
assessed the repairs needed  to Mrs Hs car correctly following standard  industry practice. 
She thought  that as the repair  costs were greater than 60% of the cars value, then UKI was 
entitled to consider the car to be beyond economical repair. And she thought UKIs 
settlement offer had been correctly made  according to our approach  and fairly considered 
the cars  pre-accident damage. The adjudicator also thought UKIs compensation for service  
issues was fair and reasonable. She didnt think it unusual for engineers  to call consumers to 
discuss offers. This call recording wasnt available. 
Mrs H replied that she wanted an ombudsmans final decision,  so her complaint  has been 
passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs car was damaged  following a low speed  collision in a car park. There was damage 
to the rear of the car. I can understand that Mrs H thought this would  be repaired and her car 
returned to her after shed paid the policy excess.  
But this wasnt the case. The required repairs to Mrs Hs car were  assessed to be sufficient 
to make the car beyond economical  repair. It was deemed a total loss and UKI offered Mrs H 
a settlement which she said wasnt enough  to replace it like for like. The engineer had called 
Mrs H at work and she felt pressured into making  a decision. And she later found that UKI 
had made  a deduction for pre-existing damage that she thought was unfair. 
Mrs H wanted a full explanation and justification with concrete evidence  for UKIs decisions. 
But its not my role to provide evidence. My role is to provide an impartial  and independent  
review of how UKI has responded to Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN80806252Mrs H has provided detailed  arguments to support her complaint. Ive considered these but 
Ive concentrated  on what I think are her key concerns in UKIs  handling  of the claim:  the 
engineers assessment, the valuation, the pre-accident damage, and the level of service 
provided.  
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  I can see that UKI explains how 
it deals with damage on page  2 of Mrs Hs policy booklet:
How much will you pay if my car is damaged?
If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing  your vehicle up 
to its UK market value.
This is the current value  of the vehicle at the time of the claim  and It may be 
different to the amount  you paid or any amounts we spoke about when you insured 
your vehicle with us.
Mrs H was unhappy with how UKI assessed the repairs  needed to her car. But I think UKI 
followed the standard industry practice  for this. I can see that a qualified  engineer  completed  
a report on her car that estimated  the repairs costs based on parts and labour. So I cant say 
that this was unfair or unreasonable. 
Mrs H was unhappy with the valuation UKI placed on her car. Our adjudicator thought  UKIs 
valuation was fair and reasonable, so Ive checked how she came to this conclusion. Our 
approach to car valuations is that we dont provide valuations for cars but seek  to assess  
whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
The adjudicator looked for valuations of Mrs Hs car in the motor-trade guides we use. I can 
see that this took into account the make, model, age, mileage and options. It was based  on a 
car in good  condition. So I think this was done  correctly.
The adjudicator also considered the deduction for pre-existing damage.  Mrs H was unhappy 
with how this had been calculated. She thought that if shed been warned, a polish would 
have improved the cars condition. But I think its fair for UKI to assess the car as it was 
presented. Ive seen  an engineers report that the repairs of stone chips and scuffs would 
cost £1,400. So, following our approach, UKI was entitled to make a deduction of half this 
amount from the cars pre-accident market value.  
The result was that UKIs offer in settlement for the total loss of Mrs Hs car was higher than 
the average of the valuations the adjudicator  found. UKI had decided  to base its valuation on 
a car in fair condition instead of making the deduction for pre-existing damage. This 
benefited Mrs H. 
So I think UKIs offer for the pre-accident value Mrs Hs was made correctly according to our 
approach. So I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require UKI to increase 
this.  
Ref: DRN80806253Mrs H wanted to retain her car. From the call recordings Ive heard and the correspondence  
between UKI and Mrs H, I think her options were reasonably explained. I think UKIs  
deduction from the settlement for the cars salvage was fair and reasonable as it was 
assessed by a qualified engineer. 
Mrs H was unhappy with UKIs level of service throughout the claim. I can see that UKI paid 
Mrs H £100 compensation as the approved garages driver came without a torch.  And it paid 
her £100  compensation for wrongly  cancelling her policy as it hadnt noted  that Mrs H had 
had her cars  MOT done. I think that was fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id 
award in similar circumstances. 
Mrs H said she had felt pressurised by UKIs engineer into making  a decision on what  to do 
with the car. She said it wanted the courtesy car returned. UKI hasnt been able to provide 
us with a recording  of this call. Mrs H said she had this recorded but I cant  see that shes 
provided it to us. So Ill consider what Mrs H has told us. 
I can understand that Mrs H felt that she needed time to consider her options. But I dont 
think its unusual for engineers to call consumers to discuss the valuation of their car. I also 
think it was reasonable  for UKI to request the courtesy car be returned after the car was 
deemed a total loss. This was only provided during repairs.  
Ive heard Mrs Hs other calls with UKI and I think her options were  explained. UKI accepted  
that Mrs H wanted to dispute the valuation and it had a second assessment made by a 
different engineer in a different team. I think thats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, although  Mrs H may have felt pressured,  I dont think this caused  her any loss. 
Mrs H wanted me to review how the adjudicator handled her case. But thats not my role. I 
can see that the adjudicator has already directed  Mrs H to a link explaining how to make 
complaints about  our service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8080625