K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that the contractors Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) 
appointed may be overcharging LV for the works  it was asked to complete under his home 
insurance policy. 
background
In November 2017, Mr R made a claim under  his home insurance  policy  following a fire in 
his kitchen. LV appointed a loss adjuster  to handle the claim on its behalf. The loss adjuster 
attended the property with a contractor (C1) who carried out mitigation  measures  which 
included cleaning and on-site storage of some  contents. Mr R had concerns with the works 
this company carried out. Another contractor (C2) attended the property to provide an 
estimate for the costs to complete the building works. 
Mr R was unhappy with the estimate  of the costs completed by C2. He says he could obtain 
cheaper estimates locally and thought LVs contractors were  overcharging  for the work that 
needed to be done. Mr R obtained  two estimates  from different companies  (C3 & C4).  
LV looked  at these estimates. And it said the two estimates were not comparable as different 
items had been  included  within each  estimate. Mr R didnt agree to meet  with LV to discuss 
these differences.  Mr R looked to obtain a third estimate from another company (C5)  hed 
used in the past as it was offering a more like for like match  to his existing kitchen units. 
When LV contacted the company to chase the estimate on Mr Rs behalf,  it was informed 
that the work  would  be completed  if a cash settlement was agreed. 
LV offered  a cash settlement amount of £11,114.40 after deducting the £100 policy  excess. 
LV says it already covered the cost of Mr R replacing the hob. So, it didnt  include  this in the 
settlement figure above. Mr R was unhappy with this offer,  and wanted to obtain further 
estimates. LV offered  to introduce another contractor (C6) which  Mr R agreed to but he 
was not happy with the estimate. LV says its happy  with the estimates its contractors had 
provided. 
Mr R brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked  into the complaint and he 
thought LVs cash settlement was fair and reasonable. He also explained that any concerns 
about LV being overcharged by its contractors would be a dispute between  them.  He said 
the concerns with C1 were addressed by LV and it didnt need to do any more. 
Mr R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. He had concerns 
that a high cash settlement amount would result in his insurance premium increasing. Mr R 
subsequently accepted  the cash settlement. So the complaint  has been passed  to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Rs complaint.  I understand this will come as a disappointment to Mr R but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
LVs policy terms  set out how a claim is settled.  It says it can settle  a claim by repairing, 
replacing, or paying  cash to put right the damage. LV offered Mr R a cash settlement of 
Ref: DRN88136392£11,114.40 after deducting £100 excess. Mr R wanted a cash  settlement so he could  use his 
own contractors. And he has accepted  the cash settlement offered. But as he was 
concerned about  the settlement amount throughout his complaint to us, Ive considered 
whether the offer by LV was fair and reasonable. 
LV says it calculated Mr Rs cash settlement on the estimates  it received  from C2 and C5. It 
says it relied on these quotes  as C2s estimate covered the costs of the building  works that 
needed completing and C5s estimate offered a 95% match  in kitchen units and accepted to 
complete the work on a cash settlement basis. So, using these estimates together  covered  
all of the work Mr Rs property required.
Mr R provided  estimates from C3 and C4 so Ive considered these  estimates. LV says these 
estimates were not comparable as C3 included tiling which  C4 did not. And C4 didnt include 
the tiling but appliances which C3 did not. LV says it requested  to meet  with Mr R to discuss 
these estimates but Mr R did not agree  to meet. Given these discrepancies and that these 
estimates didnt cover  all of the necessary  work  I think it was reasonable of LV to not refer to 
these when calculating  the cash settlement. And for it to rely on estimates that did accurately 
reflect the work needed. 
LV says C6 couldnt offer units that would match the undamaged units.  So, it quoted the full 
cost of replacing the whole kitchen. But, the policy doesnt provide cover for all of the 
undamaged kitchen units to be replaced.  LV says itd only contribute 50% of the costs 
towards replacing the remaining  undamaged  units.  This is in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Rs policy. For this reason, I consider  it fair of LV to not revise its cash 
settlement in light of C6s estimate.  
Taking into consideration all of the estimates from the different companies, I think LVs 
approach when calculating the cash settlement was fair and reasonable. I say this because  it 
offered Mr R the best opportunity to be put back in the position he wouldve been in had the 
fire not occurred - by basing  its cash settlement on C2 and C5s estimates.  And I havent 
seen anything which says the calculation by LV was incorrect, or that Mr R cant  get the work 
done for these  costs.  So I dont think LV needs  to do any more.   
Mr R has had concerns about  LVs contractors overcharging it. I agree with our investigator,  
any concerns about LV being  overcharged  by its contractors would be a dispute  between 
them. In this case, LV says its rates were agreed with its suppliers and the loss adjuster 
handling the claim wouldve ensured the charges and prices  were correct.  
I realise that Mr R has concerns about the possibility of his insurance  premium increasing as 
a result of the cash settlement amount which he says is too high.  When  claiming on an 
insurance policy it is reasonable  to expect this to have  some impact on the premium.  While 
I understand Mr Rs concern that this remains a possibility,  it hasnt  happened.  So Im unable  
to direct LV on something which hasnt happened.
Mr R has raised  concerns about some of the work  C1 carried out when cleaning  and 
providing on-site storage. These included blocked  drains, damage to his door, curtains  not 
returned to an acceptable standard, towels smelling  of oil, removing a pen, heater  damage 
and several items missing  from storage. LV has confirmed that these issues  have been 
resolved as items have been returned; costs covered  and some  work carried out as a 
gesture of goodwill. Mr R hasnt raised  any further concerns about these issues, so I dont 
think LV needs  to do any more. 
Ref: DRN88136393Mr R says C1 had placed a storage heater next to a gas lamp which couldve caused him 
harm. My understanding  is that thankfully  no harm has been caused  so while I understand 
Mr R had concerns about it possibly occurring, this hasnt happened. So I dont think LV 
need to do any more.       
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Asia Khanam
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8813639