K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that even though  they called Legal & General Insurance Limited 
before their renewal date to check they had adequate cover,  they were left underinsured. 
They are also unhappy with the way their claim was handled by Legal & General Insurance  
Limited. However, its Mrs H who has been  in correspondence with us. So, for ease of 
reading I will refer to Mrs H in my decision.
background
Mr and Mrs H have buildings and contents  insurance with Legal and General Insurance  
Limited (L&G). Mrs H received her annual buildings and contents insurance renewal in 2019.  
She said the renewal  was a single sheet which displayed the renewal date and price and 
that there  was no policy booklet attached. Mrs H had a new garage built on her property 
during the previous 12 months. The garage was detached and away  from the main  house. 
As the home  insurance was up for renewal and Mrs H hadnt  told L&G about the new garage 
already, she called L&G about  a week before  the renewal date. Mrs H wanted  to know if her 
current policy was sufficient or if she needed an alternative policy  in light of the new garage. 
She explained to L&G that she was calling to ensure the new garage was covered by the 
policy and to check if the existing policy provided  sufficient  buildings  and contents cover. 
Mrs H was informed that as the new garage, like her existing outbuildings was within the 
boundary of her address,  it was covered  under her buildings insurance. 
Mrs H asked about her contents  cover. Mrs H was told that her contents  cover was over 
£70,000. Mrs H believed  that this was enough to cover the contents  of her home, new 
garage and other outbuildings. Around a day before her renewal  date Mrs H phoned L&Gs  
automated phone line and renewed  her policy. She tried to log in to access her policy 
documents but was unable to do so. Around  two days  after her renewal date Mrs H phoned  
L&G and explained  that she was unable to access her documents online. She was told by 
L&G that some other customers were  experiencing similar issues. L&G agreed to send  the 
policy documents to Mrs H in the post. 
A few days  later  Sunday - Mrs H was burgled. Several expensive  items were stolen from 
her new garage.  Mrs H informed the police and received  a crime reference number. Mrs H 
phoned L&G and informed them that she had been burgled. She was told that she couldnt 
speak to anyone  in L&G about her claim for another two days  and would  need  to book a slot 
between 5pm and 9pm on Tuesday. Mrs H booked a slot for Tuesday  evening.
The next day  Monday  - Mrs H called L&G again  as she didnt want to wait until Tuesday 
evening to speak  to someone. She provided  L&G with the crime reference number. 
However, L&G didnt  recognise the crime number so Mrs H had to call the police again for 
clarification. Mrs H called  L&G again  the following day  Tuesday - and provided them with 
the updated crime reference number.  Mrs H was told that her contents cover  for all 
outbuildings was limited  to £1,000 in total. 
L&G explained that many  of the expensive items that had been stolen form Mrs Hs new 
garage during  the burglary werent  included under her policy.  And that Mrs H would have 
had to specify the items individually and as she hadnt, they werent covered. Mrs H was 
shocked and disappointed as this meant  around £5,000 of the items stolen were not 
covered. 
Ref: DRN83175632Mrs H stated that she was expecting a call back from L&G Tuesday evening,  but didnt 
receive any. Mrs H called L&G again the following day  Wednesday   however, the lines 
were busy,  so Mrs H requested a call back. When L&G called Mrs H that afternoon it wasnt  
a convenient time,  so L&G agreed  to call back between 5.30pm and 8.30pm. Mrs H said that 
L&G didnt call her back. However, L&G said that they did call back  and left a voicemail.  
The next day  Thursday - Mrs H spoke to a team leader at L&G. She complained about the 
poor service that she had received, and that L&G had not given her the correct information  
when she called them before her renewal  date to ensure  that she had enough  contents  
cover in place for the new garage. Mrs H suggested that L&G should listen to the call. 
Mrs H informed L&G that the garage door lock had been drilled out during  the burglary and 
still wasnt secure. The police had informed her that the burglars could return  to steal other 
items of value. Mrs H said that L&G agreed that someone would be out within four hours. 
However, no locksmith attended  or contacted Mrs H. 
The next day  Friday  Mrs H called the locksmith herself, they informed her that they had 
only been asked  by L&G to attend her address and complete a survey. And would not attend 
until the following  Wednesday, which would be 10 days after the burglary. Mrs H wasnt 
happy with this, so she called L&G again.  This time L&G arranged for the locksmith to attend 
that same  day and a new lock was fitted to the garage door. The garage  door has since  
been replaced. 
L&G contacted Mrs H about her complaints. They offered Mrs H £50 for the claims handling 
service issues  she experienced.  However, L&G didnt  accept that it was their fault that Mrs H 
wasnt sufficiently insured for the contents  of her new garage. L&G offered Mrs H £100 as 
compensation for her loss of expectation. 
Mrs H wasnt happy with L&Gs offer, so she brought a complaint to our service.  One of our 
investigators looked into Mrs Hs complaint. The investigator thought that L&G should  
provide Mrs H with details of other L&G policies that were  being offered at the time Mrs H 
renewed her policy. If Mrs H selects one of these policies, then L&G should charge Mrs H 
the difference between the new policy premium  and the amount she paid for her current  
policy. And subsequently if Mrs H does take up one of the other policies offered by L&G, 
then L&G should  carry out a further  review of Mrs Hs claim against the new selected  policy.  
L&G said that its that policyholders responsibility  to ensure that they have sufficient cover in 
place. And that Mrs H hadnt specifically asked about the contents cover  for her garage.  L&G 
also stated that the limits  on Mrs Hs contents cover have been  in place since Mrs Hs policy 
began a few years ago. So, Mrs H should have  been aware of the limits. 
Mrs H agreed  with the investigators view, but as L&G didnt agree, the matter was passed to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the evidence  submitted and the accounts of both parties, Ive decided to uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN83175633Ive listened to the call Mrs H made to L&G around  a week before her policy  renewal date. 
Its clear from the call that when Mrs H called to update L&G that she had built a new 
detached garage within the boundary of her property, she wanted to ensure that there was 
sufficient buildings  and contents cover in place to cover her house, new garage and other 
outbuildings. Mrs H wanted to be clear on what she was insured for and at the end of the call 
she felt that she had over £70,000 contents  insurance covering her house, new garage and 
other outbuildings. 
L&G themselves in their own case notes  state; The policyholder asks,  whats  the contents 
that Ive got, the handler  then provides the policyholder with the contents sum insured  (over 
£70,000). It looks like the call was ambiguous, the handler was not clear  enough  within the 
call, the handler  could  have been  a bit more specific, so the policyholder left the call 
assuming certain  cover  was in place. 
I agree  with L&G here. Mrs H called  L&G as she wanted the peace of mind  of knowing that 
she had sufficient cover in place. Mr H said that in her mind  her insurers,  L&G were  the 
experts, so she called them. L&G havent done what I would  have expected them to do 
during the call. As Mrs H has specifically called to add the new garage to her policy. L&G 
should have told Mrs H that the £70,000  contents cover didnt relate to the garage.  This 
would have allowed  Mrs H to choose a better policy with L&G or to seek insurance form 
another provider.  
L&G said that Mrs H didnt specifically  ask about the contents of the garage cover. Whilst 
this is true, she did ask about her contents cover specifically. Its also true that Mrs H made  
the call to L&G to ensure  the new garage  was covered by the policy.  She had received a 
renewal and wanted to know if she should  remain with her current  policy or change. 
Unfortunately, having spoken to L&G, Mrs H decided to remain with the same policy as she 
believed  after speaking  to L&G  that her current policy provided sufficient cover. I think 
L&G should  have told Mrs H that she only had £1,000 contents cover  on her new garage.  
Instead L&G told Mrs H that she had over £70,000 contents cover. As L&G have said 
themselves, this left Mrs H assuming that certain cover was in place. 
L&G said that Mrs H has had the same cover  for a few years. And therefore,  should have 
been aware of the limits  in her cover. I dont think this is relevant in this case.  Mr H phoned 
L&G with new information,  namely  shed had a detached garage  built and wanted to check  
she was sufficiently insured. During  the call its clear that Mrs H isnt aware  of the current 
cover or limits in place, thats  why she called L&G. L&G didnt specify  Mr Hs contents  cover  
limits and they didnt  offer her an alternative policy that may have been  more suited to her 
needs. 
L&G told Mrs H that she had in excess of £70,000 in contents cover. However, this was   
Mrs Hs overall  contents limit. L&G didnt provide her with any specific  limits within  that 
overall limit. Given that Mrs H had called  up to specifically tell L&G that shed had a new 
detached garage built in the previous 12 months. I think  it would have been reasonable to 
expect L&G to point  out the specific limit relating to the new garage. Im satisfied by Mrs Hs 
actions that she wouldve  reconsidered her policy if the limits  had been  made  clear  to her. 
Ref: DRN83175634L&G said that its Mrs Hs responsibility  to ensure that the policy  met her needs. I agree with 
L&G here. However, Mrs H did take reasonable action to ensure that she had a policy  that 
met her needs. Mrs H hasnt been  reckless or remiss. She took the time to call L&G for 
advice, she considered them the experts. Mrs H trusted the information that she was 
provided by L&G. Although  the advice provided  by L&G wasnt incorrect,  it was ambiguous 
and left Mrs H believing that she had sufficient cover  in place. L&G provided  clear detail in 
relation to Mrs Hs buildings cover but not her contents. 
L&G said that Mrs H had their cheapest  policy for a number of years and should have been 
aware of the limits.  Again,  I dont see the relevance of this here.  Mrs H never expressed any 
allegiance to this particular policy or any resistance  to an alternative policy. Mrs H simply 
wanted a policy to suit her current needs. Having spoken to L&G she believed that her 
current policy suited her needs. L&G are right that Mrs H was with them  for a few years  and 
that Mrs Hs policy hasnt  changed in that time.  Mrs H didnt have a copy  of the policy,  she 
also had no idea whether the policy had changed in that time or not and therefore called 
L&G to get the information.  She had tried to view her policy online and was unable  to do so. 
She had in fact called L&G and requested that they post her a copy  of her policy documents.  
Unfortunately, she was burgled  before  the policy documents arrived. 
L&G said that they did send Mrs H a copy of her policy documents with her renewal 
reminder. However, Mrs H says that she didnt receive a copy  of her policy  documents  and 
only received a single sheet policy renewal  reminder. The fact that Mrs H went  to the trouble 
of trying to view her policy documents online and calling L&G to post her a copy,  suggest  
that its more likely than not that Mrs H didnt have a copy of her policy  documents.  
In response to the investigators view, L&G said that our position  meant  that the insured 
would effectively have  no responsibility to read their policy  documents.  I dont agree. In this 
case Mrs H called L&G as she didnt have a copy of her policy  documents  and she wanted 
L&G to provide her with information, to allow her to make an informed choice. The purpose 
of Mrs Hs call was to ensure that the garage  and contents had sufficient cover.  It was L&G 
who highlighted the overall sum insured. 
L&G do have policies  which provide customers with increased levels  of contents  cover.  They 
also allow  customers to insure  individual items  of high value,  provided  they are specifically 
named in the home insurance policy. Unfortunately, the call handlers advice led Mrs H to 
believe that she didnt  need to look at other  policies as her current  policy  appeared sufficient.
I agree  with our investigator. I think that L&G should  provide  Mrs H with details of other  L&G 
home insurance policies,  that were available to Mrs H when she called for advice. If Mrs H 
takes up one of these policies, then Mrs H should pay the difference between the policys  
premiums. Then L&G should reassess  Mrs Hs claim against the new policy.  
When a customer calls their insurer for assistance with a claim, I would expect the insurer  to 
deal with the claim fairly and promptly. L&G have offered Mrs H £150 made up of £50 for the 
quality of the claims handling and £100 for the loss of expectation.  Its clear  to me from 
reading the case notes  and from speaking to Mrs H, that the claims handling has not been 
what we would have  expected and caused  her distress and inconvenience. Its also clear 
that  despite  her best efforts  Mrs H was underinsured  and that this caused  her shock and 
disappointment. I think that £150 is an appropriate amount to compensate  Mrs H for the 
distress and inconvenience experienced as a result  of poor claims handling  and loss of 
expectation experienced to date. 
Ref: DRN83175635my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
I direct  Legal  & General  Insurance  Limited to;
Provide Mr and Mrs H with details of all other home insurance buildings and contents 
policies that were being offered  by Legal & General Insurance Limited  at the time  
Mrs H called Legal and General Insurance  Limited for advice. 
If Mr and Mrs H select  an alternative  policy, then Legal & General Insurance Limited  
may request  that Mr and Mrs H pay any difference between  their current  policy  
premium and the policy premium of the new policy they have selected. 
On receipt of any increased premium, Legal & General Insurance  Limited must 
reassess Mr and Mrs Hs claim under the alternative policy  selected  by Mr and Mrs H 
subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, any excess  and any settlement 
already paid. 
Pay Mr and Mrs H £150 compensation for their material distress and inconvenience  if 
it hasnt already done so. 
Legal & General Insurance Limited  must  pay the compensation within 28 days from when we 
tell it Mr and Mrs H accepts my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it must also pay 
interest at 8% simple* a year on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment.
*If Legal  & General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue and 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs H how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs H a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so 
they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8317563