K822xcomplaint
Miss U has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) declined a claim she 
made under her home insurance policy.
background 
In January 2018 Miss U was informed that a boundary  wall and fence  had collapsed  at her 
property. She got in touch with RSA to make a claim and it appointed a contractor, who Ill 
call B, to inspect the damage. B told Miss U there was no evidence of storm damage and 
there was no cover  under the policy  for her claim. It said the wall had been  built too high 
and the damage  had happened because of a natural breakdown of materials  and poor 
workmanship.
Miss U was unhappy with RSAs decision  and complained. She said the wall was already 
standing when she bought the house  around  20 years  earlier  and had continued to do so 
until it collapsed during bad weather. So, she disagreed with Bs view.  She thought the wall 
had stood for a considerable  amount of time without prior problems. And she said the wall 
didnt require Building Control or Planning Permission approval, so she didnt think  it was fair 
to say the wall was too high. In her view the wall collapsed  during bad weather and would  
still be standing were  it not for the bad weather. So, she thought her claim should be 
covered.
In its final response to the complaint,  RSA said its decision to decline the claim was correct. 
It said there were no storm conditions in the area of Miss Us home on the day the damage 
occurred, and the policy didnt cover wear  and tear. RSA later told Miss U that Storm David  
just registered  storm conditions in your area.
Miss U referred her complaint to this service and our investigator considered it. She thought  
there had been  storm conditions  shortly  before the damage was discovered. But she didnt 
think the storm was the main cause of the damage  she thought  the wall had suffered from 
wear and tear. Because of that she thought it was fair for RSA to decline the claim. A second 
investigator considered  the complaint and reached a similar view.
Miss U said there were two separate parts of the wall - a taller  concrete section  and a 
smaller brick  section,  both of which had collapsed along with the fence. She provided  photos  
of a similar, undamaged  section  of brick  wall and said this showed  it wasnt suffering from 
wear and tear. She questioned how the wall had stood for so long if there had been a 
problem with the way it was designed  or built many  years ago.
As Miss U didnt agree its been passed  to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 January 2020. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it.
The policy covers damage  to the building as a result  of storm. When  this service  looks  at a 
complaint about  a storm claim, theres  three  main  points  we usually take into account:
1. do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Ref: DRN820874322. is the damage  claimed for consistent  with damage a storm typically causes? and 
3. were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  yes to all three questions that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim.  In this case the answer  is yes to all three, so Im asking RSA to deal with the 
claim.
For the first question,  the answer  is yes. Although RSA initially told Miss U there were no 
storm conditions near her property around  the time of the damage,  it later accepted there 
were. Miss U said the damage  was discovered on 23 January by her brother, who lives at 
the property. The records dont show storm strength winds on that day. Miss U said her 
brother may have been away for a few days.  I understand RSA checked the records for a 
few days earlier and found 50mph winds. Im satisfied these are strong enough to be 
considered storm strength.
Strong winds  are known  to cause fences and boundary walls to collapse, so the answer to 
the second question is yes.
To answer  the third question, Ive taken into account  the report and photos compiled by B as 
thats the only evidence RSA has provided  about the damage and its cause. Ive also 
considered the points  Miss U has made.
Overall, I dont  find Bs report persuasive.  It lists a number of observations and causes of the 
damage  the wall being too high,  poor workmanship, poor design, wear and tear, and a 
natural breakdown in materials. But it doesnt  provide  any evidence for any of these causes 
or explain how it reached this opinion.
I place little weight  on Bs comments  about  the construction of the wall. Miss U has pointed  
out that the wall has stood  for more than 20 years.  I agree with her that, at face value, this 
indicates there wasnt a significant problem with the way the wall was built or designed. If B 
considers a wall thats stood for this long was inadequately constructed,  I would expect it to 
provide evidence to support that point of view. For example,  to show  what standards applied  
to this type of wall at the time it was built  and how those standards  werent met. I havent 
seen anything along those lines from B or RSA.  So, Im not satisfied its been shown the 
collapse was a result  of inadequate design or construction of the wall.
B has also said the wall collapsed as a result  of wear and tear. But again, it hasnt explained 
why its reached this conclusion. Many  walls  that have stood for a long time will show  some  
signs of wear and tear but wont collapse. I can see from the photos that a similar section of 
brick wall, that wasnt damaged, doesnt  appear  to be suffering from deterioration.  And its 
not clear from the photos B took of the damaged section  that it collapsed  as a result  of wear 
and tear. It looks to me as if the wall and fence above the ground  level of the neighbours 
garden have come  down,  taking some of the lower brick wall with them.  In the absence  of 
any evidence to the contrary, that appears  to me be the result of the storm conditions 
experienced within days of discovery. For that reason, I think it was unfair  for RSA to decline 
the claim.
I understand Miss U has had the wall repaired.  To put things right, I think RSA should pay 
the claim,  plus interest.
Miss U accepted my provisional decision. She asked that I consider whether it would be 
reasonable for RSA to pay compensation.
Ref: DRN82087433RSA didnt accept  my provisional decision.  They made a number of points for me to consider 
and provided further photos and comments from B. In summary RSA said:
The wall was in a dilapidated condition,  with flaking and eroded  brickwork;
The damage was caused by a breakdown  of materials  and was inevitable regardless 
of the weather conditions;
The wall lacked pillars or weep holes;
The person  who inspected the damage  for B has several building qualifications  and 
many years of experience  in the construction industry;
Another person  from B has assessed  the claim and doesnt think  the damage  was 
caused by a storm;
There were  no storm conditions  on the day the damage  was discovered. The 
weather simply highlighted an existing problem with the wall;
Overall RSA strongly maintains the claim shouldnt  be covered because  the damage  
is a result of wear and tear rather than a storm.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.
I accepted in my provisional decision that there werent storm conditions  on the day the 
damage was discovered. Storm damage isnt always discovered on the day it happened. 
Miss U didnt live at the house where the wall collapsed. And she says her brother, who did 
live there  and reported the problem to her, may not have been  there  for a few days. So, I 
think its reasonable to consider the weather  conditions shortly  before the day the damage 
was discovered. RSA themselves did this and agreed there were storm conditions as a 
result of Storm  David  before the complaint  was referred to this service. Overall,  Im satisfied  
there were storm conditions shortly before the wall collapsed.
I dont doubt the qualifications and experience of the person who inspected the damage.  
When I consider the findings of an expert, I take these factors into account. I also consider 
their explanation and reasoning for why theyve reached those findings and how they think  
the damage has been caused. If that isnt persuasive, I may not think  it fair for an insurer to 
rely on what theyve said to decline a claim.
Ive reconsidered  Bs report. Its findings  say there is no evidence of storm damage. The 
single skin wall is built too high the damage  has occurred due to a natural breakdown  of 
materials and poor workmanship. As I explained in my provisional decision,  no further 
evidence or explanation was offered by B to support their findings that the wall was too 
high. Similarly, they hadnt explained  why or how poor workmanship  caused the wall to 
collapse.
In their response to my provisional  decision,  RSA has now said that the wall lacks  pillars and 
weep holes. They said the wall had no pillars for stability and it should have incorporated 
weep holes to allow any water pressure behind it to be relieved. The wall supported  the 
ground that made up the neighbours garden. So, I understand RSAs point that a build up of 
pressure in the ground as a result of water could have caused the wall to lean and ultimately 
collapse. But RSA hasnt provided  any evidence  to show the wall collapsed because  of a 
lack of pillars or because  of a build-up  of water pressure behind  the wall. These  two points  
Ref: DRN82087434appear to be speculation  about what could have contributed toward the collapse  rather  than 
what actually caused it. Although I agree  its possible these are often  factors  in collapsed  
walls, I havent seen  any evidence to persuade they were in this particular case. RSA 
acknowledged in their response  to me that this wall wouldnt have been subject to building 
regulations but nonetheless they would expect good  building practice  to have been followed. 
But they havent said what construction standards applied at the time the wall was built to 
show me that these  features were  required  or that certain standards  werent met.
Ive looked at the photos RSA has sent to consider their point about  a breakdown of 
materials. Some of the brickwork and mortar  behind the wall is dislodged  and crumbling. 
This is in the area of collapse  so its not clear how much of this is indicative of the condition 
of the wall prior to the collapse and how much is the result of the collapse.  Nonetheless, I 
accept the wall has likely suffered some degree of wear and tear. But the wall had stood  for 
over twenty  years prior to its collapse. Some deterioration over time is inevitable. But Im not 
persuaded wear  and tear was the primary cause  of the collapse. If it wasnt for the storm, I 
think the wall would  have  stood. So, in my opinion  the storm was the primary cause of the 
wall collapsing  and therefore  it should be covered by the policy.
Ive thought about what Miss U has said. I think shes  likely been caused some  
inconvenience as a result  of RSA declining her claim. The main impact of that is being  
without the money  she spent repairing  the wall, which is why my award includes interest. 
Aside from that her main inconvenience  has been additional e-mail communication  about the 
claim.  But I dont think it warrants compensation. Im satisfied my award is a fair resolution  
to this complaint.
Ref: DRN82087435my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint. Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must:
Pay the claim for storm damage, subject to the remaining policy  terms and 
conditions;
Pay interest at eight per cent simple on the amount due from the date Miss U paid for 
the wall to be repaired to the date this amount is paid. *
*Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc
deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Miss U how much has been taken off.
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should give Miss U a tax deduction certificate if she asks
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss U to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Kevin Parmenter 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8208743