K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (BOS)  mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 26 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional decision is
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I think  I
cant uphold the complaint.
BOS didn't reply  to my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs D did respond.  They  strongly 
disagreed with my provisional decision and raised  some points in response.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs D dont agree they were told they didn't 
have to have the policy.  Mrs D has told us she was herself newly employed by the Halifax 
and didn't know what PPI was. She had presumed  there was no choice but to take the PPI 
and that it was automatically included with a mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs D say that by my not believing what they are saying implies they are lying and I 
have taken the word  of BOS over theirs. And as Mrs D was part of the financial services  
industry, she was aware of the systematic mis-selling of PPI and the pressure staff were put 
under to sell it. 
I am sorry  that Mr and Mrs D feel my provisional  decision  implies they are lying.  Id like to 
assure them this is not the case. But where I have such limited  information and evidence to 
rely upon, as in this case, then I have to decide  on the balance of probabilities  what  I think  
more than likely happened.
In this case, it is evident that Mr and Mrs D had a PPI product in Mr Ds name and which  
would provide cover for around  a third of the monthly repayment. I had to consider how this 
came about.  And this led me to conclude that it was more  than likely  that the policy had been 
discussed, including the benefit  that would be of most use to them. And that the policy  was 
to be in the name of Mr D only, as the higher earner, which would seem a logical decision for 
them to have taken.  
For me to have concluded that policy was added automatically,  I would have needed to think 
it was more likely than that is what happened. But because  of the specific benefits chosen  I 
believe it most likely that it was discussed and agreed. And as I said in my provisional 
decision, I think its just as likely that BOS advised Mr and Mrs D that they should have the 
policy rather than they had to have it. 
Ref: DRN82947512I am aware  there were failings in the financial services industry and PPI was mis-sold. But I 
have to consider  what I believe to be fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ds own particular complaint. And I have  taken into account what both parties 
have told me in reaching the conclusion that I have. 
I do appreciate the effort  Mr D went to to provide  me with his employee benefits  if he wasnt  
able to work. It looks like he would have received his salary for ten months if he was unwell. 
However, I pointed out, and would reiterate, that the policy would have paid out for 
12 months, and that amount would be over and above any employee  benefits, so I maintain 
the policy would have been  useful  to Mr and Mrs D. 
Taking on a mortgage  is a large and long-term  financial commitment.  The penalties for 
missing repayments are significant  even going  so far as losing ones  home. So I do think 
the policy would have been  a useful benefit for Mr and Mrs D in what  could be a financially 
stressful time if Mr D wasnt able to work.  
Mr and Mrs D have said that if Mr D wasnt able to work for a long period of time the policy  
wouldnt have made a significant  difference  as to whether they had to sell their home. But, 
as I have explained above,  I do think the benefits  of the policy were discussed  and then 
decided upon.  So I think it likely  that this had been thought through  and something they 
wanted. 
Mr and Mrs D have referred  to my comment that the policy  looked  affordable  but that 
comment was irrelevant  if they hadnt needed  or asked for the PPI. But when considering 
this complaint, if the policy  had looked prohibitively expensive  for Mr and Mrs D, I may have 
questioned its suitability in light of their circumstances. But I concluded there was nothing to 
show that it wasnt affordable for them. 
I have taken into account the comments made by Mr and Mrs D, but because of what  Ive 
said above they dont change my mind. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint 
about The Bank of Scotland  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 December  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN82947513copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) (BOS)  mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995, for which they paid a monthly amount of 
£10.35. The policy was in the name of Mr D only.
In the event  of a successful claim, if Mr D wasnt able to work because of accident, sickness or 
involuntary redundancy, the policy would  have paid out a monthly benefit of £150 for up to 12 months.
Mr and Mrs D complained they had been mis-sold the policy. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been  passed to me to 
decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair  and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in provisionally  deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive provisionally decided that Mr and Mrs Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why. Mr and Mrs 
D say they were pressured into taking the PPI policy  and didn't feel they had a choice about it.
First I will look at whether the policy was presented as optional.  I think BOS  made  it clear  that Mr and 
Mrs D didn't  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it. I know Mr and Mrs D feel strongly 
about this but I have to look at the information  I have  to decide what  I think  most likely  happened.
BOS hasnt been able to give us any paperwork  from the point  of sale.  But I dont find this surprising 
given the sale took place nearly  25 years  ago, the mortgage  has been redeemed and businesses 
arent obliged to keep records indefinitely. Mr and Mrs D havent been  able to give us any documents 
either.
The policy was set up to cover Mr D only and the monthly benefit was limited to £150  rather than the 
total monthly mortgage repayment of £431.64. This suggests  to me that there was a discussion about  
the policy  and how it would be of most benefit to Mr and Mrs D. They  made  a deliberate choice about  
who was going to covered  by the policy and how much for. I do note that both Mr and Mrs D were 
employed but Mr D earned more than twice as much as Mrs D at the time so this may be the reason  
for their decision to protect a proportion of his
income. So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D were  aware they had a choice  and that they chose 
what was most beneficial for their circumstances.
Ill now look at Mr and Mrs Ds concern  they felt pressured by the adviser to take the PPI. 
Its hard to know what was said during the meeting. And I appreciate Mr and Mrs D have tried to 
provide the best recollection they have. But I have to be persuaded it was more  likely than not that 
they were pressured into taking the policy. As BOS advised Mr and Mrs D to take out the policy, I 
think its just a likely they were told they should take out the policy,
Ref: DRN82947514rather than they had to. And looking at their circumstances, I dont think that would  have been 
unsuitable advice. I havent seen enough in this case to make me decide  Mr and Mrs Ds version  of 
events is more than likely what  happened.
As mentioned  above, BOS advised Mr and Mrs D to take the policy. And in doing  so assessed their 
circumstances and ability  to meet their monthly repayments and made  a recommendation to take out 
the PPI. When a business makes a recommendation to a consumer it has to make sure it was right 
for them. And in this case I cant say it wasnt.
Mr and Mrs D were both employed but Mr D earned more  than twice that of Mrs D, so it doesnt  seem 
unreasonable that it was decided Mr Ds income  was the one that needed protecting. Mr and Mrs D 
disagreed. They told us that if Mr D wasnt able to work  because of sickness he had very generous 
employee pay  12 months full pay followed  by 12 months half pay. And because of this they say they 
wouldnt have needed  the policy  as the monthly repayments were covered and they also could have  
relied upon  Mrs Ds salary.
Mr and Mrs D werent able to provide evidence  of these benefits other than a staff handbook which  
post-dated the point  of sale. That handbook confirmed  that given  Mr Ds length of service with his 
employer his sick was generous, but at a lower rate of ten months full pay. 
The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months, and over and above  Mr Ds employee benefits  if 
Mr D couldnt work or was made involuntarily  redundant  so for two months longer than his employee 
sick pay. And I think it was a deliberate decision to choose the amount of benefit  they did - £150 per 
month  leaving a shortfall on their monthly mortgage repayment of £280.  So it looks like Mr and Mrs 
D may have considered Mr Ds employee benefits  would have covered the shortfall or could  have 
relied upon  Mrs Ds salary  later on if
necessary.
As I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr and Mrs D, its possible  the information BOS  
gave them about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mr D doesnt appear to have 
been affected  by any of the main things  the policy didn't cover  a pre-existing medical condition as 
an example. And based on what I know about Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances, it looks like the policy  
could have been useful  to them. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  
would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments, in particular what  they have been able to tell us 
about Mr Ds employee sick pay benefits. But because of what Ive said above, this point doesnt 
currently change my mind.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I provisionally dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2019.
Ref: DRN8294751