K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Birmingham  Midshires 
(Birmingham Midshires)  acted unfairly  and unreasonably in relation to reports it made  to 
the credit  reference  agencies  about her mortgage.  She wants  her credit records  changed.
background
Miss R had a mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. She got into financial difficulties due to 
unemployment, and agreed a repayment  plan with Birmingham Midshires.  Miss R said that 
she paid what she could  and was in regular contact with the lender. Miss R later found 
employment and agreed a long term plan to clear  the arrears.
But when Miss R applied  for a loan, the application  was unsuccessful; Miss R said she was 
told that this was due to her credit records. When she saw her records, Miss R found  that 
Birmingham Midshires had reported  a number of missed  and late mortgage payments. 
Miss R complained to Birmingham Midshires. It said that it was legally required to accurately 
report the state of the mortgage  account.  Miss R said it shouldve reported  that there was an 
arrangement to pay, not missed and late payments. Birmingham Midshires  agreed to show 
some entries as being part of an arrangement to pay, but refused to change the entries for 
May  September 2017 (which said Miss R had paid the mortgage  three  months late) as it 
said that there was no arrangement to pay in place at the time. Miss R disputed this.
Miss R complained to us. The investigators view was that there was no agreed repayment 
plan in place between May and September 2017  as Miss Rs income  was less than her 
expenses (an arrangement wouldnt have been  affordable), though Miss R did speak to 
Birmingham Midshires over this period. This meant that the credit entries were correct in her 
view. The investigator  pointed out that even recording a payment arrangement could affect 
Miss Rs ability  to get credit in any event, and that Miss Rs credit records  were marked  as 
poor.
Miss R disagreed. She said the disputed entries  by Birmingham Midshires were  the reason 
she couldnt get credit and was adamant that a payment plan had been agreed between May 
and September  2017. The investigator  disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to focus on the core of Miss Rs 
complaint, which  is about her credit records, not whether Birmingham Midshires treated her 
fairly when  she was in financial  difficulties.
Between May and September 2017, I can see Miss R did speak  to Birmingham Midshires 
several times. This isnt disputed. But the contact  notes, which were written at the time (so 
its reasonable to put weight on them), and the call recordings, show  that a formal payment 
arrangement wasnt  put in place. Miss R couldnt afford a regular repayment plan  lenders 
are required  to only formally agree to a repayment  plan when its affordable. Miss R paid 
what she could, but this wasnt part of a payment arrangement.  
Ref: DRN83714572I also note that Miss R says she kept all her letters and records  about the mortgage. She has 
letters about  the formal arrangement to pay ending in April 2017  and a reminder letter  from 
August 2017 that there is no arrangement to pay in place. Its usual to formally record a 
payment plan in writing;  Birmingham Midshires didnt do so between May and September 
2017. I think the evidence shows that there  was no payment arrangement  in place for this 
period. As Birmingham  Midshires  is legally required to report  the accurate status of the 
mortgage, I cant say that its at fault. Its a matter  for the credit reference agencies  how they 
choose to report  the information they receive,  including how many months of missed 
payments are set out.
In any event, Miss R hasnt provided  evidence that the disputed entries alone are the reason 
why she cant borrow money.  The lender  she applied to did not specifically mention 
Birmingham Midshires in its letter explaining  the position to Miss R; it refers  to her credit  
information. The credit  records  are marked as poor and show a failure to pay debts in full 
each month  for a significant period. Direct debits were returned and arrangements  to pay 
arent viewed entirely positively as they are still a failure to pay as originally agreed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 17 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8371457