K820x#14Complaint
Mr H has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  refund transactions,  which he says 
he didnt make.
Background
Three ATM  cash withdrawals totalling £680 were made from Mr Hs account on 8, 9 and 10 
September 2018. They were made  with Mr Hs debit  card and PIN. 
Mr H said he didnt make  them. He said he logged in to his online account  on 9 September 
to make a payment  to his mortgage account.  He saw he didnt have  enough money in his 
current account. He also noticed his debit  card was missing. However, it was late and he 
didnt think the banks helpline would be open so he didnt report it at the time.
He reported his debit card as missing on 10 September. He found out about the ATM cash  
withdrawals during the call to the bank. Barclays credited  his account temporarily with £680 
while it investigated his claim. He paid his mortgage and transferred some of the money to 
another account.
On 9 October,  Barclays debited the £680  from his account. 
Mr H complained and asked Barclays for a refund. 
Barclays decided not to refund him. It said: 
the cash withdrawals  were made with his card and PIN
there were no incorrect attempts at the PIN, which indicated the person using the 
card already knew it
the last genuine use of the card and PIN was on 3 September  but a contactless 
payment was made on 4 September. Barclays didnt think  it likely  that someone  
shoulder-surfed him on 3 September, waited until 4 September  to steal  his card and 
then wait a further five days  before  using  it.
Barclays concluded that hed authorised the cash withdrawals.
As Mr H didnt  agree with Barclays  decision, he asked this service to investigate. He also 
complained that Barclays  staff had been  rude to him.
He explained  that he normally kept his card in his wallet but he hadnt lost his wallet  or any 
other cards. He didnt know where or when hed lost his debit card. He said either he was at 
work, or at home when  the cash withdrawals were made.  He said he didnt keep a 
handwritten note of his PIN but hed told Barclays that he kept a note of it in a draft email 
that he stored on his mobile phone. His phone is password protected.  He said he lives alone 
and no one else had access to his debit card or phone.
An investigator looked into his complaint but decided not to uphold  it. Having reviewed  the 
evidence, he concluded it was more likely that Mr H had authorised  the transactions 
because there was no opportunity for someone else to find out his PIN or take his card. He 
also didnt think this was fraud because of the spending pattern on the account. In addition, 
he didnt think the staff had been rude to Mr H.
Ref: DRN87359342Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. Hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr H and Barclays have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I can assure both parties  that Ive read the file, including their comments and 
evidence.
In short,  Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr H says he didnt make the cash withdrawals of £680  and is seeking  a refund of 
that amount.  So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think he 
authorised the cash withdrawals. 
Having reviewed the banks technical  reports,  Im satisfied Mr Hs genuine card and PIN 
were used in order  for the disputed cash withdrawals to take place. But the regulations 
relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable  Barclays  to hold him liable. 
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence  suggests that its more likely than not 
that Mr H consented  to the withdrawals being  made by making them himself or allowing 
someone else to use his card.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that Mr H made 
the transactions because:
the correct PIN was used first time. This suggests the person using the card already 
knew it. Mr H said he hadnt shared his PIN with anyone else and didnt keep a 
handwritten note of it. He said he kept a note of the PIN in a draft email but this was 
stored in his mobile phone which was password protected. He said he lives alone 
and no one had access to his phone or card. He kept his card and phone  with him at 
work. Im afraid this leaves Mr H as the only person  who knew the PIN.
There was no credible  evidence  of third party theft. Mr H hasnt provided any details 
or information to explain when or how a third party  got hold of his card and PIN. Ive 
considered the possibility that someone observed  him entering his PIN (that is, that 
he was shoulder  surfed). The last opportunity for shoulder  surfing  was on 3 
September. However, he still had his card on 4 September when  he used it to make  
a contactless  payment.  I dont  think its plausible that an unknown third party 
observed him on 3 September,  made  a note of his PIN and then by sheer  
coincidence came  across him on 4 September and stole his card.  
There was an interval  of five days before the first disputed transaction.  Fraud  can 
take many different  forms. There isnt always a typical  pattern. However, it was 
unusual for a third party to wait five days before using the card. There  is a higher risk 
Ref: DRN87359343the card will be cancelled  the longer it is away from the cardholder. And, the card 
wasnt used in haste  or in shops, online or for the maximum amount available.
There were  no attempts  to use the card after it was cancelled.
Ive seen Mr Hs timesheet from work. I can see that his core hours  are 8pm to 8am. The 
timesheet suggests  he ended  work  on 8, 9 and 10 September at 8:00am. The disputed cash 
withdrawals happened  just before 8 am. Im afraid I cant say with certainty that it wasnt him.
Overall, I dont  find Mr Hs account  to be persuasive  or plausible.
Considering everything, I find, on balance,  that Mr H authorised the disputed  withdrawals. It 
follows that Barclays is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Ive listened to two phone conversations  between Mr H and Barclays staff. I didnt find the 
staff to be rude. On the contrary, I thought  they were helpful,  sympathetic and clear in their 
communications.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr H but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8735934