K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited  (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr C was given a single loan by ELL. He borrowed £1,500 in July 2016 that he agreed  to 
repay in 24 monthly  instalments. 
Mr Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Whilst he thought  that the 
checks ELL had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate, he thought the 
results of those checks should  have  led to the loan application being declined. So he asked 
ELL to pay Mr C some compensation.
ELL didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr C accepts my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Cs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave this loan to Mr C required  it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr C. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr C undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
higher repayments  from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN87203822the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr C.
ELL gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan.  It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. It checked his credit file to assess how much he 
was repaying to other creditors. And it asked Mr C for copies  of his bank statements so it 
could verify  what hed said about  his finances.
Mr C was entering into a significant  commitment  with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I think it was reasonable that ELL wanted to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information  about  Mr Cs financial circumstances 
before it agreed  to lend to him. I think that the checks Ive described above were  enough for 
it to do that. So I think  that the checks ELL did were  proportionate. 
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react  
appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. And that might  lead a lender 
to undertake further checks, or even to decide not to lend at all.
The checks  that ELL performed showed that Mr C had spent relatively heavily on online 
gambling transactions over the month before the loan had been requested  that spending 
was present for the majority of the period that was covered by the bank statements hed 
supplied to ELL. ELL identified that his pattern  of spending might be of concern and 
discussed the matter with Mr C before it agreed  the loan.
Mr C explained to ELL that the gambling spending was not evidence  that he was addicted  to 
gambling. He explained  that it had taken place during the duration of a major summer 
football tournament and that he had now closed his gambling account. ELL accepted Mr Cs 
explanation and agreed to give him the loan.
Mr Cs gambling expenditure was significant.  In the month before he applied for the loan he 
had spent an amount  in excess of his normal income. And in a period of four days  the week  
before the loan was agreed  his further  gambling  spending amounted to almost  the 
equivalent of his normal income. Whilst Mr Cs explanation of his gambling  expenditure 
might have been plausible I dont think it was reasonable  for ELL to simply rely on what  hed 
said, given the excessive nature of that recent  spending. 
I think it might have  been reasonable for ELL to ask Mr C for some  further  bank statements 
so it could ensure  that his explanation of his gambling spend being a one off was in fact true. 
So Ive looked  at Mr Cs bank statements for a further two months  before  the loan to see 
what those additional  checks  would have shown ELL.
Ref: DRN87203823Mr Cs earlier bank statements show clear evidence that he was in fact regularly spending  
large amounts on online gambling transactions. It is clear from those statements that the 
spending wasnt, as Mr C had suggested, simply related to the summer football  tournament.  
His statements appear to show that he was in fact suffering from an addiction  to gambling, 
and he was funding  that expenditure by borrowing from a range of other lenders. I dont 
think, had it seen that additional evidence, that ELL would have agreed to give this loan to 
Mr C.
So in summary,  I think that ELL should  have  done  further checks before lending to Mr C. 
And I think those additional checks would have  identified  that Mr Cs gambling expenditure 
demonstrated a likely  addiction. I think that would have led a responsible  lender to decline 
his loan application. So I dont think ELL should have given this loan to Mr C and it needs to 
put things right.
putting things right
I dont know the current status of Mr Cs loan. I am assuming that there is still a balance  
outstanding. However  I have also accounted, in the redress below, for the possibility that the 
loan has by now been fully repaid.
If a balance remains outstanding on the loan, ELL should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr C made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Cs loan account  as Ive directed results in Mr C effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then ELL should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Cs loan account  leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then 
I remind ELL that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking  to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan.
If the loan has been  fully repaid, ELL should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr C paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN87203824my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to 
put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8720382