K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy in June 1997  at the same time as taking  out a mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr R for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £340 a month towards Mr and Mrs Rs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £22.10 a month. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as an HGV  Driver. Mr and Mrs R have  told us Mr R was 
entitled to between three and six months  sick pay and didnt have any other means  of 
repaying his mortgage should he be unable to work  other  than relying on family.  However, 
Bradford & Bingley  has told us that the records from the time of sale show that Mr Rs 
employer reference  at the time indicated he would not get anything more  than statutory sick 
pay. Mr R has also said he wouldve been entitled to some  redundancy pay. Mr R has said 
he was in good health at the time of sale, which is consistent with whats shown on the 
mortgage application. 
Mrs R wasnt covered  by the policy. The mortgage  application described  her occupation as 
housewife at the time of sale, but also shows she was in employment  albeit this was noted 
to be casual work. Mr and Mrs R have said she wouldve been entitled  to between three and 
six months sick pay and some redundancy pay. 
Bradford & Bingley  has sent us the mortgage transaction  history  to show that the mortgage 
account closed  in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs Rs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Rs representative says:
Bradford & Bingley  failed to meet the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs R 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Rs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Bradford & Bingley 
should have told Mr and Mrs R about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN84328412The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Bradford & Bingley should  
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and 
Mrs R and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs R received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Rs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Ref: DRN84328413Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Bradford & Bingley at the time. So, Im satisfied I should  take the ABI 
Code and these  other  publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Rs case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Bradford & Bingley  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Bradford & Bingley  gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs R with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Bradford  & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN84328414-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs R, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs R 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs R 
and Bradford & Bingley,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs R know they had a choice?
Bradford & Bingley  had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
The mortgage application had a separate section  which required Mr and Mrs R to indicate  
whether they wanted to take the PPI, which was free for the first six months. This was 
marked YES by hand, and questions relating to their eligibility  for the PPI were also 
answered in the same  section of the application  form. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs R knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Bradford & Bingley  provide advice?
Both Bradford & Bingley and Mr and Mrs R agree that advice wasnt  provided  during this 
sale. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr and 
Mrs R. Instead,  it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policy,  including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs R were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr R 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment).  Ive reached this 
conclusion because the mortgage application  gave a brief description of the cover provided 
and explained  the policy was free for the first six months, after which  they would be charged.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Bradford & Bingley gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost after the free period or 
about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs R agreed to take out the policy.  
So, I dont think Bradford & Bingley  gave  Mr and Mrs R sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN84328415In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Rs. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Rs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs R about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Rs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs R have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Bradford & Bingley ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Bradford & Bingleys shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs R? To what 
extent did Mr and Mrs R suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Bradford & Bingley didnt do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy to 
Mr and Mrs R. So, Ive gone  on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs R would have still taken  out the policy,  had Bradford & Bingley done 
things properly. 
Mr and Mrs R say they would not have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs R had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr R being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs R chose to take this policy  out. So, I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what  Mr and 
Mrs R thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs R have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy after the free period, it doesnt appear Bradford & Bingley told them  
the exact premium  at the point they applied for the policy. Having said that, Mr and Mrs R 
were told the cost before the policy started (in the mortgage offer),  so if the costs were 
Ref: DRN84328416significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with Bradford & Bingley at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs R would have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Bradford & Bingley made clear  exactly  what Mr and Mrs R 
would get back  in return in the event Mr R made  a successful  claim (although,  again, this 
was shown in the mortgage  offer). But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Rs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did  in fact, the 
policy paid more in the event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an 
additional cash payment to cover the cost of their home insurance.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs R thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr R was aware  of or 
had sought treatment for during  the two years  before the policy  started (although  
such conditions would  become covered if Mr R had the policy for more than two 
years, and once  hed gone two consecutive years without treatment or medical  
advice for those conditions); 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R be unable  to 
do his own job, any other gainful  employment  for which  he was fitted by knowledge 
or training.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs R pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs R from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr R was eligible  for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to them should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr R 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr R didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs R would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
Ref: DRN84328417If Mr and Mrs R had known Mr R could only claim for disability if Mr R was unable to do both 
his job and any gainful occupation  to which he was fitted by knowledge and training, it might 
have played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept  it may have  
given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been  overly 
concerned given that if Mr R was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Bradford & Bingley  may not have  told Mr and Mrs R that any claim they made  would be 
limited to a 12-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for. But 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs R say Mr R would have 
received full sick pay for, and his redundancy entitlement was also likely to be significantly 
less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs R would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly loan repayments would have been of benefit to them and would help 
them manage the consequences should Mr R be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs R would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr R was made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Rs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs R would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Rs circumstances as detailed above,  I consider it reasonable to conclude the position 
Mr and Mrs R found themselves in, as a result of the sale, was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs R believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN84328418Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs R in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible that they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Bradford & Bingley should pay Mr and Mrs R compensation, as 
that would  put them  in a better position  than they would have been in if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs R think Bradford & Bingley misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI. While  I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude 
some of Bradford  & Bingleys statements misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the 
reason why Bradford & Bingley failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it 
did or didnt  say in the information  it provided   but because the overall information Bradford 
& Bingley gave  Mr and Mrs R, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I 
consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in June 1997 when providing 
information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Rs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Bradford  & Bingley negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs R 
and about the remedy a court might  award  if it were  to find that Bradford & Bingley had been 
in breach of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my 
conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  
including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For the reasons 
Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to put Mr and Mrs R in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8432841