K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as TSB) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C bought  a regular premium MPPI policy in November 1995  alongside  a 
mortgage in a meeting in one of Lloyds branches. The policy  covered Mr and C against 
accidents, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy to them. They  say through their 
representative that if the cost, benefit as well as optionality had been made clear to them  
they would  have declined the insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. As Mr and Mrs C dont agree with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  because of the following  reasons:
I first of all looked at whether Mr and Mrs C were given a choice to have the policy.  I 
looked at the sales  documentation provided  and considered Mr and Mrs Cs 
recollections to help me understand  what more likely  happened at the time of sale. 
Lloyds has provided an application form but it is not legible  in places. So its been  
difficult for me to consider  whether Mr and Mrs C were given a choice or not as to 
whether they should have the MPPI  policy.
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the amount of years  that have passed since  the sale, I 
have not been  able to obtain  a detailed  recollection  of the sale either. The application 
form does also show a tick in a box within the MPPI section. So with all of this in 
mind, I think it is more likely Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C a choice to have MPPI and 
they agreed to it by signing  the mortgage  application  form. 
Moving on, Lloyds  has said it recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs C and so, as 
this puts additional responsibilities  on the business, I will proceed that this was the 
case. So as it did recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs C, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Cs needs.  
After reviewing all that has been provided by the parties, it doesnt look as if the 
MPPI policy was unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time. Mr and Mrs C says they had sick pay (Mr C had 80% of 
his salary for 6 months and then half pay for 6 months. Mrs C ha 6 months full pay 
Ref: DRN81129182followed by 6 months half pay) but the policy would  also have paid in addition to any 
provisions they would have had. So the benefit would have been of use to Mr and 
Mrs C during a difficult time as they could have  used their sick pay to pay for other 
expenses. I think,  on balance,  when  I consider the benefit provided by the policy, 
they had a need for this cover for any extended  period of unemployment or sickness. 
I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would 
make the policy  unsuitable  for them.
Lloyds has provided some information about  the costs  relating to the MPPI policy  that 
Mr and Mrs C took out but even  though  it has provided information detailing how 
much it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs  were disclosed to Mr and Mrs C in a 
clear and fair way in the meeting. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mr and Mrs C would have done  anything different and decided against  
having the policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being 
suitable. Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve been affected by any of these.
So I dont think  Lloyds mis-sold Mr and Mrs C this PPI policy. This means Lloyds dont have  
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. But Lloyds has paid back some  of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell    
Mr and Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8112918