K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about the poor service and incorrect information hes received from Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). He also complains about the performance of the fund 
hes invested in, the amount of UK equity content  the fund holds, and the charges that Aviva 
has applied  to his pension.  
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 27 June  2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and that 
Aviva should  pay Mr G £150 for the distress  and inconvenience it caused.  I invited both 
parties to send any additional  comments or evidence they wished to make. 
Mr G didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary he said:
the proposed  compensation  of £150 was insufficient
as hed asked  to transfer  his pension away in December 2017, he thought  Aviva  
should use the valuation of his plan from that date and not impose any exit penalties  
on the transfer
he was disappointed in Avivas overall  level of service and felt he shouldnt have to 
pay any fees because  of the lack of service
he thought  wed taken too long to resolve  his complaint and had favoured  a large 
institution in favour of a small investor.
Aviva accepted my findings and agreed to pay the £150 compensation.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  considered  Mr Gs further 
points, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision.
Im sorry  to learn that Mr G believes  weve favoured  a large institution against him here.  Id 
like to reassure him that Ive reached my decision  impartially  and having considered all the 
evidence thats  been provided  to me by both parties. I previously explained how I had some  
sympathy for his position and understood how strongly he felt about  the matter.  But Ive not 
been able to say that Aviva made any errors  in how it explained the charges on his plan, with 
what charges it took, and the European  equity content of the plan. 
I also said that I thought  Aviva had carried out the overall management of Mr Gs plan in line 
with how it said it would,  so I thought  it was entitled to have charged the fees that applied to 
that level of management. And the terms and conditions clearly showed  that there is a 
transfer penalty that can still be applied  to the plan,  so I didnt  ask Aviva to waive any of its 
management fees or transfer penalties.
Mr G hasnt been able to provide any new information for me to consider, so Im not 
persuaded that Aviva should  honour  the 2017  valuation figure and not apply any 
(appropriate) penalties  to any transfer.  
Ref: DRN84519532But I did accept that Avivas service  regarding the issue of the statements  Mr G requested, 
and subsequent unanswered questions, wasnt at the level it should have been at. I said 
Aviva should  pay £150  for the impact  that level of service  would  have had on Mr G while he 
tried to resolve any issues before a possible transfer  of his pension.  
Aviva has said it will pay the amount of compensation I awarded although Mr G feels its 
insufficient. But I believe the amount is fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this 
complaint and I think it reflects the level of upset Mr G has suffered over the matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive set out above  and in my provisional decision I uphold Mr Gs 
complaint against  Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited,  in part. 
I think Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK Limited  should pay Mr G £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN84519533copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr G complains about the poor service and incorrect information hes received from Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). He also complains about the performance of the fund hes invested in, 
the amount of UK equity content  the fund holds, and the charges that Aviva has applied to his 
pension.  
background
Mr G has held an Executive Pension Plan with Aviva since 1992.  It was originally invested in Avivas 
with profits fund. The original  terms and conditions refer to one direct charge  known as the service 
charge. In late 1993  the plan was made paid up and the benefits were reassigned personally  to 
Mr G.
In October 2017 the plan was valued at £20,983.83 although the transfer value was slightly lower.
In November 2017 Mr G contacted Aviva  to update his address and also requested some information 
about his pension plan.  Some weeks later he called Aviva  to ask why he hadnt received the 
information he requested. He said he wasnt  happy  with the service Aviva had given him and was also 
unhappy about the charges  on his plan as he didnt  think they were  justified. He asked  for someone to 
call him back.  But Mr G didnt get a call back so in December 2017 he complained, making the 
following points:
He said he wasnt provided with a statement and the asset allocation  information hed 
requested in a timely manner. 
Aviva didnt call him back  to answer his questions as promised.
He was given incorrect information about the annual management fees.
As he hadnt received  the statement and didnt have on-line access he asked Aviva to justify 
its platform charges  and he said it couldnt.
The statement confirmed he was invested in a Europe ex UK equities  fund but he said the 
fund factsheet couldnt  confirm the funds objective and what the key holdings were. 
He said the fund invested  in some UK equities (44%), despite being a European fund. And 
the charges seemed  to be lower than what he was told he was being  charged within  his plan.
The fund hadnt outperformed Avivas own  less aggressive,  benchmarks. 
He wanted to be reimbursed for the platform  and management charges for the three previous 
years, and to be allowed  to transfer his pension  without charge.
Aviva said it had provided valuations and projections on 1 December 2017 and confirmed  the transfer 
value of the plan that applied on that date. It also confirmed that the policy charge on the plan was a 
£7.30 per month  service  fee. 
Mr G wasnt  happy with the response and wrote to Aviva again  but as he didnt  receive any further 
reply he brought  his complaint to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and said it should  be upheld.  He explained what  
the charges that had been  applied to Mr Gs plan were and confirmed  that we wouldnt usually  
investigate the performance of an investment. But he did say that Avivas level of service  had been 
poor and recommended it paid Mr G £150 for the distress and inconvenience  this had caused. He 
also requested that Aviva  gave a full explanation  of why the fund included UK equities despite being  a 
European ex UK equity  fund.
Mr G didnt agree with the assessment. He said Aviva hadnt provided  him with any level of service 
and he wanted the last three years fees refunded  which  came to £750. He also said it was unfair if 
Avivas funds were invested  outside  of the described  definition. 
Ref: DRN84519534For that reason he thought  it was fair if Aviva gave him the opportunity of a penalty free transfer to a 
different provider. He then asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman,  so its been 
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And, having done so Ive come  to broadly  the same conclusions as 
the investigator but for slightly different  reasons
I can see that Mr G feels very strongly about the poor service and misleading  information he says 
Aviva has provided him with. And I know that he would like us to punish Aviva  for its actions and tell it 
to compensate him for the fees hes paid. I have some sympathy for Mr Gs position. So Ive set out 
my findings  around  the complaint points  Mr G has raised  below.
Charges on the plan 
Mr G says Aviva hasnt provided him with a good service over the last 20 years and doesnt 
understand how it can justify charging him platform fees. He wants at least  the last three years fees - 
£750 to be refunded.  
Ive looked carefully at the fees that are applied  to Mr Gs plan.  And I can see that in the original  terms 
and conditions reference  is made  to a £7.30 per month service charge. This charge  was reiterated in 
the letter  Aviva sent Mr G in December 2017.   So Im satisfied  Aviva set out the initial charges in the 
original documentation  for the plan.  
Mr G says Aviva has since  told him the other charge that applies to his pension  is a 1.25% annual 
management charge (AMC).   
The original terms and conditions refer to the management charge as being  deducted from each 
investment fund. The charge  will be calculated  as a percentage, determined  from time to time by the 
company, of the value of the investment fund. In Mr Gs case the AMC  is set at 1.25% - and he 
hasnt disputed  hes being charged that, but hes said that its high compared to other providers, and 
hes also said the fund fact sheet hes seen referred to a total expense ratio (TER) of 1.06% - which is 
below 1.25%. He says if the service charge  is added to the AMC  it makes a TER of over 1.65%, 
which is higher than what  Aviva told him it was.
Mr G provided us with a copy of a fund fact sheet to substantiate his claim but hes referred to the fact 
sheet for the life fund whereas Mr G was invested in the pension fund.  The pension fund sheet  
which Ive seen  a copy of  does give an example of the funds annual performance for previous 
years and states that figures below  are based on units which contain AMC of 1% and additional  
expenses of 0.01%, which gives a total fund charge of 1.01%. These or may not be the same as your 
policy. Further  information  on the AMC can be found on page  4. 
And the relevant  section  on page 4 explains that the AMC covers the cost of running the fund and any 
product charges which might  be applicable. So, Im satisfied that Aviva didnt explicitly state that the 
total charges were 1.01% - only that these were illustrative product charges. And I think  it went onto 
explain that Mr Gs AMC could comprise  other costs involved in managing  his plan  and directed  him 
to the website for more  details of his policy  charges.  So I dont think  Aviva has been  misleading about  
its charges and I think it made Mr G aware of the information that was available to him to confirm what  
the charges would be.
Mr G says Avivas charges  are high  in comparison  to other providers and it isnt justified in charging 
them for the lack of service  it provides.  In most circumstances, there is no regulatory limit on the 
amount that a provider can take by way of charges or fees, although  bundled funds  typically  have 
higher annual management charges as the fund manager and platform provider who do the 
administration typically share those charges. 
Ref: DRN84519535But I cant safely say Avivas  charges are high  and we wouldnt normally comment  on the level of 
charges that have been set  if the provider  has laid them  out previously  which  I think Aviva has 
done here. 
And theres no evidence to suggest Aviva hasnt carried out its regulatory duties in managing  Mr Gs 
plan and done  what it said it would do for him. I appreciate Mr G isnt happy with the service he says 
Aviva has given him or the performance of the plan, but  although Ill expand on my findings  on those 
matters below   I dont  think  they can safely be included  as part of what  Aviva needed to do as part of 
its contracted service for which it charged fees.  
UK equity content  of the plan
Mr G is unhappy with the equity content of the fund and thought  he shouldnt be charged for a fund 
which operated outside  of its stated objectives. He pointed out that the fact sheet showed  44% UK 
equity content for a fund that shouldnt have included any UK equities. But as Ive explained  above 
Mr G has referred to a life fund fact sheet  and Ive now been able to look closely at the pension  fund 
fact sheet. 
And it shows that the fund  as of August  2018   was 99.6%  invested in European  equities  with some 
cash holdings. And I note the fund is described  as being  an active investment style which  is rated at 
the higher end of Avivas fund risk rating scale. So I dont agree with Mr G that the fund is invested 
outside of its defined strategy and I think Avivas fund fact sheet information  makes its clear  how the 
fund is invested.
Performance of the plan
Mr G has also said that the plan has performed  poorly and hadnt even  outperformed Avivas own less 
aggressively invested  funds. And I can understand Mr Gs disappointment if he believes the fund 
hasnt performed well in comparison. But, we wouldnt  normally  uphold a complaint on that basis 
alone. Thats because the very nature of investments means that their value will rise and fall 
according to a variety  of  usually external factors  which the fund managers arent  generally able to 
control.  So  it wouldnt  be fair to blame  Aviva  for a particular funds performance,  unless theres 
reason to consider  the fund was unsuitable.  But Mr G hasnt suggested thats the case, hes just said 
hes disappointed with the growth on the plan and that the fees are too high for such a poor 
performance. So I wont  be upholding this part of his complaint for those reasons. 
 
Avivas service and communication
Its clear that Avivas service to Mr G  after he contacted it for a statement,  and then when he asked 
some further questions, wasnt as good as it could have been. Indeed I note when  he brought his 
complaint to us Mr G said Aviva still hadnt answered some of his points and Ive seen no evidence  to 
show that it did. 
So I agree with the investigator that Aviva  hasnt provided a good level of service on these  matters 
and I can see the impact this has had on Mr G.  Its caused him a great deal of frustration and hes 
been concerned about the composition of his investment, without being  able to get the answers that 
may have allayed his fears  and confusion. So I think Aviva should compensate Mr G for the trouble  
and upset its caused and Im in agreement that it should  pay £150 for these failings  as a fair and 
reasonable award in the circumstances. 
But I cant safely say that Aviva should pay any more  and Im not going  to ask it to pay back the AMC  
fees that Mr G wants, as I dont think Aviva  has failed to provide the service relating to the 
management of the plan that it said it would. And Im not going to ask Aviva to allow  Mr G to transfer 
his pension to another provider without any penalties. The plan still has a transfer penalty that can be 
applied and I think thats clear from the terms and conditions, and I dont think  Aviva has done 
anything wrong on that matter for me to ask it to waive  the penalty.  
Ref: DRN84519536my provisional  decision
For the reasons  that Ive given Im minded to uphold Mr Gs complaint  against Aviva Life & Pensions 
UK Limited in part. I think Aviva should pay Mr G £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience its caused.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8451953