K820x#14complaint
Mr Vs complaint is that Scottish  Widows Limited did not carry out its duties as a Self 
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  operator correctly.   Specifically  he thinks:
It should have  told him that the investments he made were unregulated collective 
investment schemes (UCIS) and dangerous.
He wasnt a sophisticated investor and the investments  were  unsuitable being too 
high risk.
The role of Suffolk Life wasnt properly explained  to him.
background
In 2008 to 2009, on the advice of his IFA, Mr V made investments in three Sterling Mortimer 
funds.  These funds have  performed poorly and currently are suspended.
Scottish Widows  said that it was not responsible  for the suitability of the investments for Mr 
V.  This was the responsibility  of his IFA.  His IFA had signed  a document confirming that he 
was a sophisticated investor.  At  the time the investments were made there was no 
indications of any problems with the Sterling  Mortimer funds.   
Mr Vs complaint was looked at by an investigator.   He didnt think that the complaint  should 
be upheld.  Scottish Widows  are not responsible for the suitability of the investments  this is 
the responsibility of the adviser who recommended them.   However, SIPP operators do have 
certain obligations in respect  of the investments  they allow to be held within  SIPPs.   They  
are also expected to check  that adviser firms have the correct permissions for the advice 
being given and that there are no concerns about  the quality of the advice.   
He set out the obligations which SIPP operators  have and why he considered that Scottish 
Widows had met these obligations.  As he was satisfied that Scottish  Widows had met its 
obligations he didnt  think the complaint should be upheld.    
Mr V did not agree  with the investigator.  He made  the following points:
He was not told the investments were  UCIS  and at no point did he sign any 
documents confirming  he was a sophisticated  investor.  The sophisticated  investor 
certificate provided does not name  him.
In his complaint  against his IFA this service  agreed that he was not a sophisticated 
investor.
The firm has valued the funds incorrectly.
Similar complaints against  SIPP operators have been upheld  by both the courts  and 
this service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
Mr V had a personal pension with Clerical Medical.  One of the fund choices within  the 
scheme was for investors to manage  part of the fund themselves.  Clerical  Medical 
appointed Suffolk  Life, a SIPP operator, to operate this part of the pension.  Clerical Medical 
Ref: DRN88252642remained responsible  for the way Suffolk  Life operated this part of the pension.  Following a 
takeover, responsibility  for this complaint now rests with Scottish Widows.    
Mr Vs complaint is that the firm should  have  done  something which  would have resulted in 
him not going  ahead  with the investments.
It is important  to note that Mr V was advised  to make these investments.  The  ombudsman  
service has upheld a complaint  about this advice.   However, the advice firm wasnt  able to 
pay the required compensation  and the matter has been referred to the FSCS.
As the investigator  set out at length in his letter of 9 February 2018 SIPP  operators  have 
obligations to their clients in respect of the investments that they allow  to be held in the 
SIPP.  A SIPP operator must carry out due diligence  on investments intended to be held 
within SIPPs.  They must also look at the investments being recommended by IFAs for signs  
of any suspicious behaviour. 
The FCA has also made clear that the due diligence required will vary depending  on the 
nature of the intended investments.  The Sterling Mortimer  funds were  all listed  on 
recognised stock exchanges and are therefore considered to be standard investments rather 
than non standard ones.  Given this the level of due diligence required would be less than for 
more esoteric non standard investments.
The Sterling Mortimer funds were  unregulated  collective investment schemes.   However, 
whilst they were not covered by the UK regulator  they were  regulated  by the Guernsey 
Financial Services Commission.  Mr V held shares  in a protected cell company.  These  
shares (some preference and some  ordinary shares) were listed  on the Channel  Island 
Stock Exchange which is a recognised stock exchange.  In addition  to being listed  on a 
recognised exchange the investments  were intended to be for a fixed term with a set 
redemption date.  Checks were  carried out by the SIPP operator on the investments and 
their eligibility to be held within a SIPP.
Therefore, like the investigator, I am satisfied that the due diligence  carried out by the firm on 
the funds was, in the circumstances, sufficient.  I also agree with the investigator that the 
size and nature of the investments recommended by the IFA would not have aroused any 
suspicions.   
The original  application  form for the first Sterling Mortimer fund was completed by the SIPP 
operator rather than Mr V.  One section of the application form is headed sophisticated 
investors certificate.  This is in two parts - an investor declaration and an adviser 
declaration.  The first part was completed by the SIPP operator.  The second part is for an 
adviser to confirm that the investor  is sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the risks 
associated with the investments described in the above certificate.  The  investments  
described were shares, units in a collective investment scheme and rights under  a personal 
pension.  This section was signed by Mr Vs adviser but does not name Mr V.
Whilst this section wasnt completed properly I dont think  this affects  the outcome of this 
complaint.  I accept that Mr V wasnt a sophisticated investor.  However, the SIPP operator 
was relying on the advisers declaration that Mr V understood the risks of the investments.  I 
consider it was reasonable for the operator  to have relied on this declaration.
The Stirling  Mortimer funds have now become illiquid - meaning that Mr V cant sell them.  
However, it is not unusual  for funds to become illiquid, especially property based funds such 
Ref: DRN88252643as Stirling Mortimer.  I dont  think the fact the funds have now become illiquid shows  that the 
initial due diligence  was lacking.  
Given the uncertainty about the value of the funds, two of the three funds have  been  valued 
at zero.   Whilst charges have accrued based on earlier higher values (last value before they 
became illiquid) these havent  been charged to Mr V.  Scottish Widows says it will review  
these charges when  and if it becomes  possible to establish a value for these funds.  In the 
circumstances I consider this to be reasonable approach to take.   
Each complaint is decided  on its own individual facts.  I have decided in this case that 
Scottish Widows/Suffolk Life carried out the required level of due diligence for the Stirling  
Mortimer funds. Whether  appropriate  due diligence  was carried out will be decided on a fund 
by fund basis.
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8825264