K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about problems he encountered when he asked Zurich Assurance Ltd to 
accept a transfer of some  pension savings he held with another pension  scheme.  Later he 
additionally complained that Zurich completed the transfer of those  funds from the other 
scheme despite his request for the transfer to be put on hold whilst his complaint was being 
investigated by us. Zurich has agreed  to us considering both these events as part of this 
complaint.
background
Mr T held some pension savings with Zurich.  He also held another small amount of pension  
savings with another provider that I will call R. In 2014 and 2015 Mr T had asked Zurich  to 
accept the transfer  of these pension savings from R. But on each occasion Zurich declined  
to accept the transfer given the amount involved was less than its minimum transfer amount. 
But when Mr T made a further  request, in 2018,  for Zurich to accept the transfer, it agreed to 
waive its normal limits.
Mr T says he found that transfer process  to be confused and the communication he received 
from Zurich to be poor. He says he was left with very little confidence in Zurichs ability to be 
clear about  the steps that were needed to authorise  or agree this transfer. And he says 
those fears were increased further  when, at the very end of the process, he was sent an 
additional form to complete  to confirm whether or not hed taken financial advice before 
requesting the transfer. And to make matters worse  he says that form did not have any clear  
place for him to sign it, and so Zurich suggested  he amend the form to create a signature  
space.
As a result of these problems Mr T says he verbally advised Zurich  that the transfer should 
be placed on hold whilst  this Service considered  his complaint. He thought  that our 
consideration of what had happened was important as it would provide clarity over what  had 
been agreed should there be any dispute in the future. But by that stage the transfer was 
already in train, and R sent the funds to Zurich.
Mr T says that R, aware of his concerns, got in touch with him to check  whether  hed wanted  
the transfer to take place  by that stage the funds had already been  sent to Zurich. When 
Mr T confirmed hed asked Zurich to place  a hold on the transfer R agreed to request a 
return of the funds. Zurich  sent the funds  back to R when requested.
When Mr T first complained to Zurich about  the problems hed experienced in making the 
original transfer request,  Zurich agreed  that it could have provided him with better  
information. So it paid Mr T £175  in respect  of the costs of the telephone calls hed needed 
to make,  and the trouble and upset the matter had caused to him.
Mr T brought  his complaint about  the transfer processes to this service. And shortly 
afterwards he additionally  complained about the transfer not being  placed on hold. Both 
these matters were considered by one of our investigators. He thought that the payment 
Zurich had already  made to Mr T was fair and reasonable  compensation given all the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr T didnt  agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved  
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN85293282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I think I should also be clear about  the scope of this decision. In this decision I will be 
considering what  has happened in the interactions  between Mr T and Zurich that directly led 
up to the point at which  his pension  funds were transferred  from R. And I will also consider  
whether it was reasonable for those funds to have been transferred despite Mr Ts request 
for the process to be placed on hold  and how Zurich responded to the request for the 
return of the funds to R.
But Ive also seen that, in his final submissions  to this Service,  Mr T raised concerns about 
the way his complaint has been  handled by the Financial Ombudsman Service.  This 
decision is not the appropriate  place  to explore those  concerns. As Mr T is aware the 
Service has a separate  complaints procedure that he is fully entitled to use. And should he 
be unhappy with the result  of that complaints procedure he is able to take his concerns to 
the Independent Assessor.
Having fully reviewed  the evidence and testimony that has been provided  by Mr T and by 
Zurich I have seen  little that gives  me concern about  transfer of Mr Ts pension funds. And 
so I wont be upholding  Mr Ts complaint. But I think it would be helpful  for me to provide my 
analysis of what happened,  and perhaps  why, over that time.
Zurich is entitled,  under the terms and conditions of Mr Ts pension plan, to set minimum 
amounts that it will accept for inbound  transfers. In my opinion  that is entirely reasonable  
a provider must be allowed, in general,  to set the terms on which  it is willing to do business. 
It wouldnt generally be appropriate for me to become  involved in such  matters.  But I have 
noted that Zurich  ultimately agreed  to waive those normal terms in the specific 
circumstances of Mr Ts request providing the transfer was competed by a certain date. So it 
is reasonable for Mr T to expect his transfer to be treated in the same way as a transfer that 
exceeded the normal minimum value.
Over the years the regulation of, and the regulatory concerns about, pension  transfers  has 
increased. So pension  providers are required to undertake  a number of checks to ensure 
that consumers  are protected from poor outcomes in certain  circumstances. And as a result 
of that complexity  consumers themselves  often  choose to take independent financial advice 
to assist their decision making.
There are certain circumstances where consumers are required to take financial advice  
before a transfer is made. But it is also worth noting  that under the current regulations  it is 
the sending scheme  (R in this case) that needs  to ensure that appropriate advice has been 
taken when advice  is required  by those regulations. But Mr Ts transfer  didnt fit into the 
Ref: DRN85293283categories of transfer where advice was required.  The sum he was transferring was less 
than £30,000.  And the benefits  he held were in the form of a defined contribution pension  
he didnt hold any valuable guarantees such as minimum pension amounts  or guaranteed 
annuity rates. So his transfer of funds  from R to Zurich should  have been relatively 
straightforward.
The information that Zurich sent to Mr T was relatively generic. It didnt apply specifically to 
Mr Ts circumstances  so did raise matters such as the advice  that would be needed  for a 
transfer of defined benefit pension sums.  I have  listened  to the telephone calls that took 
place between Mr T and Zurich. And having done so it is clear that this additional information 
caused concern  to Mr T  he wanted  to ensure that the forms he was completing accurately 
reflected the transfer he was requesting. But I dont think what  Zurich  was asking of Mr T 
was anything out of the ordinary or something that could  have  caused  significant problems at 
a later stage.
In the transfer  Zurich  was, to some degree,  acting as an intermediary.  In reality Mr T was 
instructing R to transfer the pension benefits  to Zurich. But in matters  such as these it is 
often helpful for the receiving scheme  to act in the intermediary capacity to ensure that what  
is received from the sending scheme is fully documented and in accordance  with the terms 
of conditions of the receiving pension product. But ultimately  Mr Ts request to transfer the 
funds was made to R and acted upon  by that business.
It isnt clear exactly when Mr T asked Zurich to place the transfer process  on hold. I can see 
that he first contacted  this service at the end of November  2018. So based  on what  hes told 
us I think it would have  been around that time that he asked Zurich  to place the transfer  on 
hold. But that was around two weeks after hed given the paperwork to Zurich  that it needed 
to send to R for the transfer  to take place.   
So Im not entirely  surprised that Zurich was unable to, or decided  not to, get in touch with R 
to stop the transfer. I have noted  that Mr T has made reference to a cancellation form  that 
he was sent by Zurich.  He says that this form required him to send it back to Zurich before 
19 December if he didnt  want  to proceed with the transfer. But I think  he has misunderstood 
the purpose of that form. The form wasnt designed to prevent the transfer taking place  it 
was to allow Mr T to unwind the transfer.  And that is exactly  what  happened when R got in 
touch with Zurich  after its conversation with Mr T.
I accept that, at times, the information that Zurich  gave to Mr T wasnt as clear as it might  
have been. But I also think, from listening to the conversations  Mr T had with Zurich,  and 
comparing those to many other  conversations I have listened to between  pension providers 
and other  consumers, that Mr T was asking Zurich for a depth of clarity  that was more than 
would be normally requested. So Im not entirely  surprised that the information Zurich gave 
to Mr T wasnt always as specific  and pertinent as hed have liked.
Ive also looked  at the form regarding advice that Mr T was sent alongside the cancellation 
terms. It isnt clear  to me why that form was sent to Mr T at that time, or at all  I do wonder 
whether it was sent in error.  It seems to me that it is the sort of form that a sending scheme 
might send to a consumer  where  there  wasnt  a regulatory requirement  for advice to be 
provided. And since Zurich wasnt required to gather  that information from Mr T I dont think  
the absence of a signature space on that form should cause any significant concerns.
As I said earlier,  should I think something had gone  wrong, Id also need to consider whether 
Mr T had lost out as a result.  I havent seen anything that makes me think  Mr T has suffered 
Ref: DRN85293284any financial  loss as a result of the transfer processes. I can accept that he was caused 
some trouble  and upset  by the, occasionally,  poor information he received from Zurich.  But 
I think the payment  Zurich  has already  made to Mr T is more than sufficient to compensate 
him for that. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr T. And he will no doubt be left to 
decide what he wishes to do with the funds  that were returned to R. That isnt a matter for 
this decision. The exemption that Zurich provided to Mr T to allow  the transfer of funds under 
its normal minimum expired some time ago. If Mr T still wishes to move  his funds to Zurich  
he will need  to discuss with it whether it is still prepared to accept the transfer.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Zurich Assurance  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529328