K820x#14complaint
Mr S complaint is about advice from SVS Securities Plc (SVS), from around 2013 onwards, 
to invest in the Alternative Investment  Market  (AIM),  about its alleged failure to monitor his 
investments, about principal transaction prices and about the performance of his 
investments.
background
SVS says his complaint began as one about  investment  performance  and about  his 
assertion that he ought to have been given lower prices in principal related transactions with 
SVS in recognition of him being  a long term and loyal client.  By the time the matter  was 
addressed by one of the investigators in this service, it was as summarised above.
SVS disputes the complaint. Overall it says its advice to Mr S was suitable; that the 
investments matched his investor and risk profile,  and that he was fully aware  of the risks; 
that he already  held AIM shares elsewhere and transferred them over to SVS in 2014;  that 
the losses he incurred  were out of its control and were within his capacity for loss; that its 
charges and prices  were  transparent at all times; and that it was not obliged to give a 
concession in the principal transaction prices.
Mr S appears to have  calculated that his investments, advised by SVS, made a loss of 
around £30,000 between 2015  and 2016; a loss of around £116,000 between  2016 and 
2017; and a loss of around £47,000  between 2017 and 2018. He also says that SVS broke  
promises to realign his portfolio  and to recover some of his losses.
The investigator concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. In the main, he said as 
follows:
Know Your Client (KYC) evidence shows that around the time of the investments    
Mr S was retired;  he had prior experience,  of over 15 years, in the stock markets 
(including AIM investments, with around £200,000 already invested in AIM shares);  
his net worth was around £4 million (with almost £1 million of this being reasonably 
liquid in shareholdings) and his annual income  was around £250,000; his objective 
was to maximise capital growth  and he was aware of, and agreed with, the higher 
level of risks in investing in smaller  companies shares.
The terms of business  which Mr S would have  agreed before he could proceed  with 
the account  gave  him sufficient warning  about  higher risks in AIM investments; they 
confirmed that SVS provided an advisory  service which  required  his consent before 
any transaction; they confirm that SVS did not provide a discretionary managed 
service to him; and they confirm that whilst  SVS may use its discretion to contact him 
for new investments  or to suggest  changes to his holdings it was not obliged  to 
monitor or review his investments, it remained his responsibility to monitor/review  his 
own investments.
Mr S asserts that the reality of the relationship  was such that SVS did undertake  to 
monitor his investments, to notify him when his investments had 20% or more  in 
gains and/or to sell them on his behalf at that point. However, the balance of 
evidence does  not support this and there is no record of SVS making such  an 
undertaking. In telephone call recordings such evidence  could not be found and the 
same applies  to evidence of SVS guaranteeing performance  that also could not be 
found. SVS might  have taken Mr S portfolio  into account when  providing  advice to 
him but there  was no obligation  upon  it to monitor the portfolio.
Ref: DRN87276192Investment performance, in isolation, is not something he would generally hold a firm 
responsible for. However, in terms of suitability of the investments and in terms of   
Mr S overall investor profile (including his investment experience), it was not 
unreasonable or inappropriate  for him to have been  recommended AIM shares in 
pursuit of his capital  maximisation  objective.  The invested accounted for less than 
10% of his total assets and around 25% of his liquid assets.  Furthermore, evidence 
suggests that SVS recommendations were reasoned  and were  sufficiently discussed 
with Mr S.
Mr S did not accept this outcome. He said it relies  on terms of business  which  he cannot 
recall receiving and considers to be irrelevant in the context of the reality of the relationship 
he had with SVS  in which, he says, it was obliged to monitor  his investments. He does not 
dispute the findings about his experience and investor profile  or about  the manner of SVS  
advice to him  but he considers that they too are irrelevant  to the issue of responsibility for 
the significant loss he has incurred as a result of the matters  he alleges against  SVS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand SVS decision to note the point that Mr S complaint began as one about 
investment performance  and principal transaction prices. I too consider that, based  on the 
focus of his main  submissions, Mr S complaint  is mainly about his investments performance 
and the significant loss he has incurred  from them.
As the investigator  suggested, investment performance would not be a matter this service  
determines in isolation. However,  the wider  matters about the suitability of Mr S AIM 
investments and about his allegation  that SVS failed to monitor his investments are within 
our remit  and I address  them below.  In summary,  I reached  the same  conclusions expressed 
by the investigator   the investments were not unsuitable for Mr S and SVS was not obliged 
to monitor his investments.
With regards to the matter  of principal transaction prices, I do not consider that SVS has 
done anything  wrong. There is documentary evidence  in the terms of business and the 
charges related appendix to those  terms, and in the contract notes for Mr S transactions   
that the arrangements for charges and commission  were transparent and agreed from the 
outset and that the contract notes were  equally transparent in disclosing mark-ups  in the 
transactions (mark-ups which were provided  for in the terms) and in distinguishing principal 
transactions from agency transactions (including  the charges and mark-ups that applied  
respectively). If, as it appears,  Mr S considers that his standing with SVS (in terms of being a 
long-term and loyal client) meant he ought to have  been given a price concession, the key 
issue is that there appears to be no evidence that he was contractually entitled to one and 
no evidence that one was agreed.
The terms of business
I appreciate that, due to the length  of time over which Mr S has been  a client  of SVS,  it is 
possible for him not to recall this document. Nevertheless, I consider that the terms of 
business we have been provided with was agreed between the parties at the outset. It is 
arguably implausible that his account would have  been opened and would  have been  active  
(for many  years) without the terms of business having been agreed  between the parties.
Ref: DRN87276193Suitability of Mr S AIM investments
In straightforward terms, I am persuaded by Mr S overall investor  profile as summarised in 
the background section above  including his prior experience and financial exposure to AIM 
investments  to conclude  that the AIM investments recommended by SVS were  not 
unsuitable for him.
There is evidence that the risks were made  known to him at the outset and in the course  of 
the recommendations. They were  arguably familiar to him, given  that he had previous AIM 
investment experience. There is KYC related evidence from 2013 and 2015 showing  that he 
had the appetite for risk and capacity for loss that matched  the recommendations that were 
made to him and the same  evidence suggests that additional AIM investments were  part of 
his preferences.
Like the investigator, I too have not seen evidence of a particular recommendation(s)  that 
was reckless or lacked  reasoning. The investigator queried a particular set of transactions  
that initially appeared to lack such reasoning  as it involved the opening  and closing of a 
trade in the same  asset on the same day with the appearance of a resulting loss. However, it 
transpired that it was a rolled over trade and that the first transaction  had the effect  of 
closing/selling the asset, which had been  bought  on a previous date, and taking profit, and 
then the second transaction bought back the asset on the basis  of positive prospects. I do 
not dismiss the negative  outcomes and significant loss that resulted from a number of the 
transactions recommended by SVS, but I have not seen enough evidence to conclude that 
such outcomes were foreseeable or that the recommendations were unsuitable.
Monitoring Mr S investments
I consider that Mr S description of his relationship with SVS is sincere, in terms of SVS 
advising on his existing  investments  in addition to new investments. I do not doubt  him in 
this respect and it is noteworthy that the terms of business provide  that SVS may sometimes 
give such advice. However,  I am not persuaded that there was an agreed obligation upon 
SVS  agreed  explicitly or implicitly  to monitor Mr S investments and/or to act upon 
investments which  had appreciated by 20% or more.
The terms of business are reasonably clear in limiting SVS service to advice. They say a 
separate agreement  was required  for a discretionary managed  service  and I have seen  no 
evidence of such a separate agreement with Mr S. In addition, management related 
fees/charges were applicable  where  SVS provided a management  related service.  If the 
obligation alleged  by Mr S was agreed between the parties it appears implausible that there 
would not have been a corresponding arrangement for Mr S to pay and for SVS to receive  
management related  fees. I have not seen evidence that such  fees were  charged or paid.
The conclusion that follows is that SVS operated within its discretion to advise Mr S on his 
existing investments from time to time  as something that, as stated in the terms, it may do 
but was not obliged to do  and that Mr S retained primary and sole responsibility to monitor 
his own investments. It is possible that Mr S might have formed  the impression that the 
advice he received from SVS on his existing investments was a basis to expect  it to monitor 
those investments, but the point remains that there  is a lack of evidence  to show,  on 
balance, that SVS undertook this as its obligation and/or agreed (expressly or implicitly) to 
do so.
Ref: DRN87276194my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8727619