K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains TSB Bank plc (TSB) failed to provide her with bank statements after two 
requests and this has resulted in financial loss to her. Ms M is assisted in bringing her 
complaint to this service  by her partner  Mr S.
background
Ms M brought her complaint to us as she hadnt  received  the historical statements shed 
requested on a number of occasions from TSB. Nor did she receive a response  to her 
complaint about  this.
TSB told us there was no record of statements being requested  in October 2018  as Ms M 
said. The first request they could trace was on 14 December 2018.  Their Copy Statement 
department dealt with that on 17 December 2018, posting the statements to Ms Ms address 
on file. And on 15 January  2019 copy statements were ordered again. TSB also said Ms Ms 
account wasnt a current account but a savings one operated  on a passbook. Statements 
werent generated for this account as the passbook was kept up to date in branch and 
historic books were kept for a customers records. They  also told us they hadnt responded 
to Ms Ms complaint from 21 December 2018 due to a backlog  of recent complaints.
Our investigator appreciated that not receiving  the statements put Ms M in a difficult position. 
But he thought  that, other  than the follow up in December 2018, he couldnt see any 
evidence to suggest Ms M had followed up from her initial order of the statements placed in 
October 2018. And he thought the damages  could've been mitigated  if she had done so. So 
he thought £150.00 compensation was a fair response to the complaint.
TSB agreed  with the suggested  compensation. Ms M didnt agree. She sent us in further 
information which she said was proof  that the benefits office  wouldnt pay her because  TSB 
would not supply the bank  statements in time.  She said that meant  six months without pay 
which amounted  to £10,800  which shed  lost through TSBs  negligence. And this is nothing 
compared to the amount of stress it had put her and her family under. She asked for an 
ombudsman to review  this case and to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im very sorry to learn of the bereavement 
Ms M suffered last year and about  the health  problems of her partner. I appreciate its been 
a difficult time for her.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in his letter  
giving his opinion  so I wont repeat that here. Theres not a great  deal I can add to what the 
investigators already  told Ms M. I think hes covered most points quite  clearly  and I agree 
with his analysis.
The evidence from TSB satisfies  me Ms M requested historical statements on 14 December 
2018 via telephone banking and told the bank  these had been originally requested in 
October. And although  it seems  that request was actioned by the bank and statements were  
printed and sent to her on 17 December 2018  these werent received. Although I dont think 
its fair to hold TSB responsible for the non delivery of those statements the bank accept that 
Ref: DRN85880182they failed to deal with Ms Ms follow up request on 21 December 2018 when she reported 
that the statements still hadnt been received and also lodged a complaint.
The letter Ms M has given  us about her benefits  form the benefits authority says you are not 
entitled to This is because you have failed to supply the information requested but it 
doesnt detail  what that information  is. So I cant be satisfied this is proof that the benefits 
were stopped because the statements werent available in time as Ms M states. But, even if 
there was evidence to confirm the bank statements were the information outstanding in this 
letter, I dont think it would  alter my decision on this case. And thats because, like the 
investigator I think there are steps  Ms M could have taken to limit her losses  here.
It isnt my role to punish  businesses for making  mistakes; its my role to put consumers back  
into the position that they would have been in if the mistakes hadnt  been made. In putting 
Ms M in that position Ive also got to consider what steps Ms M took to minimise the impact 
of TSBs mistake. Like the investigator  I think she could have done  more when the 
statements didnt arrive  within 10 days of her original request in October  2018.  On Ms Ms 
own evidence two months passed  between  her original request and her chase up call on 14 
December 2019.  
So overall I think the compensation the investigator  has suggested is a fair and reasonable 
settlement for the mistakes made by TSB. Its the sort of award Id have made  had it not 
already been suggested  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this compliant. TSB Bank plc must pay Ms M £150  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8588018