K820x#14complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Aviva Health UK Limited  wouldnt  pay for her varicose vein treatment.
background
Mrs S has private medical insurance through her husbands  employers  group  scheme.
Mrs S saw a consultant  last year about a varicose vein in her left leg which had been present 
for many years but had started to cause severe pain in the previous few months.  The 
consultant had treated a similar problem in her right leg some  years before and had offered 
to treat the left leg at the same time. But Mrs S had refused  as it wasnt  causing  her problem 
at that time.
The consultant recommended treatment  but Aviva  refused to cover it. Aviva  said the policy 
didnt cover treatment for varicose veins in the leg unless certain criteria was met and Mrs S 
didnt meet that criteria.
Mrs S didnt think Avivas decision was fair. She pointed out, via her daughter,  that the NHS 
and NICE  recommends treatment of varicose veins to ease symptoms and other insurers  
would have provided cover. Mrs S got in touch with us when Aviva refused to change its 
position. She also noted she hadnt  received a compensation payment of £100  that Aviva  
had promised in relation  to a data protection breach that occurred in the early stages of the 
claim.
Our investigator didnt  think it was wrong of Aviva to decline the claim. But Mrs S disagreed 
so the case has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I appreciate  Mrs S 
will be disappointed, I dont currently think it was unfair or unreasonable  of Aviva to decline 
her claim. Ill explain why. 
The policy terms and conditions set out what treatment isnt eligible for cover  and that 
includes varicose veins in the leg unless the veins are greater than 3mm in diameter  and any 
of the following applies:
there is established lipodermatosclerosis  or progressive skin changes
there have been recurrent episodes of superficial thrombophlebitis
there is active or healed venous ulceration
Mrs Ss consultant told Aviva that her varicose vein was approximately  10mm  in diameter 
but she didnt  have any of the above three conditions. Mrs S also accepts this was the case.
I appreciate Mrs Ss treatment may have been  covered by other insurers  and Ive considered  
what shes said about the NHS and NICE  guidance.  But insurers  are entitled to limit the 
cover they provide and Mrs Ss treatment  simply isnt covered by Avivas policy.  
As I dont think Aviva  unreasonably declined Mrs Ss claim I cant  fairly tell it to cover any of 
her costs.
Ref: DRN85045082I understand Aviva offered £100  compensation to Mrs S in relation to a data protection 
breach. Mrs S seems  to have accepted this award but was unhappy because she didnt 
receive Avivas cheque.  It looks like Aviva  arranged for it to be sent but it didnt  reach Mrs S. 
I understand Aviva has since  agreed  to reissue  the cheque and Ive not seen anything which 
indicates that Mrs S hasnt yet received it. If she hasnt  then she should contact Aviva in the 
first instance  and they should arrange for the money to get to her promptly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504508