K821x#15Complaint
Miss L complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VFS) wouldnt let her 
reject a faulty car.
Background
In September  Miss L acquired second  hand car funded by a finance  agreement.  It was some 
five months old and had done 2,023 miles. In January 2018 the car alarm started to go off for 
no apparent reason. She also had problems  changing gear. It was taken to the dealer on 12 
February and she says she was told that the alarm had gone  off 15 times while  it was with 
them.
She says that she was told it might be due to her air freshener or trucks passing  close  to it 
and the sensitivity  was reduced. On 26 March  the car was taken  to the dealers  as Miss L 
was still having  problems with the gear change. She asked to reject the car, but was told it 
needed to be inspected by another dealer. 
On 6 June the car broke down and the AA reported  that it had cut out wouldnt start with the 
stop start engaged. The following day the car was taken back to the dealer and a new 
pressure sensor was fitted.  They  also investigated  issues with the MMI and noise from the 
cambelt. The car went back in on 13 June for the gearbox to be checked, but no fault was 
found.
Miss L complained to VFS, but her complaint was rejected. It said the issue with the alarm 
was fixed and no issue was found  with the stop start system  and so it conclude the car was 
fit for purpose.  However, the car broke  down again in July and Miss L had to be rescued by 
the AA. The report notes  the car cutting out and delayed  starting  again  when  the stop start 
system was engaged.  The engine  management  light was on and while  the engine was 
running smoothly multiple fault codes for communication failure were present including  the 
exhaust gas temperature sensor.
The car was taken to the dealer, but no cause could  be found for the engine management 
light being on. They found internal electrical failure on air quality  sensor and replaced this 
with a new one.
The car returned to the garage  on 11 October 2018.  It noted  the car failed to start on three 
different occasions.  A faulty battery was found  to be the reason for this and it was replaced. 
The car broke down  again in late November and was recovered by AA. The report refers to 
the alarm  going  off intermittently but with no fault codes recorded and no obvious  reason for 
it to be triggered.  
The car was recovered by AA again  on 10 December with the same  issue  of the alarm  going 
off intermittently. The AA report  shows the fault couldnt be turned  off. 
On 11 December 2018, a report was produced by the dealer showing the different times the 
alarm was triggered. This shows it was triggered on 10 occasions at different times of the 
day. VFS have sent a document written  by the technician. It shows  no faults were logged  in 
the memory  only in the alarm activation history.
Ref: DRN82111172The report  said the sensitivity was at 100% and this was adjusted  to 50%. It mentioned  this 
issue happened last year and Miss L thought it might  be due to the damp weather and the 
car was tested extensively  in wet conditions but no new activations were recorded.  
Miss L brought  her complaint to this service  where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld. He noted the numerous repairs which had been 
required and for such a new car he queried  its durability. He didnt think  it should  have suffered 
so many issues in the first year or so.
He didnt believe the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of supply because of the 
issue with the alarm  which appeared within six months of the agreement starting. The dealer 
had one opportunity to repair this and this failed. However,  while the matter was being  
considered the car was in an accident and was written off so it couldnt  be rejected. He 
suggested VFS refund Miss Ls deposit  plus one months payment and pay her £500  
compensation. 
VFS didnt  agree and said the report showing the alarm going off didnt mean it was faulty. It 
said no faults were found or reported within six months. It said there  was no independent 
report so we had to rely on Miss Ls testimony and it suggested the AAs reports  were  
presumed assessments and checks  but the dealer  didnt find any issue  with the gearbox.  It 
also noted Miss L had approved repairs and so she had no right to rejection. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
VFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I have set out the events in some detail  because it is worth noting the numerous issues 
faced by Miss L. For such a new car it seems to have  spent  a lot time in the garage  or being 
recovered by the AA. A new car should be durable  and I wouldnt  expect  it to break  down on 
Ref: DRN82111173so many occasions. The dealer wasnt always able to identify the cause  of the failures  and 
took the view there was no issue. On several occasions it effected repairs  such  as changing 
the sensitivity of the alarm system. However  that fault reappeared some months later.
While I appreciate VFS would like to have  had an independent report, as would I, it seems  
that we do have some independent views of the car from the AA reports. It is clear there 
were faults  with the car and Miss L wasnt imagining them. It had to be taken to the garage  
after breaking down.  While I note the garage  wasnt able to identify the cause of these faults 
it shouldnt have broken down in the first place. It was a nearly new car and should have 
been fault free. 
So while the garage wasnt able to identify  the cause it doesnt  mean  the faults didnt occur 
and result in Miss L being frightened to drive the car. Miss L has been consistent and 
credible in her testimony and I have no reason not to believe what  she has said and as I 
have pointed out this has been supported  by the AA reports.
I am also aware that Miss L asked  to reject the car and seems to have been  fobbed  off with 
further repairs so I dont believe she lost her right to reject as result of the actions  of the 
dealer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to:
Refund her deposit plus 8% simple interest from the day it was paid to the date it's 
repaid.
Refund of one month's payment for the time the car has been in the garage. 
Pay £500.00 for the distress and inconvenience Miss L has suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8211117