K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service provided to them after they made a claim on 
their home emergency insurance with Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA).
background
On 3 March 2018 Mr M came home  to find a pipe had burst  in the loft, causing a large  
escape of water. He turned off the stopcock and placed buckets to collect water.  He called 
IPA to make a home  emergency  claim. He was told to expect a call from the emergency  
plumbers within 2 to 4 hours. No call came  and he wasnt kept updated as to when a 
plumber would arrive.  He carried out his own temporary repairs  to the pipe. He says he 
spent around £15 on materials. He didnt receive a call from emergency plumbers until the 
afternoon of 5 March  2018.
It appears that IPA instructed one firm who werent able to do the job, so it was redirected to 
another firm who made the call on 5 March. 
IPA agreed the call-back wasnt within the advised timescales  and that Mr and Mrs M 
werent kept updated. It offered £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
caused. Mr and Mrs M didnt feel this was sufficient,  pointing  out that it was fortunate  that 
Mr M was able to temporarily fix the leak, and if theyd had to call out an emergency  plumber 
they would  have had to pay a considerable cost which IPA would've been liable for. They 
thought IPA should compensate Mr M for two hours of labour. They also said they were  
extremely anxious and distressed to find that they couldnt rely on the home emergency 
cover.
On referral to this service  our investigator  proposed increasing the compensation to £150, 
which IPA agreed to. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt  agree and the matter has been  passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that IPA did provide a poor service  to Mr and Mrs M. The whole purpose  of having 
home emergency cover, with a 24 hour a day, 365 days a year helpline is that the 
policyholder should be able to expect a response in an emergency. I think the timeframe 
given to them, of a 2 to 4 hour response  time was reasonable.
I can understand that on occasions the appointed  contractor might not be able to attend, as 
here. In which case Mr and Mrs M should  have  been  told about the second contractor so 
they could have had a contact number. 
As it happened Mr M was able to carry out a temporary fix to the leak, which  is what  an 
emergency plumber  would have done. But I can understand that Mr and Mrs M were 
disappointed at the service provided, especially as theyd paid to have  the cover under  their 
home policy.
Ref: DRN83047202As our investigator advised, we award compensation for what  happened rather than what  
might have happened. I take into account that Mr M carried out the work  himself, but I wont 
award the cost of his time. Rather  I think it should be considered  as part of the overall award 
for distress and inconvenience.  I wont make a separate  award for materials used but again  
will consider  it as part of the overall  award.
I think the compensation proposed, of a total of £150, by our investigator is fair and 
reasonable. This takes into account  Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment at the service provided 
and Mr Ms time and expense in having  to repair the leak himself. 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Inter Partner  Assistance  SA to pay to Mr and Mrs M £150 
compensation, including the £75 previously offered. If any part of that sum has already been 
paid then it should only pay the balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8304720