K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have stopped  paying  in cheques, payable to 
her daughter, into an account which Mrs L had opened for her for this purpose. At times Mrs 
L has been assisted in bringing  her complaint by her representative Mr N.
background
Mrs L came  to us as she was unhappy about  HSBCs response  to her complaint  for an 
account shed  opened for her daughter. The account was set up to receive payments made 
to her daughter (a minor) for modelling work. Three cheques payable to Mrs Ls daughter  
had been paid in, processed  and credited to the account. But in September  2018  HSBC 
refused to process  a cheque. Mrs L says that HSBC promised to investigate this and then 
failed to return her call. She said shed had to make  numerous calls to them to try and 
understands what was happening before they sent their final response which  cost her time 
and money. And she also thought having to ask the modelling agency for the cheques  to be 
reissued in her name had resulted in less work  being offered to her daughter.
HSBC told Mrs L that her account had been  opened in an adults name on behalf of a child 
and cheques paid into the account  should be in the name of the account  holder and not the 
child beneficiary. HSBC  said it appeared previous cheques payable  to her daughter which  
had cleared successfully had been done  due to an element of human  error  whether that be 
through a lack of checking thoroughly or a lack of product knowledge. HSBC said they were  
concerned they may have given poor guidance to Mrs L when she was looking for a 
childrens account  and when the cheque was returned in September  2018. They  apologised 
and offered £200 compensation which Mrs L declined.
Our investigator thought HSBC had responded fairly to the complaint. They  detailed  the 
errors theyd  made initially  allowing  previous cheques in the name of Mrs Ls daughter to 
be credited to the account  and had explained how to credit the account in the future. The 
investigator thought  moving forward HSBC had removed any confusion there may be and 
she couldnt reasonably say HSBC  shouldve done more at this point. The investigator  also 
thought HSBCs offer of £200 compensation was a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
complaint.
Mrs L didnt agree with the investigator, she felt the original account was set up wrong  as 
she has cheques payable  to her daughter and wants to pay that in. She said this wasnt  
about the money. She wanted  HSBC to see they had done wrong and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the view that 
this isnt a complaint which  I can fairy and reasonably uphold.
Everyone accepts  HSBC made mistakes here and caused Mrs L upset and inconvenience. 
What isnt agreed are the corrective action to be taken and any compensation to be paid. 
HSBC have apologised, explained how and why the problems have occurred  and advised  
how cheques can be paid in. So, I think,  any confusion has been cleared up and Im satisfied 
thats a reasonable response  in the circumstances. The remaining issue I have to decide is 
Ref: DRN80612732the level of compensation. In her complaint form Mrs L asked for compensation of £5000,  
but she now tells us this isnt about  the money.
I accept that HSBCs mistake has caused problems for Mrs L and its taken her sometime  to 
get to the bottom of this. But I cant see theres  been any loss to her. I know  she believes 
theres been a reduction in the amount  of work  offered  to her daughter but there could be 
any number of reasons  for this, so I dont think it would be fair to hold HSBC responsible for 
it. Taking all of that into account  and in light of our general level of awards Im satisfied that 
£200 compensation offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. That hasnt been paid but HSBCs final response letter indicates the offer remains  
open. I shall leave  it to Mrs L to decide  whether to accept it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8061273