K821x#15Complaint
Ms N complains about the charges  debited to her bank account by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) at the end of her hire purchase 
agreement.
Background
In June 2014, Ms N obtained a car through a four year hire purchase agreement with VWFS. 
Towards the end of her agreement, VWFS wrote  to Ms N to set out her options. She decided  
to return the car to VWFS and she understood she had nothing further to pay. But VWFS 
debited her account with £60.
Following an inspection  of the car, she was told by the inspector she would need to pay 
around £500, but she wasnt  made  aware  that shed need to pay VAT on top of this amount. 
When VWFS wrote  to her to say she owed £607.00 she disputed the charge. But VWFS  
debited her account with the full amount.
VWFS agreed to waive some  of the charges for damage, leaving Ms N with £279  to pay. 
She agreed  to pay this amount.
But our adjudicator thought VWFS should pay Ms N £50 compensation for debiting her 
account while she was disputing the charges. And to refund the £60 option to purchase  fee 
because Ms N hadnt purchased the car.
VWFS didnt  agree to refund  the option to purchase fee. It said it was obliged  to charge this 
fee as it is a cost of credit and allows it to sell the car as Ms Ns agent.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Following VWFSs  offer to waive some of the charges for damage, Ms N has agreed to pay 
the reduced amount of £279  as set out in VWFSs  final response to her complaint.
VWFS doesnt seem  to have disputed the adjudicators  recommendation that it pays Ms N 
£50 for debiting her account with the full cost of the damages, even though shed disputed 
the sum she owed. I think this is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
So the only matter  that remains in dispute is the option to purchase  fee of £60. 
I dont agree that the terms and conditions  of the finance agreement explained that the 
option to purchase  fee was due if the vehicle was handed back.  It said:
When you have made all the payments due to us under this Agreement, you will have the 
option of purchasing the Vehicle. You may exercise  this by paying  us the Option to Purchase 
Fee. Until you have exercised this option, the Vehicle will remain  our property.
Its clear that Ms N didnt  exercise her option to purchase the car and, as thats the only point 
at which  the contract  suggests the fee is added, then it wouldnt seem fair to charge  it.
Ref: DRN87024082VWFS told us that during the phone call it had with Ms N to talk about what happened  at the 
end of the agreement, it failed to mention the option to purchase  fee. This doesnt  appear to 
have been communicated to her until VWFS  sent its hand  back letter almost four years after 
the agreement  started  and after Ms N had already told it she wanted to return the car.
Its letter, sent on 24 May 2018,  said that an option to purchase fee would be taken so that 
VWFS could  act as your agent in sale of the vehicle, in order  to settle your finance 
agreement..
But the car remains VWFSs until the purchase  is completed. There was no option taken to 
purchase the car so VWFS cannot  act as the consumers agent in any sale as the car is not 
the consumers  to sell.
So, for the reasons Ive explained,  I agree  with our adjudicator that VWFS should refund its 
charge of £60 because  Ms N didnt exercise her option to purchase the car.
My final decision
My decision  is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should:
1.Refund the option to purchase fee of £60.
2.Pay Ms N £50 for the distress and inconvenience caused  for debiting her account  while  
she was disputing the charges.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8702408