K820x#14complaint
Mr S says HFC Bank Limited (HFC) mis-sold him a regular payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  his credit card repayments.
background
Mr S applied for a credit card by post in 1994. At the same time he took out a PPI policy to 
cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.49 per £100 of the balance on Mr Ss 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 5% of the outstanding balance  for 
up to 12 months per claim if Mr S was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because  he thought there 
wasnt enough information to show Mr S didnt  understand he had a choice in taking the 
policy and thought it wouldve provided  a useful benefit.
Mr S disagrees. He says he didnt  need  the policy and it was generally thought if you took 
PPI you would get the credit card.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied  for by post when Mr S completed a postal application for a credit card.  
Its been over 20 years  since the sale so understandably HFC havent been about  to give us 
a copy of Mr Ss application form or a sample of what was used at the time.  But it has given  
us a copy of an application form from a few months  after Mr S applied for his credit card. 
On this application form the customer was given the option to either select  Yes to take PPI 
or No to decline it. I appreciate I cant say for sure whether this is the application Mr S 
wouldve seen but I think its likely  he wouldve completed something similar and that he had 
PPI because he selected to take it rather than it being added  automatically. 
Because the PPI was taken out through the post I dont think HFC advised 
Mr S to take PPI. What this means  is that HFC didnt recommend PPI to Mr S, it just gave 
him information about PPI and it was up to Mr S to assess his need  in this regard. This 
information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI.
I dont know if HFC did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if HFC did 
give all the information  Mr S needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the policy,  
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know about 
HFC policies:
Ref: DRN85359152He was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr S says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay and says his 
family couldve  helped  to make his credit card payments  if he couldnt work due to 
accident or sickness or if he lost his job. But there is no guarantee his family could help 
and a successful  claim  on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and 
for potentially longer  up to 12 months  per claim.  So I cant see how knowing this 
information wouldve  put him off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr S and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr S on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means HFC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S or refund
any interest and charges  applied to his credit  card that may have been incurred because of
those premiums.
But HFC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
When the policy was sold,  HFC expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr S about that. 
Because HFC didnt  tell Mr S, that was unfair.
To put that right, HFC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what HFC needs to do
HFC has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got that was more
than 50% of the PPI premium. HFC should  also pay back to Mr S any extra  interest
he paid because of that.
HFC should  re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr S the difference between 
what he owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HFC should  also pay Mr S 8%* simple
interest (15% before April 1993) if Mr S paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so HFC Bank  Limited  does not have to pay back all of the
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HFC Bank Limited does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share  it
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN85359153Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8535915