K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  unfairly increased her home insurance 
premium mid-term.
background
Miss M previously held a separate home  insurance policy with Tesco.  In 2017 she contacted  
Tesco to ask whether  she was covered  for her pet soiling her carpet. She was told her policy 
didnt cover this.
Miss M completed  a new home insurance  application online  through  a third party  in 
November 2018.  Tesco contacted Miss M in January  2019;  they said Miss M should have 
declared the incident in 2017 when setting  up her new policy.  Because  of this Tesco  said the 
policy details needed to be amended, her annual premium would increase and an admin fee 
would be charged.  Tesco  later waived the admin fee as a gesture of goodwill.
Miss M didnt think it was fair she had to declare an incident when she wasnt  covered for it - 
and only made an enquiry. A complaint was raised with Tesco.
Tesco said when setting  up the policy Miss M was asked  to confirm if she had any incidents, 
losses or claims in the last five years. They said if Miss M had mentioned  the incident in 
2017 when setting up the policy, the premium would have been different. But because it 
wasnt, the premium had to be adjusted mid-term to include it.
Our Investigator  said the question  completed  by Miss M on the third party website referred  to 
any claims or losses suffered.  But the statement of fact sent to Miss M didnt fairly reflect the 
information Tesco had asked for  as it only referred  to claims within the last three  years. So 
they didnt think  it was fair for Tesco to impose  an additional premium on Miss M and 
recommended the complaint be upheld. To put things right they said Tesco  should  refund 
the additional premiums paid plus interest and pay Miss M £50 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Tesco didnt  agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case. They  said Miss M 
contacted them in 2017 and asked them to consider the costs  involved with a loss. This 
meant Miss M had made a claim, the questions asked  in the statement of fact were  accurate 
and Miss M should have  contacted them to update  the policy.
The complaint has now passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN86956252When Miss M contacted  Tesco in 2017 she was told the soiling by her pet wasnt  covered on 
her policy.  Ive not seen  anything  to suggest Miss M started any type of claims process  with 
Tesco  as she wasnt covered. So its reasonable Miss M wouldnt consider this as a claim.
Miss M set the policy up on the third party website and she was asked  if she had made any 
home insurance claims or suffered any losses in the last five years. When  Tesco sent 
Miss M the statement of fact it was her opportunity to confirm whether the information given 
during the online process was right - and correct anything that was wrong. 
But the statement  of fact asked if Miss M, or anyone she lived with, had made any claims in 
the last 3 years connected with her home insurance, a different question.  I think the question 
would only suggest  a customer had to disclose  claims  that had been  made  - and not losses 
and/or damage. As Miss M hadnt  made  a claim in 2017 I think  its reasonable shed have 
believed the question to be answered  correctly and I think  she answered it truthfully.
Having considered everything, I dont think Miss M mis-represented her position and 
because of this, I think  Tesco have acted unfairly  in increasing Miss Ms premium. To put 
things right, Tesco should remove the additional  premium charged and refund this to Miss M 
if shes already paid it. I also think Tesco should  pay £50 for the inconvenience caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
To put things right, I direct  Tesco Underwriting  Limited to:
Remove the additional premium charged and, if Miss M has paid this, provide her 
with a refund  
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year1 
Pay Miss M £50 for the inconvenience  caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
1 If Tesco Underwriting  Limited considers that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from the interest, they should tell Miss M how much its taken off. They should also give 
Miss M a certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8695625