K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him payment  
protection insurance (PPI).
background 
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision,  which  I issued in 
July 2019. That decision is attached  here and forms part of my final decision.
I invited both parties to comment  or submit further  evidence before I made my final decision.
Essentially, both parties accepted my decision,  with some further comments which I describe 
in my findings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained, both parties accepted the outcome of my decision. Nationwide have said that 
it will make an offer of redress fully in accordance with our guidelines.
Mr T queried  that I had not included redress from the start of the policy  in 2000, but had only 
directed it from March 2007  when Mr T amended the policy. 
The starting position for my consideration of this case  was that Nationwide had already 
made an offer of redress  in line with our guidelines for the period from 2000 to 2007. I did not 
consider the elements of mis-sale that Nationwide had already  accepted  and offered suitable 
redress for. It is possible that I may have come to a different conclusion, so it was not in Mr 
Ts interests for me to reconsider  an element for which  Nationwide had already agreed to 
pay compensation. And had I considered it and come to the same conclusion  as Nationwide,  
the compensation would  have been the same.
I am satisfied that Nationwide will honour their initial offer of informal resolution for the period 
2000 to 2007 and Mr T will receive  redress for all of the premiums he paid in line with our 
guidance from 2000 to present. In the very unlikely  event  that Nationwide does not pay 
compensation as they had previously offered, Mr T can ask this service to review  the redress  
settlement. 
putting things right
If my decision becomes final Nationwide should put Mr T in the position  hed be in now if he 
hadnt had PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and 
Nationwide should:
Pay Mr T the amount  he paid each month  for the PPI from March 2007   
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN85542132If Mr T made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide  can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Ts complaint and direct Nationwide Building  Society  to pay compensation 
as described in putting things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85542133Provisional decision
background
Mr T took out a mortgage  with Nationwide  in 1999.  Accident  and sickness cover was added in error to 
his account in December 2000. Mr T says he thought he had unemployment cover and was shocked 
to discover that he didnt  when  wanted to make  a claim  when he was made redundant in January 
2007. Nationwide has accepted  the error in setting up the accident and sickness elements of the 
cover and has offered to repay all of the premiums  Mr T paid and statutory interest too, up until March 
2007.
In March 2007  Mr T applied for unemployment cover. An amendment was made  to the existing 
accident and sickness policy to incorporate  the unemployment cover, and to increase the benefit 
payable in the event  of a successful claim. 
Mr T says that he wasnt  eligible for the unemployment  cover  and that Nationwide  knew this. He says 
he lost out as a result  of Nationwides actions.
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ts complaint  should be upheld. Nationwide disagrees, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. 
As already  explained, Nationwide has agreed to pay back all of the premiums for the accident and 
sickness policy from 2000  to 2007. But it hasnt agreed to pay back the premiums from 2007 onwards. 
It says effectively that at this point Mr T agreed to buy a policy including accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover  and that it was suitable for him. 
Mr T says that he had no need for the accident and sickness elements. He already had an income 
protection policy which  gave him similar  cover. Although when hed first discussed his mortgage 
application with Nationwide in October 1999 hed agreed to take it, this was superseded by further 
instructions that he didnt  want it, and it wasnt set up at the time the mortgage started  in December  
1999. However, it would appear that Nationwide  thought theyd made a mistake in not setting  it up 
and incepted  the policy a year later in December  2000. Nationwide acknowledge that there is no 
evidence that Mr T wanted  the policy when Nationwide set it up. 
In January 2007 Mr T was made redundant. He says he thought he had unemployment cover  with 
Nationwide so made contact to try to make a claim. Nationwide hasnt got a record of this contact  
although it does have a record of an unrelated insurance claim he made around the same time - but I 
am satisfied  that Mr T was made redundant so it seems reasonable to think  Mr T may have made  this 
contact. It is at this point Mr T would  have become aware that he had accident and sickness cover,  if 
he didnt already  know.  
I havent seen any evidence in the rest of the paperwork  provided by both parties  that Mr T either 
applied for, or made it clear  that he wanted, unemployment cover when PPI cover was first discussed  
in 1999. But as Mr T was unemployed for only a week he wouldnt have been able to make a claim 
under the policy anyway, so he didnt lose out even if he should have  had the cover. 
Ref: DRN85542134Mr T didnt choose to cancel the accident and sickness cover at this point.  Its not clear  why he didnt. 
Mr T says he was actively contesting the cover from January  2007 but I havent seen any evidence 
of this until January 2012 when he made his formal complaint to Nationwide.  
Mr T says he approached  Nationwide in March  2007 to sort out his unemployment cover. He says 
that he told Nationwide that he had been temporarily out of work  in January of that year. The 
unemployment cover  had an eligibility term which required Mr T to have been in continuous 
employment for the six months prior to taking the cover, which Mr T did not meet. Mr T says that he 
was told that as it was only an amendment to the policy  the eligibility terms would  be waived. He 
explains that this is why he retained  the accident  and sickness cover, despite not wanting it.
In its first answer  to Mr T, Nationwide  said that it was a completely new policy and that the first policy  
had been cancelled. Nationwide now agree that the original accident and sickness policy was 
amended to include unemployment cover and the benefit level was increased too. Nationwide  
explains that their internal  systems  do not allow  for changes in the type of cover to be recorded as 
amendments, but that the policy was considered  to be the same as the one started in December 
2000. 
I havent seen any evidence which confirms that Mr T was told the eligibility requirement would  be 
waived. Nor is there evidence that Mr T explained his employment situation to Nationwide  in March 
2007. Either way,  I cant be satisfied that in the event of a claim Mr T wouldve been able to meet the 
eligibility requirements or that an otherwise legitimate  claim wouldve  been paid. Nationwide argues  
that as the policy was an amendment rather than a whole new policy that Mr T wouldve  been 
covered, because when the original accident  and sickness cover started  Mr T wouldve  met the 
requirements. 
But I dont accept Nationwides argument here. If eligibility  requirements were  always rolled back to 
the original  inception  of the policy then Mr T couldve added unemployment cover at the point of 
redundancy and still have been  covered.  And I dont  think  this wouldve been the case. Ive also 
looked at the rest of the policy document, as sometimes the eligibility requirements can conflict with 
requirements when making a claim.  But theres nothing in the explanation of how to make an 
unemployment claim that would  suggest Mr T couldve made  a claim  without having been in 
continuous employment in the six months preceding the addition of his unemployment cover  rather  
than preceding any claim.
So I dont think Mr T wouldve been able to make  a successful  claim on the unemployment part of the 
policy and as a result he lost out.
Ive also thought  about  the accident and sickness cover from January  2007.  I dont understand why 
Mr T didnt cancel it as soon  as he became  aware of it if he didnt want  it, although  I appreciate he 
may not have  felt able to make financial decisions  at that point  in his life. Mr T has given an 
explanation of why he retained  the accident and sickness cover when  he applied for the 
unemployment cover   because he says Nationwide  advised him that if he added unemployment 
cover to his existing  accident and sickness cover he would meet the eligibility requirements. 
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any evidence  from this part of the sale,  and in its absence  I 
think Mr Ts explanation is reasonable. 
Nationwide acknowledge that Mr T shouldnt  have had accident and sickness cover  from 2000 to 
2007 and have offered  redress on this basis. Nationwide argues that by March  2007 Mr T wanted 
accident and sickness cover and so it wont refund those later premiums.  I dont think this is fair. Mr T 
has explained  why he retained the accident and sickness cover  that is, to ensure he met the 
eligibility criteria for the unemployment cover  he actually wanted. And Nationwide hasnt been able to 
provide any records  in relation to the sale of the unemployment  cover for me to understand what  
happened. In the absence of this, it seems reasonable for me to rely on Mr Ts testimony on this point.
So, in summary and on balance,  I think Mr T lost out as a result of Nationwides shortcomings. 
Ref: DRN85542135putting things  right
If my decision becomes final Nationwide  should put Mr T in the position hed be in now if he hadnt  
had PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr T the amount he paid each month for the PPI from March 2007  
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
is 8% a year.
If Mr T made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr T a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to uphold  Mr Ts complaint. If my decision becomes  final I will direct Nationwide 
Building Society to pay compensation  as Ive described  above in putting  things right.  
I will consider any further representations or evidence provided by either party 5 August 2019 before I 
make my final decision.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8554213