K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  wrongly  advised  him to invest 
in a guaranteed capital bond.
background
In 2007, Mr B inherited £87,000. He approached NatWest for financial  advice and met with 
an advisor, who carried out a fact find. This established that Mr B was self-employed  with a 
net income of £1,200 a month, £200 of which was disposable. He had no other  investments 
and limited previous  experience in the financial sector.
The fact find records that Mr B was a few years from state retirement  age and in good  
health. He wanted to discuss investing £50,000 of his inheritance,  reserving the rest in easy 
access accounts for emergencies and day to day needs. It also notes that Mr B was looking 
to achieve a potentially higher rate of return than savings accounts could offer and that he 
was a relatively cautious investor, ranked as two out of five on NatWests  risk scale. The 
description of this category says:
My aim is to achieve greater returns over the longer-term than interest  paying  accounts, and 
I am therefore prepared  to accept the risk of possibly losing some of my money and to see 
some fluctuations in value.
To achieve the above I will consider  investing  in the following types  of areas: -
* Funds that invest  in a wide range of assets,  including shares but which aim to follow  a 
relatively cautious approach to risk: or
* Funds that invest  in asset types that are expected to be less volatile in value than shares: 
or
* A product or fund that aims to offer a minimum amount at a set point in time
The advisor recommended investing the full £50,000 in a guaranteed capital bond, which 
had an investment term of 42 months. The bond tracked the FTSE 100 and if the market 
rose by more than 3.1% over the investment  term, Mr B could  make  up to 25% return. If 
however the market didnt rise as much or fell, Mr B would only receive  his capital back.
Mr B has complained that this investment was unsuitable as he didnt fully understand the 
risks and what other options there  might  have been  for him. NatWest didnt agree the overall 
recommendation was unsuitable, but did feel that tying up over half of his available assets  in 
one product was inappropriate. It therefore  offered  a refund on the assumption  that only 
£34,800 should have been invested  in the guaranteed capital bond, with the remaining 
£15,800 being put into a no risk alternative such as a bank account.
Mr B didnt agree with NatWests findings and referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators reviewed it and found  that the recommendation was unsuitable. They said 
NatWest should  pay compensation.
NatWest didnt accept  this. As agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaints been referred 
to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN82378982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Mr B was an inexperienced investor  with a one-off lump sum of money to invest. Hes been 
clear that he wasnt prepared to accept any risk to his capital and this is reflected in both the 
fact find and the suitability letter from the time.  He was also looking for a better  return than 
could be obtained  from savings accounts.  I appreciate these are difficult  aims to balance,  but 
from everything Ive seen I think the preservation of capital was Mr Bs primary concern.
However, I dont think the guaranteed capital bond  was the best way of achieving either of 
Mr Bs goals.  The nature of the bond  means  the FTSE 100 would have to perform very well 
in order to make any return at all and exceptionally well to offer returns  above  other  fixed  
rate bonds  (considering  the Bank of England base rate was over 5% at the time). Should 
Mr B make no return, the spending power  of his capital would be reduced by inflation  over 
the 42 months, resulting in a real term loss. I cant see that this was clearly explained to 
Mr B.
The suitability letter doesnt  suggest  that alternative  options were discussed, other than a 
stocks and shares ISA which Mr B declined as it didnt offer a guaranteed  return  of capital. 
NatWest has said it didnt  offer fixed rate bonds at the rate of 5.9% interest (as Mr Bs 
representatives have  suggested) and in any event Mr B was aware of other providers and 
had the opportunity to shop around. 
Im not persuaded by this argument. While Mr B may have had opportunity to look at other 
financial service providers, he was inexperienced  and reliant on the advice from NatWest. 
I would have expected the bank to discuss its full product  range, including  those bonds it did 
offer, and give a clear  comparison. I havent seen anything to suggest this happened. Had it 
done so, I think  its likely Mr B would have declined the guaranteed capital bond  and 
invested in a vehicle which both protected his capital and offered a return.
putting things right
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr B's circumstances  and objectives when he invested. 
Ref: DRN82378983what should  NatWest do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  NatWest  must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below1.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Guaranteed 
Capital  
Bondmaturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr B wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr B's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr B would have invested only in 
a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have obtained  
with little risk to their capital.
1 If National Westminster Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr B a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN82378984The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
National Westminster Bank Plc should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr B in a clear,  
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 June 2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8237898