K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Ms H are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE wont  pay their landlord 
insurance claim for malicious damage  to their rented property.
background
In October  2017 Miss H and Ms H rented their property to tenants.  The rent was paid 
through a letting agency. In May 2018 the police raided the premises  and arrested the 
person there (not one of the tenants) for criminal damage in connection with the setting up of 
a cannabis farm. That person was later convicted  in criminal proceedings. The tenants  
werent able to be traced and werent charged.  
The property had suffered considerable damage  by being altered for the purposes of setting 
up a cannabis farm. There was substantial structural damage caused  throughout the 
property where holes had been  cut in the walls,  floors and ceilings and brickwork for 
ventilation pipes, holes  for electrical wire and smashed glass  in the windows. Several  
internal doors had been removed and were missing. There was severe damage to furniture,  
blinds and carpets. The power had to be cut from outside, resulting in a £3,000 cost paid to 
the utility company for reinstatement.
After some investigation Great Lakes advised that it wouldnt be paying  the claim.  This was 
first of all because  it considered that the damage wasnt malicious,  rather  it related to 
alterations carried out to construct the cannabis  farm. Secondly it said that the tenants were 
likely aware  of the damage being  carried out. The rent had continued to be paid and Miss H 
and Ms H were unaware anything was wrong until the police raid. It said the person  was 
likely to have been invited onto the premises by the tenants so was lawfully there. As the 
cover for malicious damage and vandalism  had an exclusion for any tenant  or person 
lawfully on the premises, it advised  it wouldnt be paying the claim.
It was established  that there was also an escape of water. Miss H and Ms Hs plumber said 
this was unrelated  to the cannabis farm. Great Lakes agreed  to pay for that  part of the claim 
for £5,500  net of the excess.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the damage  was malicious. However  he 
said that Great Lakes  had acted reasonably in declining the claim as the person responsible  
was likely to have been there  lawfully  at the invitation of the tenants.
Miss H and Ms H objected to this, also pointing out that because of Great  Lakes delay in 
advising them of its decision they werent  aware the power had been  cut until mid-October  
leading to another seven  weeks delay and loss of rent in getting it reinstated.  They  said that 
the person there was an illegal sub tenant so was on the property unlawfully.
Our investigator maintained his view, and the matter has been  referred  to me for further 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
malicious damage
Ref: DRN85045612The policy term says:
We cover  Your  Buildings against  loss or damage caused by the following  insured perils:
7. Malicious damage  or vandalism.
Excluding
a) loss or damage whilst the Buildings are Unoccupied for 60 days or more.
b) by any Tenant or person lawfully on the Property
I dont have any doubt that deliberately damaging a property in order  to cultivate cannabis is 
a malicious act  it was done purely in furtherance of a criminal act, and was done without 
any consideration for the damage  caused. Smashing of windows,  removal  of carpets and 
damage to the furniture  seem to me to be purely  malicious.
person lawfully on the property
With regard to whether  the person responsible  for the damage was lawfully  on the property, 
a number of points have been  put forward by Miss H:
Because the person  there was an illegal sub tenant (prohibited  by the tenancy 
agreement) he wasnt lawfully on the premises.
The tenants havent been  traced so they were likely to have been using fraudulent 
papers so were  there illegally  themselves
The person  charged  had no connection with the tenants and denied  all knowledge of 
them.
He likely broke into the premises, the alarm  system and electrics had been tampered  
with, as had all the locks.
Rent was outstanding for the last month (possibly two months)  and prior to that had been 
provided in cash  unknown to the landlord via unknown  sources  i.e. it was not provided by 
the named tenant  nor the person arrested.
The problem is we dont  know the full circumstances as to why the person was there  and 
much of what Miss H says is speculation. And a person cant  be an illegal sub tenant whilst 
at the same  time having  no connection with the tenant. We do know  that the rent was paid 
up to April 2018 and no rent arrears were reported prior to the police raid. And while it may 
have been paid in cash, the agents appear  to have been satisfied that all was in order (they  
told the loss adjusters that the tenant paid in cash), at least  up until an inspection  in 
January 2018.  
Whilst the person  convicted may have  denied all knowledge  of the tenants his evidence  is 
not likely  reliable. I have  to decide  this matter on what I think is most likely to have 
happened. And I think its most likely that the tenants were in the property and had 
knowledge that the third person was there. They  may have been  complicit in the damage or 
may have  just allowed him to be there.  So the fact that he went on to commit a criminal 
offence doesnt alter the fact that he was likely to have been invited there in the first place. 
So I think that Great Lakes can reasonably  rely on the exclusion to the malicious damage 
cover to decline the claim.
delay
Miss H and Ms H complain that Great Lakes delayed in making its decision. This case  
required a fair bit of investigation, including assessing and inspecting the considerable 
Ref: DRN85045613damage, making investigations with the agents  and referring to the underwriters for a final 
decision. During that time it was made clear to Miss H and Ms H that policy  liability  hadnt 
been accepted. The decision was communicated to them in mid-August 2018, which  I think 
was reasonable  in the circumstances of the case.
Im not sure why Miss H said they didnt  know the power had been cut until mid-October. It 
was up to her to inspect  the property herself. I note that she advised  Great  Lakes shed been 
at the property in late August 2018. So I dont think any delay in advising of the claim 
decision prejudiced  Miss H and Ms Hs ability to get the property  dealt with.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Ms H 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504561