K820x#14complaint
Mr P feels  that Lloyds Bank Plc has treated him unfairly in the way it changed his credit limit 
on his credit card and other associated issues.
background
Mr P found  himself in financial difficulty from December 2017 for a significant period of time. 
He discussed  his situation regularly  with Lloyds and particularly when his finances improved 
in December 2018. At this time Lloyds  offered him the choice of either freeze interest and 
charges and pay off the debt over time. Or reinstate his card having done an income  and 
expenditure analysis. Mr P chose to reinstate the card. He made  payments towards it and 
then on the 14th February 2019 Lloyds told him it was reducing his credit limit. Mr P feels he 
was duped into reinstating the card and is worried he wont  actually be able to use the card 
as he feels that whenever he reduces the outstanding balance Lloyds will lower his credit 
limit accordingly. So Mr P complained.
Lloyds said it hasnt  done anything wrong.  It says it can do what it did because its agreed  in 
the terms and conditions which Mr P agreed. It says it reduced the limit because it got further 
information from a credit reference agency  at the time which  meant it changed its position 
regarding the risk level Mr P posed  regarding his finances. Mr P didnt agree so he 
complained to this service.
The investigator did not agree with Mr P and said Lloyds  response was reasonable. As Mr P 
remains unhappy his complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint. 
Ive seen no evidence  of Lloyds planning to reduce the credit  limit when  in discussion with 
Mr P originally. It has pointed to receiving information from credit agencies  which  meant it 
changed its view of the risk Mr P represented.  So I dont think  he was duped  into reinstating 
the card as he suggests.
Ive considered the agreement between Lloyds and Mr P and Im satisfied it can reduce the 
credit limit if it wants to. I can also see it can limit his spending also.  So I dont think it has 
done anything  wrong. And although I understand Mr Ps position I can also appreciate why 
Lloyds or any card provider might  chose to limit spend in advance of reducing the credit limit. 
I can see he did get sufficient notice with regard to the limit. I can also see Lloyds can 
change the interest  rate as well.
Many of these decisions are interwoven with Lloyds right to make commercial  decisions 
which this service will not interfere with. And these arent just broad commercial decisions 
but also the commercial  decisions  it makes  regarding its individual  relationships  with its 
customers such as Mr P.
Ref: DRN80558662So all in all I dont think Lloyds has done  anything  wrong. But I can well understand how 
events look especially seeing  that Mr P has evidently tried throughout to keep Lloyds  
informed and discuss with it his options.
And although Lloyds has reduced his available but unused credit this is Lloyds money  and 
as such its commercial decision. Mr P hasnt  suffered a financial loss. I dont think  at any 
stage hes been  misled. I can also see Lloyds has waived interest as well so I think it has 
treated him fairly.
I should address  a couple of Mr Ps comments.
Mr P has pointed  out that Lloyds staff have blamed  computers for changing his 
lending. I can imagine  this to be galling but Lloyds is allowed to make its commercial  
decisions in the way it chooses. And ultimately these computer decisions are working 
within parameters set by those at Lloyds for managing its commercial  positions.
As the Investigator  said later changes in limit and interest  rate are for another 
complaint. I would note though I have found  the terms  allowed the original changes in 
terms.
Mr P has noted that he doesnt really have any available credit  to spend which makes 
having the card have  little use. But Lloyds has always had this commercial right to 
alter its criteria as it wishes.  But it is also worth  remembering  that Mr P owes  Lloyds 
money that it has lent him. And if it chooses  to tighten its lending  to Mr P it is allowed 
to do so within its commercial decisions.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mr P wants to hear.  But Im not persuaded that Lloyds 
has done anything  it shouldnt have. Consequently  I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8055866