K822xcomplaint
Mr K, represented by his mother, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) offered 
Mr K a credit card with a credit limit of £4,200 and increased his overdraft limit on his current 
account six times in the space of one month.  She says this was irresponsible of Clydesdale.
background 
Mr K went  into his branch  and he was offered a credit card.  He applied there and then and 
he was given a credit limit of £4,200.  The bank  say Mr K told it hed had a job for two years 
although in fact hed only had it two months.
His mother says the bank should have  been aware  Mr K was a vulnerable adult, by the way 
he presented himself and his demeanour,  and considered more carefully if it was appropriate 
to offer him a credit card. She also says that Mr Ks literacy and numeracy skills would have  
meant that additional  help would have been needed completing the application form.
Mr K made 58 cash withdrawals from his credit  card into his current  account over the period 
of three  weeks in August to September 2017. On 23 August, Mr K made six cash 
withdrawals totalling  £200 from his credit  card, and deposited some  of the cash in his current 
account. His mother thought this should have flagged as unusual activity on the account.
Clydesdale also increased Mr Ks overdraft limit six times in one month. Mr Ks mother says 
this aggravated  Mr Ks financial situation.  The overdraft limits were requested by Mr K to 
help until payday.  Mr K was declined the third overdraft increase in five days because of the 
frequency of requests.
Mr Ks mother complained to Clydesdale  on his behalf. It said that the decision to lend 
£4,200 was not irresponsible. It considered  Mr Ks income - including  how long he had been  
employed and his other credit commitments - and decided that the lending  was affordable.
Our investigator thought Clydesdale had acted  responsibly in giving Mr K a credit card. The 
information provided to it by Mr K led it to believe that Mr K could afford the lending. He said 
hed had a job for two years, was living with his parents and had no further debts  or 
outgoings.
She considered that Clydesdale should  not have approved further overdraft facilities.  The 
number of requests  in a short period should have alerted Clydesdale  to carry out further 
checks. So her view was that Clydesdale should  refund all the interest  and charges Mr K 
had to pay from when  his overdraft was increased  to £350. And they should pay Mr K £100 
in compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Mr Ks mother on his behalf didnt agree with the investigators decision. She thought  that 
Clydesdale should  write off the outstanding debt because the credit card was mishandled 
and the overdraft issues arose because of the credit card transfers.
Clydesdale disagreed with the decision because it thought it had acted responsibly. The 
matter has now come to me for decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said: 
Ref: DRN81536592I have considered whether the bank  should  have spotted that Mr K may have been a 
vulnerable adult and if so, what  they should  have  done about  it.
Mr Ks mother says that it would have  been  obvious  to anyone  dealing with her son that he 
was a vulnerable  adult.  This is because of his appearance but also because he has 
difficulties with literacy and numeracy.
Clydesdales position is that they cannot  discriminate against  someone because of 
appearance. They  say that they have a duty to treat their customers  equally  and that they 
should not make assumptions about their customers based on appearance.
I absolutely agree with this statement  and I dont think  that Clydesdale  should make 
decisions to lend to a customer based on their appearance, as this would be illegal and 
unfair. But part of providing a service  to the public and complying with legislation is that 
Clydesdale should  consider whether their customers might need help in understanding the 
products they are offering.
Mr Ks mother has said that he would have needed help in completing  the application form 
for the credit card. I was not in branch when  Mr K applied for his credit card so I cant  be 
sure of what happened. And I dont know if the staff dealing with Mr K realised he had 
literacy and numeracy  difficulties and he might not be able to understand key facts 
documents about the credit card. So I dont know  whether  these were  explained  to Mr K.
I have no evidence to show  that Clydesdale knew at that point that Mr K was vulnerable and 
needed extra support to understand  the financial decisions  he was making.
The decision  Ive made in this complaint is not dependent on whether Clydesdale  knew that 
Mr K was a vulnerable  adult. It is not clear  from the evidence when Clydesdale knew. Mr Ks 
mother certainly contacted it after the credit card was issued but it was not clear whether she 
said that Mr K was vulnerable and at that stage, no process was put in place  to deal with Mr 
K appropriately. So I have based  my decision on the facts regarding  the transactions made.
credit card
I have considered whether Mr K should  have been given the card and whether the credit  
limit was too high.
Clydesdale would have  carried out affordability  and credit checks when processing  Mr Ks 
application. Clydesdale was required to lend responsibly. Before agreeing to do so, it 
should've assessed the affordability of credit to ensure that Mr K could afford to repay what 
he was borrowing. It's up to Clydesdale which checks it carries  out. But, they must be 
proportionate to things such as the amount borrowed, the cost of repayment and a 
customer's lending  history.
Clydesdale has said it approved the credit  card based on a system accept decision based on 
the information Mr K gave  and that there was no reference to the credit  decision team.  It has 
said that Mr K misinformed them about  his job.
Even though  Mr K didnt give Clydesdale correct information about his employment  history, 
as Clydesdale  is Mr Ks current account  provider it would have been able to check  the 
accuracy of Mr Ks income and expenditure quite easily. The information  was in Clydesdales  
Ref: DRN81536593possession and regulations say that Clydesdale must have regard  for information of which it 
is aware at the time of the assessment (CONC 5.2A22). And it must have regard to 
information obtained in the course of previous  dealings with the customer  (CONC 5.2A23). 
So I think that Clydesdale could have found  out Mr K had not had his job for very long and 
that he hadnt been regularly employed for the last four years.
Mr Ks monthly income was £1,205 and his yearly salary was £17,007.  Clydesdale  should 
have considered if the credit limit was affordable and a sustainable  credit  limit to give to him. 
The credit limit given to Mr K represents 25% of his annual income; this is substantial 
particularly for someone with no other  history  of borrowing.
On balance, if Clydesdale had considered Mr Ks income and expenditure in more  detail and 
considered the lack of credit history  I believe  it would not have lent to Mr K or certainly not to 
the level it did. So I think Clydesdale  should  refund Mr K all the charges and interest on his 
credit card.
the 58 cash transactions
During the period November 2016  to August 2017  Mr K was paying off his credit card bill 
and had managed to reduce the balance to £580.80 but in a period of three weeks in August 
2017, he increased his balance to £4,288.10.  This was because he made  58 cash advances  
on his credit card.
I consider that 58 cash advances over a three week period is unusual  activity in general  but 
specifically for Mr K. In one day, Mr K made  six cash withdrawals totalling £200 from his 
credit card and deposited some of the cash in his current account. Because  of this activity in 
one day, I would have expected Clydesdale to investigate it. Clydesdale  has said it wouldnt 
check this because its not fraudulent activity. And because the money was going from Mr 
Ks credit card to his current account,  it didnt  consider this unusual activity and so it was not 
flagged up.
On the first day, Mr K made six cash withdrawals. Many people needing cash would  have 
taken it out in one transaction  so that they would only be charged one cash  advance fee and 
not six. The use of the card in this way raises  warning  signs that Mr K was not familiar with 
how cash advances work on credit cards. It should  have made Clydesdale consider whether 
Mr K understood the charges he was incurring. But also,  as cash advances  from credit cards 
can be a sign of financial difficulty, I would have expected  Clydesdale to have looked at this 
in more detail  and contacted Mr K.
Had they done so Mr K would not have  gone  on to make the other 52 cash withdrawals 
incurring charges and interest.  This means  I would be asking Clydesdale to refund all 
charges and interest incurred on the 52 cash transactions. However, I am already asking for 
it to refund  all charges  and interests incurred on the card, for the reasons given above.
I understand that Clydesdale provided  Mr K with a replacement credit  card in August 2017.  
During the period between October  2017 and April 2018 Mr K managed to pay off the 
balance on this credit  card. 
overdraft requests
The bank has said that they followed procedures for granting the overdraft  facility  and Mr K 
was able to afford the increases. However, in one month Mr K asked for seven overdraft  
Ref: DRN81536594increases, which  indicates  someone who is not likely managing  their money very well. Mr Ks 
reasons for the overdraft requests were to help until payday and for emergency  funds. 
Clydesdale declined the third overdraft request because Mr K had asked for three increases 
in five days but gave subsequent overdraft increases.
I agree  with the investigator that Clydesdale should have been concerned at the high 
number of requests  for an increase within a short period. I think  that had Clydesdale  
considered the overdraft  requests particularly  in the light of the cash  advances  on the credit 
card they would have  realised Mr K was in financial difficulties. This should  have prompted 
them to investigate Mr Ks financial situation  and had they done so they would not have 
granted the overdrafts. Because of this, I think Clydesdale was irresponsible  in giving Mr K 
the overdraft facilities.  So I think that Clydesdale should refund all the interest  and charges 
Mr K has paid from when his overdraft was increased beyond £50, and any outstanding 
interest and charges in relation to the increases  should be waived.
Overall I think  Clydesdale have been  irresponsible in lending  to Mr K because they had an 
obligation to consider affordability but also whether  Mr K was in financial difficulty. I think that 
they had sufficient information regarding  Mr Ks financial position and his unusual credit card 
use to decide  to review  their lending decisions.
Mr Ks mother has asked  for the lending to be written off. However,  I think  it is reasonable for 
Mr K to have to repay  the money he borrowed,  given that he had the benefit of it.
I am also minded  to require Clydesdale to pay Mr K 8% simple  interest on the amounts he 
has paid in interest and charges, from the date of each payment to the date of settlement, for 
all refunds including the credit  card and the overdraft  over £50.
I have considered the impact on Mr K of this situation. Mr Ks mother  says that he was very 
distressed about  his increasing debt and she was concerned for his health. I think the level 
of Mr Ks distress can be seen by the way he was using his credit card advances to pay off 
his overdraft and also by the number  of his requests for an increased overdraft. I therefore  
think Clydesdale should pay him £300 for the distress.  I am aware that Mr Ks financial 
situation caused a great  deal of worry to his mother,  and this must have been very difficult 
for her. But I am unable  to award any compensation to her for what  she has gone through.  
This is because its her sons complaint and he is the customer  of the bank.
My provisional decision was that Clydesdale should refund Mr K all charges and interest 
incurred on his credit  card and all charges and interest on his current  account from when his 
overdraft increased to £150.  I also think  Clydesdale should pay Mr K £300 for the distress 
that they have  caused him.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K through his representative  has said he has no response to the decision.  Clydesdale  
has said it has nothing further  to add to the decision.
my findings
Although Mr K and Clydesdale  have not provided  any further comments, I have  nevertheless 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have seen nothing to change  my mind 
and so my provisional  findings stand.
Ref: DRN81536595my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to do the 
following to resolve  the complaint:
Refund Mr K all charges and interest incurred on his credit card ending  5892 and 
6199.
Refund all charges and interest on Mr Ks current account from when his overdraft 
increased beyond  £50.
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds, from the date of each payment of the 
interest and charges,  to the date of settlement*.
Pay Mr K £300 for the distress that they have  caused him.
*If Clydesdale  Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs (HMRC)  to 
withhold income tax from those parts of the award  constituting the 8% interest, it should tell 
Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Mr K should  refer back to Clydesdale Bank  Plc if hes unsure of the approach it has taken, 
and both parties should contact HMRC if they want to know  more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8153659