K820x#14complaint
Mr M says that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a loan with Lloyds in March  1998.  At the same  time he was sold a single 
premium PPI policy which wouldve covered the repayments on his loan for up to 12 months 
at a time if he lost his job or until the end of the loan if he couldnt work because he was 
unwell. The cost of the policy was added  to his loan and he paid interest on it.
Mr M says he didnt  need the policy and the full cost and terms and conditions of the policy 
werent explained.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr M disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding his case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Over 20 years has passed since the loan and PPI were  sold,  so unsurprisingly  neither party  
can provide much evidence about  the sale. Lloyds has provided a sample copy  of the loan 
agreement that was in use at the time. I can see from it that the PPI is shown separately  to 
the loan and is described as optional. There is also a separate box where the customer has 
to tick yes or no for the PPI.
I think its likely Mr M saw and signed  his form, or a form very like it. I dont think its likely 
that the loan couldve been  completed without his loan agreement. And I think its likely he 
opted for the PPI. So, on balance, on the limited information available  to me I think Mr M 
chose to buy the PPI knowing he didnt have  to.
Lloyds advised  Mr M to buy the policy, so it had an obligation to take reasonable steps to 
make sure it was suitable for him. It also had an obligation to make sure Mr M had all the 
information he needed to make his decision.
Looking at Mr Ms circumstances at the time I think it was suitable.  I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the cover  and wouldnt have been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for his to make a successful claim,  such as 
those relating to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Mr M says he had no savings but he says he did have some substantial  sick pay. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to that and potentially  for longer, to the end of 
the loan;
Ref: DRN87052492The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  
around the same time;
If Mr M had wanted the cancel  the PPI policy its likely he wouldnt  have  received  a 
proportionate refund of premiums. But I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that was 
something Mr M intended to do.
Its possible Mr M didnt  get all the information  he shouldve done. For example  I dont  know  
how the interest payable on the premium was explained to Mr M. But it was a relatively small 
amount  about £50. So I dont think if hed understood  this it wouldve made  a difference  to 
his decision to buy it. And Ive explained why I think the policy  was suitable  so I dont think  
more information  about the terms and conditions wouldve changed Mr Ms decision either.
So, on balance, on the limited information  I have,  I dont think Mr M lost out as a result of 
anything Lloyds did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, so it follows that Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8705249