K822xcomplaint
Mr P has complained  about the broker of his home insurance policy, Autonet Insurance
Services Limited.
background
Around 7pm the day before a meeting with his mortgage advisor, Mr P called Autonet  to get 
a copy of his insurance documents which were needed for the meeting. The advisor said to 
Mr P that hed email  the documents over and whilst  this could take up to 24 hours,  Mr P 
should get them that evening.
The documents werent received and Mr P called to chase them.  They were promised again 
but it was only whilst Mr P was chasing  Autonet for a third time that the documents  came 
through. A few days later Mr P also received documents  in the post.  The posted documents 
were in standard font size which Mr P couldnt read.
Mr P complained to Autonet. He told it hed been  promised documents  within  two hours  but it 
had taken several phone calls to get these. And during at least one phone  call the attitude  of 
the team leader had been poor. He said it was unfair that hed been  sent documents in 
standard print.
Autonet said Mr P had been  told hed get documents within  24 hours, rather  than two, but 
accepted that they hadnt been sent during that first call as promised. It accepted  the attitude 
of the team leader had been  poor.  Regarding the font size used in the documentation
Autonet said it has no ability to change that but emailing the documents allows the reader to 
use standard software to view the documents in larger sizes. It said it would pay £25 
compensation and as Mr P had indicated  that receiving a cheque  wouldnt be suitable  for 
him, it would  deduct this from his premium amount reducing his monthly payments. Mr P 
thought it should make the payment by bank transfer but also felt it wasnt enough.
Our investigator felt Autonet had failed Mr P as its advisor had said the documents would 
likely come through within a couple of hours. She noted that Mr P had said this had caused 
his financial enquiries  to be delayed by about  a week. She thought Autonet could have paid 
by bank transfer and its refusal to do so had been unreasonable. She thought £25 for the 
upset caused  by these failings wasnt enough  and that Autonet should  pay Mr P a further
£75, this time by a bank transfer. She felt sending documents by email  did equate to a 
reasonable adjustment and noted  the paper copy had only been  sent after the email  one, 
meaning Mr P had already been  provided with the documents  in a suitable format.
Autonet felt the suggested payment was unfair. It said it would  pay a further £25 (making
£50 compensation  in total).
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt Autonets offer to pay a further £25 was fair. 
I issued a provisional decision explaining my views. Both parties considered my findings  and 
said they agreed with them. Therefore, Im now issuing my final decision, the findings of 
which are those initially issued provisionally.
my findings
Ref: DRN88672072Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This service cant consider every aspect of every complaint brought  before us. For one thing 
we can only look at and take into account  complaints about regulated  activities.  How an 
insurer deals with a complaint is not a regulated activity. Autonet,  in response to Mr Ps 
complaint offered compensation. How it chose  to offer to make that payment is part of its 
complaint handling activity. Therefore, whilst  I accept  Mr P was likely frustrated by Autonets 
seemingly unreasonable refusal to pay the sum directly into his bank account, I cant  take 
that upset into account as part of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P has a condition that means he has difficulty reading  standard print 
documents. He is entitled to expect the companies that he deals with to make  reasonable 
adjustments for him in this respect.  As Autonet doesnt have  control over how the insurance 
documents are printed  I think sending  them by email, which allowed Mr P to adjust the size, 
was a reasonable adjustment. And Mr P did receive  an email copy  of the documents before 
he was sent the paper  copy.
Autonets call handler did tell Mr P hed likely receive the emailed documents that same 
evening. That set Mr Ps expectations  and caused him to be disappointed when the 
documents werent received.  It also gave him cause to call and chase the documents.  I dont 
doubt that his financial enquiries  were also limited somewhat during his meeting the
following day because of the lack of documents. I think  that was likely  frustrating.
Im also satisfied that Mr P was caused  some  upset by Autonets  team leader during his 
telephone enquiries made  to it regarding  the missing documentation and before he made  his 
complaint. I think the team leader did show a lack of professionalism and I note Autonet has 
accepted this. I appreciate that this call and the leaders attitude frustrated Mr P.
Having looked  at everything that went on, Im satisfied that £50 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I think  making Autonet pay more than this, for the upset Ive identified  above 
that Im satisfied it caused,  would  be unfair  and unreasonable. Mr P wasnt caused  any 
financial loss and the provision of documents was resolved within a matter of days. And 
whilst the team leader could have handled the call better he wasnt  rude or offensive (which 
might generate more  upset and therefore  warrant a more  substantial compensation award).
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require Autonet Insurance  Services  Limited  to pay Mr P a further  
£25 compensation (making £50 in total). Payment should be made,  if Mr P requires it, by 
bank transfer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Ref: DRN88672073Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8867207