K820x#14complaint
Mr W doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce the debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end in 2007.
background
In November 2019 I issued my provisional  decision.  In it I explained why I thought it was fair 
for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce Mr Ws debt from which he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end in 2007.
A copy of my provisional decision is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision. Neither  party had anything to add 
to it, although  Mr W was clear that RBS should  have provided  some information about the 
amount he borrowed  and the outstanding amounts, which he said RBS had failed to provide.
 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  industry  
practice at the relevant time.
RBS had nothing  further to add to my provisional decision.
Mr W said in summary  he accepted my decision,  but he had requested  several pieces of 
information from RBS regarding his outstanding debt and wanted  an explanation about  why 
RBS has failed to supply this.
This is a matter for RBS but I understand it has now responded to Mr W about his queries. If 
he wishes further explanation about the information he has received, he should contact RBS 
in the first instance.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr W but I have decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN87315592In my provisional decision (attached)  I mentioned  that there were some court cases which 
dealt with how the PPI compensation should be paid when  a consumer had been 
discharged from a protected trust deed. In one of the court cases,  Royal Bank of Scotland  
Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56 the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI 
compensation to reduce a debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came 
to an end. But I explained that this was being appealed by RBS  and that the outcome  may 
change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at The Inner  House of the Court  
of Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal  and the court  reaffirmed the legal position that 
RBS couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt repaid after the 
trust deed ended. The court said when the trust deed ended the debtor was discharged from 
her debts, so there was no longer any debt owing from her to the bank which  could be 
subject to set-off.
At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
However, as explained  within my provisional  decision  I have considered  the relevant law. 
And when  I set out my findings in my provisional decision, I did so when the law had already 
found in the consumers favour. RBS lost its appeal and now confirms the legal position 
within Scots  law about what happens when  consumer  is discharged  from their trust deed 
(although Im mindful as Ive said above,  RBS may be appealing this further to the Supreme 
Court). But as I also explained in my provisional decision, whilst I have to take into account 
the relevant law  Im not bound to follow it.  I must  also apply an over-arching test of whats  
fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ws complaint  as required of me 
through FSMA Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion it would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation 
directly to Mr W  when  Mr W, thanks to the trust deed, now wont  ever have to repay the 
monies borrowed and left unpaid.
So, I see no reason  to depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision and I dont  
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided  not to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint.  Ive decided that its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Ws 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount he owed and didnt repay when  his 
trust deed came to an end. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87315593Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr W doesnt  think its fair for The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  the debt from which he was discharged when  his protected 
trust deed came to an end in 2007.
background
Mr W took out a chain  of loans with RBS between 1996 and 1998. At the same  time, he was sold PPI 
policies to protect his repayments. 
Mr W entered into a trust deed as he was unable  to pay all his debts  when they fell due. This became  
a protected trust deeds  for his creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland  to bankruptcy (called 
sequestration in Scotland).  It is a legally binding  agreement between a consumer and their creditors,  
which is administered by a trustee.
The outstanding balance of Mr Ws existing loans  was included in those  trust deeds,  which was 
discharged in 2007.
RBS records show that following the completion of the trust deed in 2007, there was still a substantial  
outstanding balance owed to RBS.  While  RBS didnt  chase for the outstanding sums the debt still 
existed. So, a substantial amount of debt was left unrecovered from Mr W.
Mr W complained that PPI had been mis-sold to him. RBS agreed and it upheld the complaints 
offering to refund  the PPI premiums and the extra interest that Mr W had paid to date together with 
simple interest  to compensate him for the time hed been out of pocket.
Mr W signed the acceptance forms in August 2018
RBS told Mr W it would  use the funds to reduce  the money  it said was outstanding on his accounts. 
This is called offsetting.
Our adjudicator thought the way RBS had offered to settle the complaint was fair. Mr W didnt agree 
with that view.  Mr W doesnt  think the PPI compensation he was offered  should  be used by RBS in 
this way. 
Unhappy with the adjudicators view, Mr W asked that the matter be referred  to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.  He said that his old debt was a separate issue - hed paid back the loans long before he 
started the trust deed. He also said there was an on-going court case which had to be considered. So, 
the matter has been passed to me.
To be clear  in this decision Im only looking at whether it was fair for RBS to use the compensation for 
the mis- sold PPI to repay outstanding amounts on Mr Ws account.  I am not looking at the service 
RBS gave. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
Ref: DRN87315594(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
I am very sorry to disappoint  Mr W, but Im not intending to uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why 
below.
As RBS has upheld Mr Ws PPI mis-sale  complaint, Ive just looked at whether  what  its done to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.  I havent looked at how the PPI policies came to be mis-sold. And 
Mr W hasnt  raised any issues about the amount of compensation offered  so I also wont consider 
this. Mr Ws complaint is that RBS has set-off  the amount  of compensation  to reduce  the loan 
amounts that havent been fully repaid  rather than paying  the compensation  directly to him.
So, in this decision I need to decide  whether  its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr Ws PPI 
compensation offer to reduce the much higher amount of debt which he wasnt required to repay  back 
to it (and was written off by RBS)  after his protected trust deed was closed  in 2007.
Mr W has referred me to the ongoing court  case.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said about  how the law applies to his complaint. But as I said 
above, the outcome of this complaint depends upon  what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.  
Ive considered carefully what the law says about protected trust deeds. In recent years there have 
been several  cases  looking  at what happens to PPI compensation after a protected trust deed comes 
to an end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom considered the 
effect of a discharged  trust deed following a final distribution by the trustee. In that case, the 
discharge was held to terminate the trust which  meant that any unrealised assets were returned to the 
debtor  including the PPI compensation  that no one had known  about at the time.  In other words,  
the Supreme Court said that the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustees. It said it should 
be paid to the consumer.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether The Royal  Bank of Scotland (RBS)  could offset PPI compensation  against an 
outstanding balance when a trust deed  came to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case 
meant RBS had, in effect, agreed  that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt  later re-open 
the debt to offset the PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision,  so the 
outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS couldnt successfully  argue in court that it should be allowed to offset  
the compensation in Mr Ws case.  
But as I said above, when Im deciding  whats fair and reasonable,  I have to consider a number  of 
things  not just the relevant  case law. And I also have to consider  whats fair for both parties. I 
appreciate that RBS cant now chase Mr W in court  for the money that they owed when they granted  
the trust deed. But I can see from the evidence  RBS has provided that Mr W still borrowed more than 
he repaid off his loans.  Its likely  that wont now ever be repaid. 
Ref: DRN87315595I accept that Mr W has been discharged from the trust deed and that the case  law says those  debts  
dont exist anymore.  I dont  think it would  be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr Ws compensation  directly to 
him. The fact that Mr Ws trust deed had come to an end before this offer of PPI compensation was 
made doesnt  make  a difference to what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances here. I cant 
reasonably say its fair for RBS to repay the PPI compensation  directly to Mr W when he doesnt now 
need to pay back the much  bigger amount he borrowed. In reality  Mr W borrowed considerably more  
from RBS than he has paid back.
So, it follows from what  Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered 
to reduce the outstanding monies owed and left unpaid  following the closure of Mr Ws protected trust 
deed. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, my provisional  decision is Im not intending to uphold this complaint.
Im currently  minded deciding that its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to use Mr Ws 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount he owed and didnt  repay when his trust 
deed came  to an end. 
So, unless comments or information I get by 12 December 2019 change my mind, based on what Ive 
seen so far I dont plan to ask The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything  more to put things right.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8731559