K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains about the service TSB Bank plc provided after it withdrew the facility  to pay 
standing orders from her savings account.  
background
Mrs G had a savings account with TSB and used a standing order  to transfer funds to her 
current account with a different bank. In 2018 TSB changed how it operated  Mrs Gs account 
and stopped paying standing orders. 
Mrs G has told us that during 2018 she was seriously injured, had several  surgeries, spent a 
substantial time in hospital and on her return home was housebound.  
When Mrs G called TSB to discuss the situation she was told that to transfer  the funds in her 
savings account  shed need  to open a current account in branch.  Mrs G explained that she 
was housebound so couldnt  visit her local branch. Mrs G asked whether her daughter  could 
open a current  account in branch on her behalf but was told that wasnt possible. 
Mrs G asked this service  to look into what had happened and it was passed to an 
adjudicator. A complaint  was raised and TSB responded to Mrs G but didnt feel it had made 
an error. 
During the investigation Mrs G told the adjudicator that in order  to take money out of her 
savings account  shed given her cash card and PIN to friends  who withdrew  £200  at a time 
when possible.  
The adjudicator thought  TSB shouldve done  more when discussing Mrs Gs options and felt 
the service provided  was poor. The adjudicator said TSB shouldve  asked about a Power  of 
Attorney or discussed whether her pension couldve been switched to pay her current 
account instead. 
Mrs G went on to switch her pension to pay her current account and asked for her TSB 
savings account  to be closed and the funds sent to her as a cheque.  The adjudicator  upheld  
the complaint  and asked TSB to pay £250 for trouble and upset caused. TSB didnt agree 
and asked for the complaint to be appealed  so its been passed  to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its clear  that Mrs G has been through a very difficult time and was in a vulnerable  
position because  of her injuries and health  when she called TSB. From what Ive seen, I 
agree with the adjudicators view that the service provided to Mrs G shouldve been  better. 
Ill explain  why. 
TSB forwarded the call Mrs G made to discuss her options. During the call she explained 
that shed spent a lot of time in hospital  and had been very unwell. That meant she hadnt  
been able to make new arrangements for her pension and savings account. I think  thats 
entirely reasonable and something TSB shouldve taken into account. 
Ref: DRN81307292In addition, Mrs G repeatedly stressed  that she was housebound and unable to visit a 
branch. But the only option offered to her was to do that. Mrs G went on to say her daughter  
was visiting soon and asked whether she could open a current account on her behalf  but 
was told that wasnt  an option either. Like the adjudicator,  I think both the call handlers 
Mrs G spoke to shouldve  thought about options  available to vulnerable customers. And I 
think the sensible thing  to have mentioned was a Power of Attorney. 
In this case Mrs Gs told us her daughter did have Power  of Attorney to act on her behalf.  I 
appreciate Mrs G couldve asked  about  this herself  but shes  not a financial expert and Id 
expect TSB to have  discussed all reasonable options with her, especially in light of her 
vulnerable situation at the time. 
Mrs G has told us that as a last resort  she asked friends to withdraw  cash from ATMs on her 
behalf but clearly  thats not sustainable.  And theres increased risk to both Mrs G and her 
funds by being forced to make arrangements for large amounts of cash  to be regularly 
withdrawn. 
Mrs G has now redirected her pension payments to a different  bank  and her savings account 
has been closed  by TSB. As a result,  I need  to decide whether the £250 the adjudicators 
recommended is fair. For the reasons Ive given above, I think TSB shouldve done more  to 
try and help Mrs G and I think its clear how upsetting the situation has been for her. Having  
carefully considered  all the available evidence, I think £250 fairly reflects  the impact  of TSBs 
service on Mrs G and the trouble and upset caused. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs G £250.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8130729