K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly advised them to 
invest £50 a month, starting in 2000, in an excessively  risky unit-linked  savings plan.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 24 January 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Both parties  accepted my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  For the reasons previously  outlined,  I am 
satisfied that this complaint should  be upheld with compensation as outlined in my 
provisional decision.
Aviva should  pay compensation by comparing the return Mr and Mrs B received with what 
they might  have got via a more suitably  low risk investment. To do this it should use the low 
risk formula  recommended by this service. That is an equal combination of the returns  as 
shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months maturity  and those via the FTSE 
Private Investors Total Income Return Index.
If this shows a loss it should pay this figure and add 8% simple interest per annum from the 
date of surrender  to the date of maturity. Any early withdrawals should be taken  into account 
in making this calculation.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limited  to pay compensation 
as outlined above.
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86907382provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited wrongly advised them  to invest £50 a 
month, starting in 2000,  in an excessively  risky unit-linked  savings plan.
background
Mr and Mrs Bs representative said:
They  were first-time investors
They  were recorded  as being  happy  with a risk appetite of 3 to 4 respectively (out of 5)
The recommended product had a large weighting  in European equities making this 
excessively risky due to currency fluctuations
Their previous investment was a with-profits endowment plan i.e. low risk
An adjudicator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
She noted that Mr and Mrs B had two existing savings  endowment plans, one of which was about  to 
mature. So they were  effectively reinvesting  their existing  premiums in a new plan. This also meant 
they would therefore  have had some idea how these worked. She also felt that making modest 
regular premiums posed  a lower risk than a one-off lump sum investment.
Finally, she felt that Avivas  evidence indicated that the advisor had discussed  the issue of risk and 
given Mr and Mrs B sufficient information  and advice  to make an informed  decision about the 
proposed recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I do not agree  that Mr and Mrs Bs two endowment policies linked to a mortgage commitment 
effectively constitute  investment experience. These were widely sold,  over many  years, by advisors 
as a way of allegedly guaranteeing to pay off a mortgage not as risk-based investment  plans. They 
were also generally low risk with-profits plans.
Secondly, I do not agree  that the evidence indicates  that the advisor  fully explored Mr and Mrs Bs 
attitude to risk and/or  what  the potential significance of various risk classifications was. I have seen no 
evidence, for example, that they were offered a risk questionnaire or that the advisor  talked about the 
meaning of terms  such a medium risk.
So I dont believe  one can entirely rely on the 3 to 4 boxes when  assessing their likely  attitude to risk. 
Given their background,  circumstances, modest income and surplus  money each month it is far from 
clear to me that they would have wanted to take more than a modest risk with their money. Mrs B was 
due to retire in four years  so the volatility  of an investment would have been an important 
consideration given she may well have wanted or needed to access  this money at that point.
Even if Mr and Mrs B were  prepared to accept what is loosely called a low-medium risk investment I 
do not believe  the European fund was sufficiently cautious to meet this classification. From what Ive 
read, Aviva considered it a medium risk proposition, something  I would broadly agree with. As such  I 
dont believe it was suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
Crucially, there  is no apparent evidence  as to why the advisor recommended this particular fund. As 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative points out, this exposed their money  to an unnecessary risk of 
Ref: DRN86907383currency fluctuations which could not be safely assessed. In my view a European fund is likely to 
pose a greater risk than a UK equity one. Aviva should supply the fund breakdown  if it does not agree  
with my assessment  of this product.
I therefore  believe this complaint should be upheld  and that Aviva should  pay compensation by 
comparing the return  Mr and Mrs B received with what they might have got via a more suitably low 
risk investment. To do this it should use the low risk formula recommended  by this service. That is an 
equal combination of the returns  as shown by the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 months 
maturity and those via the FTSE Private Investors Total Income  Return Index.
If this shows  a loss it should pay this figure and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of 
surrender to the date of maturity. Any early withdrawals should  be taken into account.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8690738