K820x#14complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that the late Mrs H took out 
(jointly with her husband, who died in 2008) on the advice of Aviva  Life & Pensions UK 
Limited in 2003.  The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage was mis-sold.  The complaint has 
been brought by the executor of Mrs Hs estate.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words, and rounding the figures  involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
In 2003, Mrs H and her late husband took out a lifetime mortgage of just over £44,000, on 
advice from Aviva. The terms of the mortgage  provide  that no monthly  repayments  are 
required. The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the property is sold voluntarily, or if the 
last surviving borrower goes into full-time  nursing care or after their death. Interest on the 
loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded. This means that if the 
loan runs for a number  of years, there  can be a significant balance to be repaid.
The executor complained  that the mortgage had been mis-sold. Aviva  rejected the 
complaint, prompting  the executor to refer it to us whereupon the investigator  who looked 
into didnt recommend it be upheld. 
The executor asked for the case to be referred  to an ombudsman  for review. The basis  of 
the complaint  is that the mortgage was unsuitable.  In asking for the review by an 
ombudsman, the executor  says, in summary:
Mrs and Mr Hs ages at the time left them vulnerable as they were more  likely to trust 
those who were  advising them. Unless Avivas  salesman suggested it, they wouldnt 
have thought to get independent  advice.
A drawdown product would have been  more suitable and even if Aviva didnt provide 
one, its salesman would have known  that other providers did. It would be sensible and 
morally correct for the salesman to point them towards another  provider or, at the very 
least, recommend  they start with a lower amount from Aviva and then take a further 
advance later.
The executor  regards it as a matter of great importance that fourteen years after the 
mortgage was set up, around £32,000  of the money  was still unspent and sitting  in Mrs 
Hs savings account earning little interest.  
Both applicants were described  as being  in good health in 2003, but Mr H had been 
diagnosed with prostate cancer,  and would die from it in 2008.
Ref: DRN88208112my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Under our rules,  we can consider a complaint  from a consumer. Mrs and Mr H were  
consumers, and so met the definition of an eligible  complainant  set out in our rules.  
Following Mr Hs death, Mr H became sole eligible complainant, and then following her 
death, the eligibility to complain vested in her estate. The rules say that a complaint may be 
brought on behalf of an eligible complainant  by a person authorised  by the eligible 
complainant or authorised by law. In this respect,  the executor is bringing  the complaint on 
the estates behalf.
But I must explain that, although  the executor is representing Mrs Hs estate, it is Mrs H who 
was Avivas customer at the time of her death.  The executors role is to bring  the complaint 
on the estates  behalf, in the same way that other consumers  might instruct  a solicitor or 
accountant to represent them in a complaint.  But this does not entitle the executor to air his 
own grievances about Aviva, because he is not its customer; his role is limited to putting  
forward the estates  complaint.
In this decision I have  looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what  was regarded  as 
good industry practice at the time) and considered  generally whether Aviva did anything  
wrong when the mortgage was taken out. Ive considered all the available  evidence and 
arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. If the 
available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach  our findings on what  we 
consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats  broadly the 
same test that the courts use in civil cases.
The starting point  here is the point-of-sale documentation from 2003.  The value of such  
documents is that theyre contemporaneous;  so they should reflect  what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; But its typically more reliable than peoples individual  
recollections (or, as here, the testimony  of others  who werent present at, or involved in, the 
sale) at a distance  of time which, although given in good faith,  can sometimes be inaccurate 
or contradictory. So unless theres  a compelling reason to believe the information  is 
inaccurate, well generally attach  some weight to it.
The information-gathering exercise had identified specific financial objectives, including (but 
not limited to) new flooring, the ability to take regular holidays, and repaying  a car loan (the 
existence of which the executor is disputing). Theres another reason Mrs and Mr H wanted  
to have money available, and Ill return to that later in this decision. But in essence, 
Mrs and Mr Hs expressed wish in 2003 was to enjoy their money while  they could, rather 
than leave it to be spent by their nephews (they had no children  of their own). 
The fact-find recorded that Mrs and Mr H had around  £10,000 in savings (which they didnt 
want to disturb) and a monthly disposable income of about £230.  That suggests  to me that 
Mrs and Mr H were in need of some form of borrowing if they were to be able to realise their 
stated objectives.
So Ive next considered whether something  other  than a lifetime mortgage would have been 
a better  option. Mrs and Mr H were both recorded as retired  and were on a level of 
retirement income that was higher than their regular  outgoings  by only a relatively  modest 
Ref: DRN88208113amount. It shouldnt be assumed that they would have been  accepted  for another  traditional 
mortgage, given  their age. 
This, combined with my earlier finding  that some borrowing was necessary, meant that 
equity release (which  required  no monthly  repayment) was probably the only viable  option  
for Mrs and Mr H, given  the circumstances recorded at the time. Whether the plans for the 
money being raised came to fruition after the mortgage was arranged doesnt  affect  the 
suitability or otherwise of the advice  given at the time.
The executor challenges  why, in the absence of a drawdown option  in its own product  range, 
Avivas salesman didnt  recommend they start with a smaller loan, and borrow  more later if 
they needed it. But thats exactly  what happened; the advisor recommended a mortgage of 
£30,000 as being enough to meet their initial needs, but Mrs and Mr H decided  in any event 
to borrow the maximum they could  at the outset.  
The executor says that due to their age-related vulnerability, Mrs and Mr H were  inclined to 
take what they were  told on trust. But people arent necessarily and automatically vulnerable 
simply because theyve  reached a certain  age. And here, it looks to me as though 
Mrs and Mr H knew their own minds and knew  what  they wanted  to do, to the extent they 
were prepared to go against the advice they were  given, and not just on the amount of 
borrowing.
That brings me to the question of Mrs and Mr Hs health. I said earlier that Mrs and Mr H had 
another financial objective in mind; its relevant here.  The suitability letter  from August 2003  
records that Mr H was due to see a consultant about  a prostate problem (suggestive to me 
that a diagnosis had not yet been made). They didnt have any private medical cover,  and in 
the event an operation was necessary, they wanted to be able to go private rather  than be 
reliant to the NHS. 
The salesman explained that Aviva didnt routinely recommend releasing equity for possible 
medical needs that have not yet been identified. But again, Mrs and Mr H, having  received 
(and presumably noted) that advice, decided to do their own thing.  
That leaves the issue of independent  legal advice. Again, I refer to the suitability letter in 
which Aviva  sets out the requirement for such advice  to be provided.  It explained  that it could 
recommend two firms for Mrs and Mr H to consult,  but noted  their preference to consult with 
their own solicitor. 
All of this indicates  to me that Mrs and Mr H, far from being vulnerable and suggestible,  
presented themselves in 2003  as knowing their own mind and what they wanted to do, and 
how to go about  achieving it. That meant,  in some aspects, disregarding the advice from 
Aviva. 
Its possible that after the mortgage  had gone  through, Mrs and Mr H subsequently changed 
their minds  about what theyd do with the money,  but Avivas  duty was to give suitable 
advice, which Im satisfied it did. Aviva couldnt insist they follow every aspect of the advice it 
had given them. Nor was it obliged to monitor Mrs and Mr Hs behaviour after the sale to 
ensure they did what theyd said they were going  to do.
Ref: DRN88208114my final decision
For the reasons  set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  
this services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executor of 
Mrs Hs estate to accept  or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8820811