K820x#14Complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a claims management  company  (CMC),  complains that Bank  of 
Scotland plc (BoS) rejected their claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in 
respect of a mis-sold timeshare.
Background
In October  2003 Mr and Mrs D purchased a timeshare at a cost of some £10,500. Mr D paid 
a deposit of £2,2226.97 with his BoS credit card. He says they were  induced into making  the 
purchase while on holiday. He says they were told it was an investment, but this turned out 
not to be true. He also says the timeshare was misrepresented in a number of ways.
The CMC made a claim on Mr Ds behalf in January  2018. This was rejected and complaint 
was made  to this service  in August 2018. The bank said it had not seen any evidence of 
misrepresentation and there was no basis for the claim. It also said the claim was time 
barred under the Limitation Act 1980.
Our investigator considered the complaint  was within our jurisdiction, but concluded  it fell 
outside the time limits set by the Limitation Act. The CMC didnt agree and asked that the 
matter be considered by an ombudsman. It also said it would provide a full response after 
having taken advice from their client, but some time has passed and nothing further has 
been received.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Bank of Scotland is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation  by the supplier.  This means,  Mr D 
has a like claim against Bank of Scotland just as he would have against the supplier. So, if 
his claim against the supplier of the timeshare  has likely expired under the Limitation Act, 
then that is something  Bank of Scotland could  take into account  when it considers Mr Ds 
claims against it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits  which apply to different  types of claims. Youve 
said the timeshare  Mr and Mrs D bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, you would have six years from the date upon which you suffered a 
loss as a result of the misrepresentation to bring  your claim. 
As Bank of Scotland steps into the shoes of the supplier  for the purposes  of the s.75 claim,  
to work out when  the clock starts running  under  the Limitation Act, we need to work out 
when it would start if the claim  had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person  bringing  the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result  of the misrepresentation.  In this case,  given the nature of 
Ref: DRN89219982the complaint,  I think damage occurred when Mr D suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare.  Ill explain  why below.
 
The CMC says say that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr and Mrs D paid to 
enter an agreement which  has caused them to suffer  a loss. It says that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have  entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point  of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in October 2003. Thats the moment when Mr D accepted any potential  benefit under 
the contract, and it was also the moment he accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, Mr D 
needed to raise his claim no later than October 2009. As I understand it, he raised his claim 
in January 2018, which is some 14 years after the loss occurred.
Mr D may say that he wasnt aware  he could raise concerns  about  the misrepresentation 
until much  later. But the time limits  set out for misrepresentation claims such as this, start to 
run from the date of loss, which  may fall earlier than the date Mr D became aware that 
something might have gone  wrong.   
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
this complaint. Under s.140A,  the courts may make an order  under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement  if it determines  that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power  to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need  to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types  of claims. For a s.140A claim, Mr D would 
have six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the information  I 
have, your credit card account in 2005 so a s.140A claim needed  to be raised no later than 
2011. As I understand it, Mr D raised  his claim in January 2018, which  is some  14 years 
after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide  whether or not any claim Mr D may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that your misrepresentation  claim  against  the 
supplier and the like claim  against Bank of Scotland more  than likely exceeded the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Bank of 
Scotland to take this into account  when considering your s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more than likely  time barred under the Limitation Act, I think  
Bank of Scotlands decision  not to look into your claim was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 August 2021.
Ref: DRN89219983Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8921998