K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about American  International  Group  UK Limiteds (AIG) settlement of his 
claim under his personal accident insurance policy.
Mr M will note that the full name of AIG in my decision  is different to its name mentioned  in 
previous correspondence. Thats because AIG has now transferred its business. The change  
of name  hasnt affected the outcome of my decision.
background
Mr Ms complaint has developed during  our investigation. Ill summarise  the main  events.
Unfortunately Mr M suffered hearing  loss and made  a claim under his personal accident  
insurance, which AIG insures.
AIG instructed an ear nose and throat (ENT) consultant, Mr L, to assess the extent of Mr Ms 
hearing loss. Mr Ls September 2017  report said Mr Ms hearing loss was 25%.  AIG paid the 
claim by paying 25% of the loss of hearing  benefit  under the policy.  
AIG noted  that it hadnt given Mr M enough  updates about his claim and hadnt correctly 
actioned his complaint.  It offered £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due 
to its service.
Mr M provided further information.  He also raised  concerns  about  his loss of hearing being 
converted to a percentage and that his tinnitus hadnt been  taken  into account. Mr L 
reviewed Mr Ms information and did a report in August 2018.  AIG increased the settlement 
by 1% based on its understanding of Mr Ls August 2018 report,  which it thought said Mr M 
had 20% bilateral hearing loss and 6% tinnitus,  so 26% bilateral hearing loss.
Mr M complained that AIG should have increased  the initial settlement by 6% to take into 
account his tinnitus.
Our investigator explained why he thought AIG had misinterpreted Mr Ls report  and paid the 
extra 1% benefit  without evidence to support the increase. He also thought  AIG had fairly 
relied on Mr Ls opinion,  which  included the effect of Mr Ms tinnitus, to settle the claim on a 
percentage basis. Our investigator said that on the medical evidence  AIGs payment of 26% 
of the policy  benefit for hearing  loss was fair.
Mr M didnt  agree and instructed another ENT consultant,  Mr N. Mr Ns report  used two 
different methods to give a percentage on Mr Ms loss of hearing. The first method 
calculated Mr Ms loss of hearing as 21.19%, the second as 34.83%.
In the meantime, AIG told us it had already paid £7,000 for the loss of hearing in Mr Ms left 
ear on a previous  claim, meaning  that in total it had paid Mr M 31% of the loss of hearing  
benefit. It said the mid-point of Mr Ns reports two percentages is 28% and it had already 
paid Mr M a higher  percentage.
Mr M said Mr Ns second method of calculation  was more relevant  to his circumstances so 
AIG should pay 34.83% of the benefit.
Ref: DRN83877582Our investigator said there was no medical evidence that one of Mr Ns methods of 
calculation was more  appropriate than the other.  He thought a fair outcome would be to take 
the average of all three percentages the medical  experts had given, which he calculated  to 
be 27%. He said as AIG had already paid 31% of the loss of hearing benefit  it had already  
paid a fair settlement.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. His said he had made two separate 
claims for his hearing loss because they were  two or three different incidents during his work 
which affected his hearing. He also said AIGs payment to him was wrong as its internal 
notes about his previous claim stated hed had 40% hearing loss and it had calculated  that 
payment claim using the policy  benefit  of £5,000, not £20,000 as it should  have  done.  Mr M 
thinks AIG owes  him about  another £20,000 and the cost of him instructing Mr N. He says 
its a scandal how AIG has treated him. 
Before I made a decision I asked AIG for its comment  on its internal notes and a list of all 
payments made to Mr M for his hearing  loss with supporting evidence. Ill detail AIGs 
response in my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AIG has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  It shouldnt reject or limit a claim unreasonably. I think  AIGs settlement  
of Mr Ms claim is reasonable. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy provides cover if he suffers a bodily  injury, including 'loss of hearing  solely  
through an accident which results in a permanent disability. The policy defines those 
terms. AIG hasnt disputed that Mr M meets the criteria for making a claim, its the amount of 
benefit payable  thats in dispute.
Mr M has raised that he thought he had eight units of cover,  so AIG ought to use eight units, 
rather than the seven units its used in its calculation  of benefit. Ive seen evidence that Mr M 
had seven units of cover until September 2012 when he increased to eight. The evidence is 
that Mr Ms hearing loss is a result of incidents before September 2012, during the period he 
had seven units of cover. So Im satisfied AIG correctly based its calculation  on seven units. 
The policy benefit  for loss of hearing  in both ears is £20,000 or £5,000 for loss of hearing in 
one ear for each unit purchased. As Im satisfied Mr M had purchased  seven units at the 
time of the accident/s that means he can claim up to a maximum of £140,000 for loss of 
hearing in both ears and up to £35,000  for loss of hearing in one ear.  
To date Mr M has claimed successfully and received a number of payments for claims 
relating to hearing loss. Hes received:  
£7,000 for 20% loss of hearing in one ear  in relation to undated  accidents  between 
approximately 2008 and 2010
£7,000 for 20% loss of hearing in one ear  in relation to an accident in 2012 
£28,000 for 25% hearing  loss in both ears  in relation to the same  accident in 2012 
Ref: DRN83877583£1,400 for a further 1% hearing loss in both ears  in relation to the same accident in 2012. 
The policies over the relevant years either define loss of hearing as:
The total and irrecoverable loss of hearing. This is considered to have occurred if the 
degree of hearing  remaining after correction results  in the classification of profoundly deaf,
or loss as:
Permanent, total and irrecoverable  loss of use.
The medical evidence  is that Mr M doesnt have total loss of hearing.  AIG hadnt declined  
the claim on that basis but instead  it sought  expert  medical advice to see if there was any 
significant loss. That approach is in line with standard industry  practice and we generally 
think thats a fair and reasonable  approach  to decide what  proportion  of benefit, if any, an 
insurer should pay. 
Both parties  have instructed medical experts who have given their opinion  about the 
percentage loss of hearing for Mr M. 
Mr M says hes been told by audiologists  that one cant convert hearing loss into a 
percentage loss as hearing loss is measured  in decibels across a range of frequencies. 
But, where there isnt a total loss, paying a settlement based  on a percentage loss is widely 
used by insurers for personal accident  claims.  So I think  AIG can reasonably make a 
payment on a percentage basis. 
I also think its reasonable for AIG to rely on a medical  experts opinion  of Mr Ms hearing  
loss when assessing his claim. A medical expert will have the expertise to give an opinion 
and Im satisfied AIG instructed a suitably qualified expert to assess Mr M.
AIGs expert,  Mr Ls September  2017  report says that Mr M had 25% overall hearing loss from 
a normal person his age and this is likely to be permanent for the rest of his life. The report  
shows that Mr L was fully aware  of Mr Ms tinnitus and as his report  refers to overall hearing 
loss. So I think the 25% did take into account the effect of tinnitus on Mr Ms hearing.
Mr M has detailed  other ways in which his hearing loss could be calculated, for example 
Department of Work  and Pensions calculations. But those calculations  arent the standard  
way a personal accident claim is assessed  so I think its reasonable for AIG to decline to 
take those calculations or guidelines into account in this case.  Mr Ls August 2018  report 
says that using those calculations  Mr Ms disablement percentage would be lower than 20% 
binaurally with a 6% disablement attributable to his tinnitus.
AIG considered Mr Ls comments  and increased  the settlement to 26%.  In fact Mr L gave a 
much lower  percentage  on using the calculations  he thought  ought  to be used for Mr Ms 
level of disability. Given Mr Ls overall opinion in his reports  I think  AIG was fair to use the 
higher percentage of 26% as the basis  for the settlement. Mr L wasnt  saying that Mr Ms 
percentage of hearing loss was 25% plus 6% for the tinnitus.
Ref: DRN83877584Mr Ns April 2019 report describes the two methods he used to calculate Mr Ms hearing  
loss, including  the effect of tinnitus. The first method, which  Mr N says is the most common 
method, gives Mr M 21.19% binaural  hearing loss. The second method gives  34.83%  
binaural hearing loss.
Although Mr M says AIG should base  its settlement  on 34.83%, Mr Ns report didnt say that 
one method of calculation  is more appropriate than the other  for Mr Ms situation. 
The two medical  experts  have given three  different percentages for Mr Ms loss of hearing. 
I think the fair and reasonable  outcome is to base the settlement on the average of those 
percentages which is approximately 27%. I think thats fair as it takes into account all of the 
available medical  evidence.
Mr M says AIGs internal notes state  he had 40% hearing loss for a previous claim so it 
should have paid the claim using  40% and it wrongly used the £5,000  benefit rather  than 
£20,000. Based on the information  Ive seen I think AIG settled that aspect of the claim fairly 
because AIGs internal  note relates  to his 2013  claim for an incident which happened in 
2012. The medical evidence for that claim is Mr M had high tone hearing loss in one ear 
equivalent to 40%. As Mr M was claiming  for loss in one ear at that time the £5,000  benefit  
was the right starting point for AIGs  calculations of its settlement payment.
AIG didnt  settle the claim for 40% hearing  loss in one ear at that stage because the medical  
experts opinion  was only half the 40% loss was due to the 2012 incident and the other half 
was due to a previous incident/s.  So AIG reasonably asked Mr M to complete a second 
claim form to explain  the incidents  from 2008/2010 to review  for the additional  benefit  for his 
20% loss of hearing. 
AIG paid Mr M two settlements of £7,000 for the 40% hearing loss in one ear, based on the 
£5,000 policy benefit for hearing loss in one ear. It also paid him £28,000  and £1,400 for 
26% bilateral  hearing loss, based  on the £20,000  policy benefit for hearing  loss in both ears.
Overall Im satisfied that AIG applied the correct policy benefit for the claims for hearing  loss 
in one ear and both ears with seven units of cover.
AIG has paid Mr M a total of £43,400 for his loss of hearing. Thats  the equivalent of 31% of 
the benefit for loss of hearing in both ears:
£20,000 x 7 units  = £140,000
£140,000.00 x 31% = £43,400.
Mr M believes strongly that AIG hasnt treated him fairly in the payments its made  about  his 
loss of hearing. But Im satisfied it has. It would be fair for AIG to pay Mr M around 27% of 
the loss of hearing benefit in both ears.  Its already paid him 31%. So I dont think AIG needs 
to make any further payments. 
Even if I thought Mr Ls report percentage of 26% should be disregarded,  and I dont think 
that, the average of Mr Ns two percentages is 28.01%.  AIG has paid more than that at 31%.
AIG has paid a fair settlement for Mr Ms claim.
AIG doesnt  need  to pay Mr Ns costs that Mr M paid.  Mr M is responsible for providing 
evidence to support  his claim and ultimately I think AIG had already made a fair settlement.
Ref: DRN83877585AIG offered Mr M £250 compensation for his distress and inconvenience due to its lack of 
claim updates and not correctly actioning his complaint.  I think  £250 is a reasonable amount. 
Mr M wasnt disadvantaged  by AIG not actioning his complaint as hes been able to make  a 
complaint to us to consider.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8387758