K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim he made on his Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) travel  
insurance policy, which was declined.
background
Mr R and his family  were due to go on holiday in August 2017. On the morning  of the trip 
Mr R says he woke up feeling unwell  but nonetheless tried to make  his flight. He says he 
thought hed arrived at the check in desk with enough time to get through, but was told by 
the airline this wasnt the case when he arrived. As a result he and his family werent allowed 
on the flight and abandoned their trip a short  time later. 
Mr R has provided detailed  testimony  outlining the reasons why he wasnt  able to make  the 
flight - which  was due to the symptoms hes told us he was experiencing. When he made a 
claim on his travel insurance policy for the cost of the holiday,  URV declined to cover it. They  
said this was because  Mr R hadnt  provided any medical evidence to support the condition 
he said caused him to miss his flight.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs complaint and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr R 
doesnt agree. He says he tried to get in touch with URV several times after he missed his 
flight and wasnt successful in securing  a doctors  appointment.  Because of this the matter  
has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The starting point  is the policy terms. In the event of illness resulting in the cancellation of a 
trip, the insurance  requires Mr R to have obtained  a written statement from the treating 
doctor at the time of the cancellation confirming the necessity to cancel your trip.
Mr R didnt provide this. I appreciate that he says he tried to contact URV to find out what to 
do and wasnt able to get through to them,  but I dont think  that means he didnt need to 
provide a statement from a treating doctor at the time of cancellation of the trip. 
And I understand why Mr R says he wasnt able to see a doctor at the time the trip was 
abandoned- but I dont I dont agree that URV should cover  his claim as a consequence. In 
particular Mr R has said he wasnt able to get an appointment with his GP because his 
condition wasnt an emergency.  He also says he stayed close  to the airport  on the day he 
missed his flight because  there was a possibility the airline mightve let him on another  flight  
the next day. This didnt  materialise though  and the trip was abandoned entirely.  
I appreciate why Mr R might have had difficulties getting a GP appointment and that he 
provided URV with details  of his GP to contact them if needed- but the onus wasnt  on URV  
to prove  Mr Rs claim. So I wouldnt have expected them to do this. And it wasnt  necessary 
for Mr R to see a GP- only to get a written statement from a treating doctor at the time the 
trip was cancelled. That couldve been a doctor  from a local walk in centre or even a private 
doctor local to the airport. 
Ref: DRN80317882Without this evidence, I cant reasonably expect URV to cover Mr Rs claim because theyre 
simply not in a position to validate  the matters Mr R said prevented  him going  on holiday, 
with the benefit of current medical evidence. 
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Rs situation,  I wont be asking URV to do anything  further
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint against Union 
Reiseversicherung AG.
 Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8031788