K821x#15Complaint
Miss D says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Drafty) irresponsibly lent to her because at the time 
she had the facility she was in a debt spiral.
Background
Miss D approached Drafty  for a running credit  facility in July 2017  which  she repaid and in 
January 2018.  This was a running  credit account where a consumer could either request 
funds up to their agreed credit limit in one go or take multiple drawdowns up to their limit  
but the minimum drawdown  was £50. 
In our adjudicators latest findings  he didnt  think Drafty shouldve  given Miss D the facility.  
He said that Miss D already had a history  with Gain Credit  through another  Gain  Credit 
brand. So the adjudicator felt it was reasonable that before  the facility  was granted  Drafty  
shouldve carried out a full review of Miss Ds finances. And had it done so, it wouldve seen 
that Miss D wasnt in a position to take on the facility.   
Miss D appears to have  agreed with the adjudicators recommendation.
However, while Drafty said it would respond to the adjudicators recommendation it didnt 
provide us with any further comments or evidence.  So I dont know  what it thinks  about the 
outcome that has been reached. As no agreement was reached, the case  has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
When the facility  was approved, Drafty  needed  to take proportionate steps to ensure a 
consumer would be able to repay  what they were borrowing in a sustainable  manner without 
it adversely impacting on their financial situation.  Put simply, Drafty had to gather  enough  
information so that it could  make  an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance  didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate.  And any checks  had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, and when that was due to be repaid.
But to be clear, Miss D wasnt given a payday  loan where he had to repay all of what she 
borrowed plus the interest due when she next got paid. She was given a facility where there 
was an expectation  that shed repay what she borrowed plus the interest due within  a period 
of at least 12 months  but Miss D could repay what she borrowed more quickly, if she 
wished. So overall, I think that this means  the checks Drafty carried out had to provide 
enough information for it to be able to understand whether  Miss D would likely be able to 
service and then repay this facility within a reasonable  period  of time.
As Ive said,  Miss D was granted  a running  credit  facility with a £1,100  limit. According to the 
credit agreement, had she drawn down the full amount on the first day of having the facility, 
and run the facility  for 12 months,  she wouldve  paid a total of £1,498.55, meaning the 
Ref: DRN89752772monthly repayment Miss D would  be expected  to make  would  be around £125. So that is the 
monthly amount  that Drafty needed  to check could  be repaid. 
 
Before granting the facility  Drafty  asked Miss D about her monthly  income, which she 
confirmed was £1,750 per month  and he also declared expenditure of £650  per month. On 
top of this, Drafty has also told us that it completed  a credit check. Based on the information  
that Drafty  gathered it seemed that Miss D would be able to afford  the repayments he was 
committed to making. 
Normally, at the start of the lending relationship, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Drafty to 
have relied on the information it was provided.  So, generally, we may have felt that Drafty 
didnt need to do any more before providing this facility. However, taking into account the 
individual circumstances  of this case  I do think Drafty needed to do more before this facility 
was granted. 
I say this because,  in this case, while this was Miss Ds first Drafty loan it wasnt  the start of 
her lending relationship with Gain  Credit.  Miss D had already been  provided with a number 
of instalment loans  by Gain Credit  albeit these  previous loans were provided under a 
different trading name.  Drafty hasnt commented on what information it knew about the other 
lending at the time, but I think its more likely than not, that it will have  been  aware  of these 
loans. In any event,  as they were provided  by the same company albeit using a different 
brand  at the very least it ought  to have  been aware of the existence of this previous 
lending relationship. 
In fact, Gain Credit had provided  Miss D with around 28 instalment loans within  the previous 
two years.  In addition  to this, it seems  that Miss D was granted the Drafty facility shortly  after 
repaying her final instalment loan. So the prolonged nature  of Miss Ds borrowing ought to 
have prompted  Drafty  to take a closer  look at her financial  situation.  
The adjudicator thought,  it ought to have been  clear to Drafty that Miss D wasnt using the 
instalment loans previously provided its other  brand to cover  a short  term cash  flow problem 
and so werent being used as the lender  had intended. So Drafty ought to have realised that 
by providing further  credit  to Miss D, in these circumstances shed struggle to repay this in a 
sustainable manner.  
So like the adjudicator, I agree that at the point the facility was approved Drafty needed to do 
more in the way of checks. So I dont think it was reasonable of it to have relied on what 
Miss D told it. Instead Drafty needed  to gain a full understanding of Miss Ds actual financial 
position. 
Had it done so, it wouldve  seen that Miss Ds actual income  was broadly in line with what  
she declared to Drafty.  However, when the facility was approved, Miss D already owed other  
short term lenders  over £2,400  not all of this wouldve been repayable in one go but over 
the course of Miss D having the facility. And in the three weeks  leading up to the facility 
being granted Miss D had repaid a number of short term lenders over £2,720  which is 
more than her declared income. 
So I think that a closer look at Miss Ds finances  wouldve shown  Drafty  that she was using 
multiple short term lenders in order  to cover an ongoing short fall in her monthly outgoings   
most likely caused by having to repay  other lenders. And knowing this, I dont think  Drafty 
shouldve provided  the facility. 
Ref: DRN89752773It couldve taken a closer look in a number of ways, it couldve  asked  to see copies of 
payslips and bills, or as Ive done here,  it couldve asked to see a copy  of Miss Ds bank 
statements or her actual credit report.  However, it chose to do none of those  things. 
putting things right  what I think  Drafty needs  to do
refund  all interest, fees and charges Miss D paid towards her facility ;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  Drafty recorded on Miss Ds credit  file about the 
facility. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Miss D as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 May 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8975277