K820x#14complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Miss H says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss H bought the policy in 1998  at the same time as taking out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint because:
FICL and Miss H have  sent us a copy of the credit  agreement completed at the time, 
which I can see Miss H signed. Theres a separate  section for PPI on the credit 
agreement, in which I can see theres a tick next to the statement  to say Miss H wished to 
take out the PPI. Ive thought carefully about what Miss H has said about this  including 
that the member of staff filled out the form and she wasnt  told about the PPI. Ive also 
thought carefully about what Miss H has said about  her suffering from hearing loss and 
that she has worn two hearing aids since a young age. But overall, whilst  I accept its 
possible, I just dont think theres enough evidence to say that FICL  didnt  make  Miss H 
aware of the PPI. Ive not seen anything that persuades  me Miss Hs hearing loss 
affected her ability to communicate adequately  with the member of staff. And even if the 
member of staff did complete parts of the form, Miss H would have seen the form when 
she signed  it. And the PPI might also have been discussed. So overall, I think its most 
likely that FICL made Miss H aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it  even  if, understandably, she doesnt remember  that now.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Miss H so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  And Miss H suffered  from hearing loss and wouldnt have been able to 
claim under the policy if she was unable to work because of her hearing. However, 
Miss H has said that she hadnt previously  needed to take time off work because of her 
hearing, and it doesnt  look like it affected her ability  to do her job. And Miss H doesnt  
appear to have been affected in any other way by any of the main things the policy  didnt 
cover  and based on what  I know about her circumstances  it looks  like the policy 
couldve been  useful  to her. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it.
Ref: DRN84661962Ive taken into account Miss Hs comments,  including what  shes said about her not having 
taken out PPI on other store  cards she had. But Im not persuaded this means the PPI she 
did take out in this case was mis-sold.  So for this reason, and the reasons explained  above,  
these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8466196