K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about how MBNA  Limited responded when she made a late payment.
background
Mrs M told us that she usually pays her MBNA credit card account promptly every month, 
and she usually pays a little bit more than she owes. But she said that she didnt receive her 
MBNA statement for November 2018,  telling her how much  to pay, until 10 December 2018. 
She said that she paid straight away when she got the statement,  but she said that MBNA 
had written to her to say that it had withdrawn the use of her card. She said that she could 
understand MBNA taking this step if shed been  a regular  late payer, but to withdraw the use 
of the card for one late payment seemed unnecessarily harsh.  
MBNA said that it had checked, and the statements  for November had issued without any 
difficulty. So it thought that Mrs M shouldve received that statement. And it had sent text 
messages to Mrs M on 4 December and 7 December, to remind  her to make  a payment. 
MBNA said that it thought that Mrs M shouldve called  it, in response to those messages. 
She didnt,  so it placed a block on her account, and wrote to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that MBNA had attempted to contact 
Mrs M, and she hadnt got in touch with it when her statement hadnt arrived. Our adjudicator  
didnt think that MBNA  had treated  Mrs M unfairly  or acted unreasonably.  It was entitled to 
block Mrs Ms account in these circumstances. Our adjudicator said that Mrs M could ask for 
the block to be removed. But he didnt think that MBNA had to reinstate Mrs Ms card, pay 
compensation, or give Mrs M an interest  free period. 
Mrs M said that she didnt agree with that, because  she said she really  had been  managing  
her account  very well prior to this. And she said that MBNA  couldnt  guarantee that the 
statement had been received. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change his mind. He said that he didnt think  the banks actions were 
personal, it was just following its business  strategy.  And he said that Mrs M could also have 
contacted MBNA when  her statement didnt arrive.
Because our adjudicator and Mrs M didnt agree, this case  was passed to me for a final 
decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mrs M accepts that she didnt make a payment for her November statement (issued  6 
November 2018) until early December.  So she did pay late, but she says that isnt her fault,  
as her statement  didnt  turn up on time.
MBNA has said that there werent  any problems with issuing statements at this time. So I 
think that the delay in Mrs M receiving this statement was likely  to be just a problem with the 
post. I dont think its MBNAs  fault if that happened. Once MBNA has issued a statement, 
and posted it to the right address, it cant actually guarantee it will arrive promptly.
Ref: DRN82954922But when I consider how MBNA has responded to this late payment, I also need to bear in 
mind that MBNA also sent Mrs M text messages prompting payment. It seems likely, from 
what Mrs M then said to MBNA, that she had received those, and hadnt responded to them. 
I know that Mrs M is usually a prompt and reliable  payer. But it is primarily Mrs Ms 
responsibility to make  her payments on time. If she chooses to make a manual payment, 
rather than to use a direct debit, then that means she has to keep  an eye out every  month,  to 
make sure that shes received and paid a statement. And if she doesnt  get that statement 
for some reason, then I think she does have  a responsibility to get in contact with MBNA 
before the due date to find out what she owes.
Mrs Ms payment was due by 3 December. MBNA texted Mrs M on 4 December, to say it 
hadnt received  payment. When MBNA issued Mrs Ms next statement, on 6 December, it 
noted she hadnt paid for the last statement.  It said it wouldnt apply a default charge for that 
this time. MBNA texted Mrs M again  on 7 December, as it still hadnt  received any payment.
Because Mrs M didnt  pay on time, and then didnt take any action in response to MBNAs 
texts asking her to make a payment, I think that it was reasonable for MBNA  to take action to 
restrict Mrs Ms use of her card. It wrote to her on 9 December to tell her it was doing  that.
MBNA has now told us that it will reconsider Mrs Ms use of her card if she contacts it and 
asks for the account to be reinstated. I can see that the letter to Mrs M, which  told her that 
her card was restricted, doesnt explain this to Mrs M, but at the time this letter  was issued,  9 
December, Mrs M still hadnt made  a payment. It looks as if she paid on 10 December. So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for MBNA to write to Mrs M in these terms at that time. 
I know that Mrs M thinks MBNAs response  to her late payment was too harsh. But I think  
that MBNA  responded reasonably at the time.  And its offered  to reconsider its response 
now, if Mrs M wants it to. Overall, I dont think MBNA has been unreasonable  or unfair. So, 
although I realise Mrs M will be disappointed,  I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8295492