K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sold her credit card account  to 
another business which she thinks it shouldnt  have done because of her ongoing mental  
health issues.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 14 May 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make.  I 
said that Mrs G had suffered some  distress and inconvenience as a result  of RBS decision  
to sell her credit card debt to another business.  I thought that  because  it was clear that 
Mrs G had some mental health issues, RBS shouldnt have sold the debt. My provisional 
decision was that RBS should pay Mrs G £200 compensation for the impact its actions had 
on her but I didnt think it would be the correct outcome for RBS to buy the debt back.   
RBS acknowledged  receipt of the provisional  decision but didnt  provide  any response or 
make any further submissions.
Mrs G acknowledged the compensation  payment that was proposed  but wasnt happy that I 
didnt ask RBS to buy back the debt.  She wanted  us to confirm  that the other business 
couldnt pursue  her for the debt as she was terrified of it forcing her to repay.  She said this 
was affecting  her health and she wanted RBS to buy the debt back.  She also provided a 
recent GPs  report about the current state  of her health. 
Mrs G subsequently  told us shes received  texts  from the business  now responsible for her 
debt, asking her to contact it to discuss payments  towards her account   which  were  causing 
her a great deal of distress and affecting her health.
We asked the business  to put a hold on Mrs Gs account until a decision had been  made,  
which it agreed to do.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  carefully  reviewed Mrs Gs 
further submissions I see no reason to change the conclusions  I came to in my provisional  
decision.
I can see how much this situation is affecting  Mrs G. Im aware of her concern that the 
business that now holds her debt will try to pursue her for the outstanding amount owed, and 
wont act in the same way that RBS did when  agreeing a repayment structure with her. Ive 
also seen the report Mrs Gs GP sent about  her ongoing health problems and I have  
sympathy for the position  shes in, and I dont wish to add to the stress that Mrs G is clearly 
experiencing here.
But, having  decided  that RBS did make  an error  by selling her debt here, I have to think very 
carefully about how to put things right.
Ref: DRN81727152Mrs G is concerned that the new firm has a reputation for being more  forceful  than RBS 
was in pursuing the debt. But theres no evidence to show  thats  the case. To date the new 
business hasnt  altered  the existing repayments and has asked  Mrs G to supply some  
financial information so that it can consider if the payments remain  affordable. So Mrs G isnt 
any worse off financially  at this point. The third party  business  has experience in recovering 
debts and this type of business tends be more flexible about what  it can accept as payments 
and what other help it can provide.
 
So, as theres no evidence to show that this third party  has treated Mrs G any differently up 
to now, I would urge Mrs G to engage with it to try to come to some agreement  going 
forward. Mrs G now has an updated  health  report  which wasnt  previously available to 
RBS, so I would  expect the third party to consider how this affects her ability to repay the 
debt.
Ultimately if I were  to tell RBS to buy back the debt it would find itself in exactly the same 
position of having to ask Mrs G to confirm her financial  and medical position before deciding  
what level of repayment to set (or consider alternative options). It would then remain entitled 
to sell the debt if Mrs G couldnt make sufficient  payments to it. So I dont believe Mrs G 
would be in any better position  if I were to do this. In fact, if I were  to say that RBS should 
buy the debt back,  Mrs G could just end up in this position again. 
I know Mrs G wants  me to go further  and tell RBS to buy back  the debt but I dont think thats 
the right outcome here.  If Mrs G can discuss the matter  with the third party  using the new 
information she now has  I would expect the third party to agree a fair and reasonable 
solution going forward and to treat any financial difficulties she may be experiencing 
positively and sympathetically.
But I did decide that RBS made a mistake here which caused Mrs G to suffer considerable 
distress and inconvenience. Im aware of the affect this has had on her and I think  RBS 
should make  a compensatory payment to Mrs G for the impact  of its decision to sell her 
credit card debt.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mrs Gs 
complaint against  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay Mrs G £200 for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused by selling her credit card debt to another  firm. I make no further  award against it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81727153copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs G complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) sold her credit card debt to another 
business, which she thinks it shouldnt  have done because of her ongoing mental  health issues.
background
Mrs G took out a Mint credit card through RBS in 2008.   In 2010 a debt management  company  (DMC) 
applied to RBS, on Mrs Gs behalf, to accept a reduced payment  on her account  because  of her 
financial difficulties. In July 2010 the account was defaulted with interest and charges suspended, and 
the repayment plan was accepted. In 2011 the DMC  advised RBS that Mrs G had suffered serious ill 
health and would be unable to make any repayments. It was agreed the account should be put on 
hold for six months. RBS was then unable  to review the account  as Mrs G had changed  her address  
 until agreement  was reached in December 2012 that she would make  repayments of £5 per month.
This arrangement continued,  with periodic reviews of Mrs Gs financial situation, until 2017 when  RBS 
made a decision to sell some long term repayment plan accounts to another  business  which included 
Mrs Gs card account.
But that caused Mrs G to complain.  She said that RBS shouldnt have sold her account to another  
company as she had a long standing repayment plan with RBS and it was aware of the mental  health  
issues she was suffering  from. She said shed received letters from the company  about  a new 
repayment plan and the stress involved was adding  to the depression  and anxiety she was suffering 
from. She wanted RBS to buy back the debt.
RBS said it hadnt received any information relating  to Mrs Gs mental  health issues and had always  
worked with her directly according  to the information it had received.  It said Mrs G had been able to 
manage her account and agree repayment  plans herself and she showed no signs  of needing  help to 
do so. It said it made a commercial decision  to sell a number of accounts in 2017 and Mrs Gs 
account would continue to be managed  in the same way as before.  
Unhappy with this response Mrs G brought her complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld.  He said he couldnt 
see that RBS had been  advised  of any mental health issues and didnt think  it was RBS responsibility 
to have been  aware of any issues based on Mrs Gs management of her account.  He said he thought  
transferring the account  had been  fair and reasonable and that RBS had followed its terms and 
conditions in doing so.
Mrs G still believed that RBS should  have  realised  that her injury from 2011 meant she was suffering 
from some kind of mental health issues. So, as no resolution could be found  the complaints been 
passed to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute here that RBS hasnt acted positively  and sympathetically towards Mrs Gs 
financial difficulties since 2012. Mrs Gs complaint  is that she doesnt believe RBS should have  sold 
her debt onto a third party bearing  in mind her health issues. 
And Ive seen evidence of Mrs Gs anxiety over this matter, as it seems she had a credit card with 
RBS for which  her reduced payments were collected on behalf of RBS by firm W, and the account  
has now been  sold to firm C.
Ref: DRN81727154So Mrs G is concerned  that, having agreed a long term repayment plan with the RBS, another firm 
might put pressure  on her to change  that repayment plan to an amount she feels she cant afford.   
So Ive looked at whether I think RBS did act fairly in selling Mrs Gs account to a third party. And Ive 
considered the following extract from the Lending Standards Board which explains its guidelines  for a 
business selling debts for personal customers:
Firms should follow a robust due diligence process when  selecting third parties  for debt collection or 
when selling a debt.
a. Firms should  ensure  that when a customers debt is sold, the purchaser  continues to apply the 
relevant protections  provided by the Standards of Lending Practice. Monitoring should  be undertaken 
at least  annually  where a Firm continues to sell debt to a purchaser, and for a further two years after a 
Firm has stopped selling  debt to that purchaser.
b. If a customer has provided  appropriate and relevant evidence of an ongoing mental health or 
critical illness that affects the customers ability to repay their debts, the debt(s) should not be sold.
c. Where a Firm is aware that a customer is terminally ill, the debt(s) should not be sold.
 
Ive also looked at the clinical  report that Mrs G provided  RBS when she made it aware of her health 
issues in 2012. 
I think  the information  available   probably in 2011, but certainly no later than 2012  did suggest 
Mrs G had some mental health issues, and  looking at the guidance above I dont think RBS 
therefore should have  sold her credit  card debt at the time it did. 
I know RBS has said that it didnt do anything wrong by selling some longer terms debts onto a third 
party in 2017. And I agree its terms and conditions under disclosure of information  and transferring 
right  confirmed  We may give to anyone any information  about you or this Agreement  in connection  
with any proposed transfer  of, or financial arrangement by reference to, this Agreement. We may 
allow any person to take over any of our rights and duties under this Agreement . So I think  overall it 
was entitled to transfer  the accounts. 
But I think RBS should have realised the letter from Mrs Gs consultant in 2011 could have indicated 
mental health issues  at least to the extent  RBS should have  asked more about  Mrs Gs personal 
situation before selling the loan. So I think RBS has made an error there which I think  has had an 
impact on Mrs Gs current circumstances and mental health issues. 
So Ive gone onto consider what I think RBS should do to put things right here. Usually  I would have 
said it should put Mrs G back into the position she would be in now, if it hadnt made the mistake  I 
think its made. But Im not sure that would benefit Mrs G and I think it could be equally traumatic  for 
her. I say that for the following reasons.
As it stands theres  no evidence that Mrs Gs repayments have been changed  albeit  she has been 
asked to provide financial  information for firm C so that it can review her financial situation. Its quite 
likely RBS would ask for this information (on a reasonably regular  basis)  if it still held the debt.
But I havent  seen anything to suggest Mrs G has suffered a financial detriment as a result of her debt 
being sold. In other words shes still paying the same amount and theres no indication shes been 
asked to pay more. But if I asked RBS to buy the debt back its still entitled  to review Mrs Gs 
circumstances to ensure  the repayment plan remains  suitable, which  could lead to the repayments  
being changed. And if Mrs G is unable to demonstrate shes  suffering from the same  health issues  
to the same degree, RBS could sell the debt on again  and Mrs G will be in the same situation.  
Ref: DRN81727155So, as its not clear  to me that Mrs G would benefit  from RBS buying  back  the debt  because  of the 
further problems this might  cause her, I think RBS hasnt acted as Id expect it to in line with best 
industry practice and should  pay Mrs G £200 for the trouble and upset that this matter has caused 
her. I think Mrs G would have worried  constantly about  the debt being sold to a new firm she had no 
experience of and would have been concerned  about how this might affect her repayments. On top of 
her mental  health issues I think  this would  have  caused  Mrs G some degree of distress,  the impact  of 
which warrants the award of a compensatory payment.
I previously asked RBS for its comments on my thoughts on this complaint  but it hasnt yet 
responded. Ill take into consideration  any views  it now has on my award  and any comments  about 
possibly buying the debt back.  Ill also consider any comments from Mrs G on my decision not to tell 
RBS to buy back her debt.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im minded to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and tell RBS to pay her £200.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8172715