K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card in 1990, and bought a regular premium PPI policy at or in the 
years following the opening of his credit card account. I cant  say exactly how much  this 
policy cost Mr C but from what we know of the policies  that Lloyds sold at the time I think it 
wouldnt have cost more  than 79p per every  £100  of the outstanding  monthly  balance  on his 
credit card. 
This policy covered  Mr C in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because  he didnt think there 
was enough information to show Lloyds  had mis-sold the policy.
Mr C disagreed. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
The sale took place  over 25 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Lloyds havent  been able to provide  us with any of the documents  from the time of the sale 
or confirm  how the policy was sold. So I dont  know exactly what was discussed about PPI or 
how it was presented. 
But from what I know about all the different  ways  Lloyds sold PPI during the period Mr C was 
sold the policy, I think its likely that it wouldve made  Mr C aware  that PPI was optional and I 
think Mr C wouldve had PPI added to his account because he chose to take it. I understand 
Mr C might not remember this, but Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given  a choice 
or that he didnt agree  to buy it.
To be fair to Mr C I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised  sale as this puts Mr C 
in the best position. What this means  is that Lloyds  not only had to provide information about 
PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Mr C could  make  an informed choice 
about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend PPI that the policy  
was suitable to his needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN83355582I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But from what  I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr C for 
the following  reasons:
He was eligible for the policy  and although  Mr C has told us he suffered from a pre-
existing medical condition hes also told us he has never had any time off work because 
of it. So it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made  it difficult to make a successful 
claim. 
Mr C says he was entitled to some  level of sick pay and had savings he could use to 
help make  his credit  card payments  if he couldnt  work.  But a successful claim on the 
policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered  his credit card payments for 
potentially longer for up to 12 months  if he was unable to work  due to accident or 
sickness or lost his job. So I think the policy  wouldve  provided  a useful benefit to Mr C 
in his circumstances.  
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to him at the time and if 
he decided he no longer wanted the policy he couldve  cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr C information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if Lloyds  did give all of the information as it shouldve.  But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr C has told us about his circumstances at 
the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information by Lloyds on the policy.  
So it follows  that I dont  think Lloyds did anything wrong when it sold PPI to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8335558