K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains about the quality of a car she acquired under a hire purchase agreement  
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Volkswagen Finance)(VWFS).
background
Mrs S acquired a used  car under a hire purchase  agreement with VWFS in November 2017  
for around  £25,000.  The car was six months old and had covered around  9,000 miles.
Prior to collecting the car, Mrs S tells us that she asked the supplying dealer to remove some  
scratches from the paintwork. But she explains that when she picked up the car, she was 
unhappy the scratches hadnt been removed. She had to take the car back  to the supplying 
dealer to have  the issue fixed.
Within a few weeks  of acquiring the car, Mrs S contacted the supplying  dealer about 
problems she had changing from 3rd to 4th gear.  It asked her to monitor  this and to contact it 
if the problem  persisted.  
Mrs S took the car back to the supplying dealer in January 2018 because  warning lights 
were intermittently illuminating on the dashboard. It found a fault with the parking brake auto 
hold button and replaced it. 
Mrs S contacted the supplying dealer again the following month  because  she says warning 
lights were still coming on intermittently. It investigated and found various fault codes relating 
to the steering column so it changed a part and thought  the issue was resolved. It found fault 
codes for the cruise  control but couldnt find anything further wrong  with it. It also updated 
the infotainment  software and couldnt find any further problems. 
Mrs S says the problems  with the car persisted so she contacted VWFS  and asked if she 
could hand it back. She was unhappy with the support she received  from the supplying  
dealer. VWFS looked  into things but rejected Mrs Ss request. It spoke to the supplying  
dealer and said that all problems had been  resolved, and that if there were any further  
issues, she should take the car back for another inspection.  Initially Mrs S didnt want to take 
the car back  to the supplying dealer because she wasnt  able to get a suitable courtesy car. 
However, from what I can see, Mrs S did take the car back  in April 2018  but the dealer was 
still unable to find the faults she was complaining  about.
Unhappy with how her complaint  was being  handled, Mrs S asked our service  to look into 
things. 
Since bringing the complaint to us, Mrs S agreed  to sell the car back to the supplying dealer 
in October 2018.  The supplying  dealer settled the finance agreement  and paid her £1,000.  
Mrs S is unhappy she had so many  issues with the car and that shed effectively lost some  
of her deposit  which was £2,114.14.  
Ref: DRN84326262Our investigator looked into the complaint and decided to uphold it. She thought  the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality so she didnt  think  it was fair that Mrs S should lose out. She 
recommended VWFS  refund Mrs S deposit,  less the £1,000  shed received from the 
supplying dealer for selling the car back to it. She thought Mrs S should  be compensated 
£50 for the scratches not being repaired. She also recommended  VWFS  compensate Mrs S 
10% of her monthly payment in recognition of the loss of use while the car was in the garage  
and for the impaired  use shed had. But our investigator said that she couldnt hold VWFS 
responsible for the customer service of the supplying dealer. 
VWFS didnt  agree. In summary,  it said that the problems with the scratches were the 
responsibility of the supplying  dealer. It said there hadnt been  any loss of use because  a 
courtesy car was offered.  VWFS didnt think there was sufficient  evidence  of ongoing 
problems with the car after the supplying dealer had carried out repairs.  VWFS  also pointed 
out that it hasnt  been notified of any issues  with the car since  Mrs S sold it back  to the 
supplying dealer. 
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance  agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. Our service is 
able to consider  complaint relating to these sorts of agreements. VWFS is the supplier of the 
goods under  this type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing  with a complaint  about 
their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers hire purchase agreements  such as Mrs Ss. 
Under a hire purchase  agreement, there is an implied term that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality. The CRA says that goods  will be considered of satisfactory quality where  
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would  consider satisfactory   taking into 
account the description of the goods,  the price  paid and other relevant circumstances. 
In Mrs Ss case  the car was used, with a cash price of around £25,000. It had covered 
around 9,000 miles and was six months  old when she acquired  it. Id have different 
expectations of it compared to a brand new car. But given the age, mileage and price paid, I 
think its fair to say that a reasonable person would have high expectations of it and wouldnt 
expect anything significant to go wrong soon after it was acquired, as it was almost brand 
new.   
issues with the car on collection
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mrs S asked for scratches  to be removed from the car 
prior to her acquiring it. I can see she wrote to the supplying dealer  the day after collecting 
the car to complain  that the work  hadnt been  carried out. The supplying  dealer 
acknowledged this and referred  the issue to a manager, so I think its more  likely than not 
that the work  wasnt carried  out, and therefore  the car wasnt  supplied in the condition it 
should have been. 
Ref: DRN84326263VWFS has said that the responsibility for this issue lies with the supplying dealer. But, as the 
supplier of the goods under this sort of agreement,  VWFS is also responsible for their quality 
 and that they conform to the contract.  In this case,  that didnt happen because  the 
scratches werent removed, as agreed. So Mrs S would have been  inconvenienced  and 
disappointed by having to contact the supplying dealer  again  and take her car back  to get 
the work  carried out.
In the circumstances, I think the £50 recommended by our investigator  is a fair way to 
resolve this part of the complaint. I think this is reflective of the trouble  and upset caused  to 
Mrs S.
ongoing issues with the car
Taking everything into account   including the price paid, the age and usage of the car, and 
when the faults became apparent  Im not persuaded the car was of satisfactory  quality 
when it was supplied  to Mrs S. So I think there has been a breach of contract.
The car required replacement parts  within a few months of Mrs S owning it. From looking at 
the evidence,  it also looks like there were various faults codes logged. I think  Mrs Ss 
account has been consistent  and credible.  Shes shown evidence of the warning lights  that 
were illuminating and I think it more likely than not that she experienced the problems shes  
mentioned, both before and after repairs were carried  out. 
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect the problems on the car that Mrs S 
experienced given it was almost brand new and cost over £25,000. 
I think Mrs S did provide an opportunity for the problems to be put right. She gave the 
supplying dealer more than one opportunity  to repair the car. And from what I can see, I 
think its more likely  than not that this didnt  happen.  I think, on balance, Mrs S decided to 
sell the car back to the supplying dealer because of the problems she was having.  However,  
I think she should have  been able to reject the car when she requested it. Therefore, I dont 
think she should lose out as a result  of selling the car back  to the supplying  dealer. 
In the circumstances, I think the recommendations made by our investigator are a fair way to 
resolve this part of the complaint. Mrs S should have her deposit returned  with interest. She 
received £1,000 when she sold her car back to the supplying dealer. So this amount should  
be deducted from the refund. 
I agree  with our investigator that Mrs S had impaired use of the car for most of the period 
that she owned it. She was also inconvenienced by having to return the car to the supplying  
dealer a few times to have  it inspected and repaired. Whilst the investigator didnt specifically 
mention the inconvenience caused  to Mrs S when setting out her redress  recommendations, 
and although I would  have made directions in a slightly different way, I think the total amount 
of compensation  that our investigator  recommended broadly seems  reasonable. I think  a 
10% refund of monthly  payments seems  like a fair way to compensate  Mrs S for the 
impaired use and overall inconvenience  the matter has caused her. 
Ref: DRN84326264service from the supplying dealer
I can fairly consider  a complaint  about  the antecedent negotiations  carried out by the 
supplying dealer against VWFS because section 56 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
provides that it can be held liable for these  negotiations. But I cant  fairly hold VWFS liable 
for the supplying dealers  customer  service after those negotiations  were concluded. So 
while Mrs S is unhappy  with the supplying dealers service, I cant hold VWFS responsible 
for this.  
Mrs S could take up her concerns with the supplying dealer directly. But I should point out 
that if shes unhappy with its response, it may not be something our service can look into if it 
is about customer service after the agreement was entered  into. 
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think the car was satisfactory  quality, and I dont think 
Mrs S should lose out. I also think Mrs S should  be compensated for the problems shes  
experienced and the overall  inconvenience  caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  
(trading as Volkswagen Finance)  should:
1.Refund Mrs S £1,114.14 (deposit  less £1,000). 
2.Interest should  be added to the above  amount at a rate of 8% per year simple  from 
the date the payment was made to the date of settlement*. 
3.Remove any adverse  information from Mrs Ss credit file.
4.Pay Mrs S a further £407.47. (£50 plus £357.47).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
*If VWFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mrs S how much  its taken  off. It should also provide Mrs S 
with a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8432626