K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Miss L complain that a used  car they purchased via a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage  Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  They  want to reject the car and 
cancel the agreement. 
background 
In July 2018 Mr W and Miss L acquired  a used car via five year hire purchase  agreement.  
The car was six years  old and had a mileage of around 32,500.  
Mr W says that after a few months  they noticed  an issue with the car juddering so he took it 
to a car centre where a wheel balance was carried out. Mr W says he was told there  was 
movement underneath  and he should  take the car back to the dealership  that supplied  it. 
Mr W was also advised that there  was a water ingress issue into the boot. 
In December 2018 Mr W contacted the dealership  via web chat and reported  it that he been 
told the transmission mountings needs  replacing  as car judders when accelerating.  He also 
complained about the leaking into the boot. 
The dealership asked Mr W to take the car to a garage it had selected. In January 2019 the 
car spent  three days at the garage  before being collected by Mr W. The garage  fixed  the 
boot issue but reported it wasnt able to find a fault with engine  mount  and had also found no 
fault with the gearbox. 
Mr W says that within a short time of taking  the car back  it became apparent  that the 
problems with the car had got worse.  He tried to contact the dealership  to complain again 
but says he wasnt  able to make  contact. He therefore emailed a complaint  to Advantage at 
the end of February 2019. 
Advantage said that as Mr W and Miss L had now had the car for over six months  the onus 
was with them to show that any faults with the car would have been  present or developing at 
the point of sale. Mr W arranged for the car to be inspected  at another  garage  and a vehicle 
health check report to be prepared. 
The garage inspected  the car in March 2019. The garages checks revealed  that there were 
faults with the cars shaft gaiters and play in the drive shafts that caused the clutch to slip 
and the engine to vibrate.  The garage also said there was play in the steering rack. Mr W 
sent the report to Advantage.  
Advantage said that the report didnt say whether  these faults  had been  present at the point 
of sale and asked  for the car to be independently  inspected. This independent inspection 
took place in June 2019. 
The independent engineer found faults with the cars gearbox and steering and said that 
these would require  further investigation. The independent  engineer noted that the car had 
passed its MOT  in July 2018 and that at the time theyd inspected it the car had been off the 
road for some time. 
The independent engineer said that in their opinion  these faults had not been  present at the 
point of sale as the issues  with the steering and gearbox were easily noticeable  even to 
someone with no mechanical  experience. They said the issues would have been picked up 
in any pre-purchase road test and had arisen through wear  rather  than any inherent defect. 
Ref: DRN84196542Advantage said that in light of the independent engineers findings  it wasnt upholding Mr W 
and Miss Ls complaint.  
Mr W and Miss L complained to this service. They said the problem with the car had arisen 
before theyd had it for six months  as they had complained about  the juddering, the grinding 
sounds and the unstable  feeling in December 2018. And these were the same issues  
identified by the independent engineer  in June 2019.  Mr W and Miss L said as they had 
driven the car for less than 3,000  miles they didnt agree that the problems with the car 
would be due to wear and tear. 
Mr W and Miss L said that as the faults  with the car had occurred  within the first six months  
of acquiring the car then the presumption was they had been present at the point of sale.  
They said they didnt  think car had been  of satisfactory quality when they had acquired it. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr W and Miss Ls complaint should be upheld. He said 
he didnt think there  was sufficient evidence to say the faults  found  with the car had been 
developing or present  at the point  of sale. And he thought Advantage had dealt with the 
complaint fairly. 
Our investigator said under the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (The Act) there  was an implied 
term that goods supplied would be of a satisfactory  quality. That is the goods  should meet  
the standard that a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory, taking into account any 
description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances  such  as age and 
mileage. 
Under the Act the quality  of goods includes their general state and condition  and other things 
like fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and 
durability. Our investigator said that the expectations  for a used car would be different from a 
new one. 
Our investigator said that he had seen evidence that the car had gone to the garage in 
January 2019  and a repair had been  made to the boot. No other faults had been found and 
no evidence had been provided  that there were issues with steering and gearbox until Mr W 
had complained to Advantage in February 2019. 
Our investigator said although  he appreciated the car had been driven for less that 3,000  
miles he believed the current issues with the car would have been evident much  sooner had 
they been present from the point  of sale. This was also the view of the independent  
engineer. 
Mr W and Miss L disagreed with our investigators view. They said they had raised the 
problem in December  2018 which was around  five months after they acquired the car. They 
said they thought their complaint had been  unfairly handled. 
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN84196543Looking at the evidence Ive seen  that Mr W attended the car centre in December 2018 and 
that there  he had the wheels balanced.  I dont know what else was said by the centre  as 
theres no report. However,  two days later Mr W contacted the dealership via the internet 
and he had a webchat with one of the agents.  Ive seen the transcript  of this chat and that Mr 
W says the car needs repairs  as he has been  told the transmission mountings need 
replacing as the car judders when accelerating. He also raises an issue with water getting 
into the boot.
The car is then booked into a garage selected  by the dealership for any necessary repairs.  
The garage returned the car and told Mr W that it was able to fix the boot but couldnt  
replicate the juddering. It provided  an invoice saying that there  were  no faults with the 
gearbox or with the engine mounts.
Mr W says it soon became evident that the problem  was still present and getting worse. He 
then complained to Advantage who requested the car was independently inspected. 
Although this inspection was in June 2019  I think its accepted  that the car hadnt been  
driven for some time so the faults found  by the independent engineer would have been 
present prior to the date of the inspection.  Ive seen that in the independent  engineers 
opinion, taking into account the additional  mileage and length  of time that had passed since  
the inception of the agreement, it was unlikely that the faults  would have been present or 
developing at the point of sale. They said the problem  with the steering and transmission 
would have been very obvious if present in July 2018 and would have been  raised  much  
earlier. 
Mr W and Miss L say that they raised the faults  with the steering  and transmission in 
December 2018  and so the presumption is they were present at the point of sale. This 
means the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when they acquired it.
As explained by our investigator under the Consumer  Rights Act there is an implied  term that 
the quality goods supplied  will be satisfactory. And what  is considered  satisfactory  is 
judged by what a reasonable  person would expect taking into account various things such as 
price and age.
Under the Act quality  of goods takes  into account  things like appearance,  safety  and 
durability. An older  car with miles on the clock isnt expected to be as good as a new car 
although both would  be expected to be roadworthy. I note the car had passed its MOT  in 
July 2018 shortly before being  acquired  by Mr W and Miss L.
From the evidence available to me it appears there  was no issue  with the car for the first 
five months from the inception of the agreement. And when it was investigated in January 
2019 the garage was unable to replicate any issue with juddering. Mr W says he was 
told the car runs like a dream. Mr W says that the problem  with the car then got worse 
and led to his complaint  to Advantage.
Under the Act there is a presumption that any issues that arise within  the first six months 
of an agreement would have been  developing or present at the point of sale. But I think  its 
important to note that this is a presumption and its for the retailer  to show that the fault 
wasnt present or developing  when the car was sold. This means  that not every fault found 
with a car in the first six month period after acquiring  it will automatically mean the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale. Nor does  it mean that every fault found 
within this period will be the responsibility  of the retailer to repair.
Ref: DRN84196544I think a reasonable  person would expect  a used car to have  issues  with maintenance and 
repairs arising from wear and tear over time. The components of a car cant reasonably be 
expected to last indefinitely  and here the car was coming up to being  six years old and 
although the mileage was low for its age I still think a reasonable person would expect 
repairs and maintenance to arise  after a reasonable period.
The independent engineer said in their report that the fault with the cars steering and 
transmission was easily  noticeable  and there  was no definitive proof  the faults had 
been present  since the point of sale and would have developed after the car had been 
sold due to in service wear.
Where evidence is missing or inconsistent  then its my role to decide what I think is the 
most likely thing to have happened. Here Mr W raised an issue  with the car juddering  in 
December 2018,  but no fault could be found by the garage in January 2019. I think this is 
because the issue  appears to have been  intermittent. I accept the opinion of the 
independent engineer that the fault he found  couldnt have  been  missed at the point of 
acquisition. 
So, I think its more likely  than not that the fault was developing in December 2018. 
However, I dont think I have enough evidence  to reasonably say it was present or 
developing from July 2018. I think the car was of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale. 
For the reasons  given  I think Advantage has acted fairly, and satisfied me through  their 
independent engineers report that there were no faults present at the point of acquisition,  
and so Im not upholding Mr Ws and Miss Ls complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not upholding Mr Ws and Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss L 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8419654