K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  about the advice  they received from Age Partnership Limited in 
relation to their lifetime mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs F have  complained separately  about their mortgage  provider.  
background
In what follows, I summarise  events in rather less detail that theyve been  presented.  No 
discourtesy is intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide. I focus on 
what I think is material to the outcome of the complaint.
In 2014, Mr and Mrs F took out a lifetime  mortgage with a mortgage provider following 
advice from Age Partnership. They borrowed £20,000 initially  and had a reserve  facility of a 
further £53,000. In 2015,  they borrowed a further £15,000. In 2018, Mr and Mrs F repaid the 
mortgage, including an early repayment charge. 
Mr and Mrs F say that Age Partnership didnt explain the early repayment charge. They say 
that Age Partnership  didnt mention gilt yields initially and it was only when they received  the 
offer letter from the mortgage provider that Mr F had a long conversation with Age 
Partnership about them. Mr F says that Age Partnership didnt explain that gilt yields  could 
drop sharply,  triggering huge  early repayment  charges.  
Mr and Mrs F also say that they are sure they told Age Partnership they wanted to repay the 
mortgage in 10 or 12 years and downsize to a smaller home. They  say that Age Partnership 
didnt take that into account. Mr and Mrs F say that they accept an early  repayment charge 
would be incurred but think that it should  be reasonable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Age Partnership had treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly.  Mr F 
didnt agree. As there  was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The central issues here are whether Age Partnership explained the early  repayment charge 
and made  a suitable recommendation. The starting  point is the point-of-sale  documentation  
from 2014. Those documents are contemporaneous, so they should  reflect  what was said 
and agreed at the time. Theyre  not fool-proof,  of course; its always  possible that information  
may be recorded incorrectly or omitted.  But its right to give some  weight to them.  
Ref: DRN85863862Age Partnerships written  recommendation to Mr and Mrs F includes the following: 
Early repayment  charges: Your attention  is drawn  to section 13 of the attached 
Key Features Illustration which highlights the early repayment charges associated 
with the recommended  Lifetime Mortgage.  These  plans are intended  to be long term 
commitments and therefore in the event that your circumstances  change  and you 
wish to repay part or all of the loan early you could incur an early repayment 
charge.
Section 13 of the key features illustration set out how the lender calculates  any early  
repayment charge,  the maximum early repayment  charge payable and examples of what
Mr and Mrs F may pay. 
Im satisfied that Age Partnership  explained the early repayment charge.  In any event, on 
Mr Fs own recollection of events, its clear that Age Partnership explained the early 
repayment charge  before  Mr and Mrs F entered into the mortgage. I appreciate that Mr F 
says that he raised  the issue with Age Partnership after they received the lenders offer but I 
dont think that alters the outcome here. 
Mr and Mrs F say that they told Age Partnership that they wanted to repay the mortgage in 
10 or 12 years and downsize to a smaller  home. Thats not consistent  with information 
recorded by Age Partnership. The recommendation records that Mr and Mrs F didnt  wish to 
move from their home  and that they werent  concerned if a plan had an early repayment 
charge, as it wasnt their intention to repay  the lending early. 
Ive considered this matter carefully.  On balance,  I prefer the information  recorded by 
Age Partnership. Thats because it was recorded at the time and sent to Mr and Mrs F. They  
could have objected  and corrected the information, if it wasnt accurate.  As against that, 
Mr and Mrs F are recalling events that occurred several years  ago. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs F but for the reasons Ive explained, there  are no grounds  
on which to uphold their complaint  against  Age Partnership. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 June  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8586386