K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI).  Mrs C says 
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold this type of cover to her in 2002.
background
Mrs C bought the MPPI policy  when she was reviewing her mortgage due a change  in 
circumstances. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld. But Mrs C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs C told us she was led to believe the MPPI was necessary to get her mortgage approved. 
And she specifically  said she understood she had to take it out in case she became ill.
However, these events were over 16 years ago and whilst I completely accept that Mrs C 
now honestly and genuinely feels the policy  was mis-sold to her, the facts  Ive seen dont 
support that.
This is because Mrs C appears to have  taken out the policy during a transfer  of equity 
(TOE) situation.  This usually occurs when  one of the borrowers no longer wants to be part of 
the mortgage, leaving the other as the sole mortgage holder.
I can see Mrs C took out the mortgage in early 2001 with someone  else and at that time they 
didnt buy any MPPI.  I therefore  think Mrs C would have been  able to see that having MPPI 
with a mortgage wasnt something that was compulsory. 
The TOE took place  in the summer  of 2002, around  18 months later.  But I note Mrs C wasnt  
actually sold any cover for being  off ill from work  - the MPPI policy only related to 
unemployment protection for her. I also see that she ticked a box saying she wanted this 
cover, on the TOE form. As there were both yes and no options  at this point on the form, I 
think she would have  again been  able to see the MPPI wasnt compulsory.
But to get the MPPI  cover, Mrs C actually had to go through another  step. This involved her 
filling out and signing a separate MPPI application form. She chose the option  on this form to 
only have unemployment  cover and she signed her name.
So I think these things  all show Mrs C was given a choice. They  also show,  quite strongly in 
my view, that the MPPI  was something  she wanted to have.  So I think  theres very 
persuasive evidence  that Nationwide properly  obtained  Mrs Cs consent.
Ref: DRN82650582This wasnt an advised sale. So Nationwide didnt need to ensure the policy was suitable  for 
Mrs C. Nationwides responsibility  was to make sure the information  it provided was clear,  
fair and not misleading - and overall,  I think it was. 
By looking at the documents, for example, I think Mrs C would have been able to see who 
was covered, what was covered and how much  she would  eventually need to pay for the 
policy. She was sent a letter describing  these things on 16 July 2002. Obviously I cant  say 
Mrs C was told everything she should  have been,  but I think she had enough information on 
which to make an informed choice.
Mrs C told us she had sickness protection with her job, implying that she didnt really need  
any MPPI.  But as Ive said, this was a non-advised  sale and the decision  whether to take 
the cover  out was for Mrs C to make. The policy also only covered unemployment and so 
had nothing to do with protecting her against  sickness or disability. Im afraid this means her 
points about already having good sick pay with her job arent  relevant.
The MPPI cost just over £8 per month  which I think was affordable  for Mrs C. It would have 
covered her in the event of losing  her job and paid out for up to a year if that happened. As 
her mortgage was secured against  her home,  not being able to make the repayments could 
have had serious consequences for her. 
So I think the MPPI was of use and I think thats  likely  to be the reason why Mrs C agreed to 
buy it. Im sorry to disappoint her, but the MPPI wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint  and I dont direct  
Nationwide Building  Society to do anything to put matters right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8265058