K821x#15Complaint
Mr P has complained that TSB Bank plc wont refund  transactions, which  he says he didnt 
make, and that it registered a fraud marker  against him.
Background
Mr P is disputing  six payments totalling  £12,921.70 to a gentlemans  club. The payments  
included three  single transactions for £2,200,  £3,300 and £3,300.
All the payments were  made with Mr Ps debit card and PIN. 
Mr P said he didnt  recognise the payments.  He admitted visiting the club on a night out with 
his brother but said he was drunk and couldnt  remember much.  He remembers  paying  for a 
few rounds of drinks  for no more  than £20 at a time.  And he paid for two dances, which  he 
said were no more  than £200 each. But he said he didnt authorise any payments  over £200.
He said when he bought the drinks, he entered his card into the card terminal,  confirmed the 
amount and then keyed  in his PIN. But, when paying  for the dances,  he said a staff member  
took the card from him and entered it into the terminal before handing it back to him to key in 
his PIN. He said no more  than £200  was displayed on the terminal.
He believes now that someone drugged him while he was in the club. He said the staff 
separated him from his brother and took him to a separate VIP room.  His brother left the club 
when he couldnt  find Mr P. He said he woke up the next morning in the club. 
He still had his card on him when he reported  the transactions  to the bank. It wasnt lost or 
stolen. He confirmed  that no one had access to his card and that he shielded his PIN when 
using the card terminal. But he also thinks someone couldve taken his card from him, if he 
were drugged, and that he mightve been shoulder  surfed by the cashier, who had been 
standing next to him.
He asked TSB for a refund and sent it an article about another customer  who had been 
drugged in the same club.
TSB decided  not to refund him. It considers he authorised the transactions because:
the payments  were  made with his card and PIN
he was in the club and admits  paying for drinks and two dances
he said the card was in his wallet  and no one else had access to his card or wallet 
his PIN wasnt stored anywhere.
his primary  concern was that he was charged  more than he thought hed paid, and 
he needed to take this up with the club owner.
TSB also contacted  the club. The club owner  confirmed that, for transactions  over £500, they 
ask customers to provide  photo ID and to sign a form giving consent to the transaction.  The 
club owner provided TSB with:
receipts for all the disputed transactions
a copy of Mr Ps driving licence
4 consent  forms for the transactions over £500,  signed by Mr P.
Ref: DRN80226452TSB closed  his account and registered a CIFAS  marker after declining his claim
Mr P was unhappy with TSBs decision and so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
told us hed reported the incident to the police. The police  confirmed that they had 
interviewed customers with similar complaints, but there was insufficient evidence for a 
prosecution.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but she decided not to uphold it. She felt unable  to 
conclude that the payments were fraudulent, after having reviewed the evidence.  She 
thought it was more likely that Mr P had authorised them.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators  view.  Hes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
evidence and relevant regulations. Mr P and TSB have read the investigators view,  so I 
wont repeat  every detail,  only those  which form the basis of my decision. However, I can 
assure both parties  that I have read the file, including the evidence, which they have  
provided. Having  done so, Im afraid  my review of the evidence has led me to the same  
overall conclusions  as those reached  by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Generally, TSB can hold Mr P liable for the disputed  payments if the evidence  suggests that 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ps genuine  card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed payments. But the regulations  relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So, I also need to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr P consented to the withdrawals 
being made.
Based on what Mr P has told us, there are only two scenarios which explain what  happened. 
He made  the payments himself,  but he didnt know what he was doing  because he was 
drugged. Alternatively,  a staff member shoulder-surfed him, stole  his card while he was 
drugged and used it in the club before returning  it to him at the end of the evening.
Its plausible  that someone else could steal his card while he was drugged or very drunk but 
Im afraid I dont think this is what happened because:
his original complaint  was that hed been  taken advantage of while drunk  or drugged 
and overcharged  by staff 
he said staff took his card from him while he was drunk or drugged before giving it 
back to him so that he could  type in his PIN
he admits  buying a couple of dances  but thought he was paying no more  than £200 
at a time
he said he shielded his PIN when using the card terminal, which  wouldve made it 
difficult, although not impossible, to shoulder-surf  him
Ref: DRN80226453It is also unusual in fraud cases for a third party to return the card and not spend  as much as 
possible in as short a time as possible.  And in this case, the person  wouldve also stolen his 
driving licence, as the merchant provided TSB with a copy of it. Again, this is unusual.
But I think the most compelling argument  against  third party theft,  is Mr Ps own admission 
that he paid for a couple of dances  and believes he was overcharged while he was drunk  or 
drugged.
I think this is a more plausible explanation. And to his credit,  Mr P has been  open and honest 
about his actions. He admits  he was in the club. He admits he used his card to pay for drinks 
and two dances. He said he thought he spent no more than £200 on two dances. 
I have also seen the police report and website  articles  about the club. Im sure Mr P is being 
truthful when he says he was drunk and believes he was also drugged.
Based on the evidence,  I think its more likely  than not that Mr P made the payments himself,  
but he was drunk and/or  drugged at the time.  I think he mightve forgotten how many 
payments hed made and thought he was paying  less than he was charged.  
The question which Mr P has asked  is can he consent to a payment while  drunk or 
drugged?
Im afraid the answer is yes. Under the Payment  Services Regulations 2009 consent  has a 
specific meaning. A payment transaction is regarded as having  been  authorised  by the payer 
only if the payer has given  its consent  to
the execution  of the payment transaction.
The regulations go on to say that such consent  must be given in the form, and in 
accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer and its payment service provider. 
The form and procedure  are usually set out in the terms and conditions.  I have  looked  at the 
current terms and conditions for TSB and it says:
Using a debit card;
 Youll need to enter your PIN or card details (including the long number on the 
front of the card)  when making payments online. Doing so means  that youve 
agreed to make the payment.
In addition, the Financial Conduct Authority has stated that,
 The procedure for giving  consent to execute  a payment transaction could  be in 
writing, by using a payment card and PIN.  (Payment Services and Electronic  
Money  Our Approach  2017)
In short,  this means that when Mr P used his card and PIN, he consented  to the payment  
instruction to the bank. Im afraid it doesnt matter  if he was drunk, drugged  or didnt  know 
the value of the transactions. He is still treated as having consented to them. And the use of 
his card and PIN are evidence at the very least of apparent authority which is sufficient for 
these purposes.
Ref: DRN80226454For these reasons, I dont  think  its unreasonable for TSB to conclude that Mr P authorised 
the transactions.
The copy  of his driving licence and the signed  forms also show  its more  likely than not that 
he consented to the transactions. But I dont  think  they are, on their own, evidence  of 
authorisation. Besides, I note there is only one signature, which looks  like a possible match 
for the signature  on our file. The other signatures dont match  Mr Ps signature. 
If Mr P believes he was overcharged and or drugged by the staff,  then he might want to 
consider court proceedings  against the club owner. But his complaint against the club owner 
is not a matter that this service can consider.
CIFAS
TSB agreed  to remove the CIFAS marker  in July 2017, after admitting that Mr P didnt  make  
a fraudulent claim and that it was wrong  to register one. TSB offered him £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by its decision.
However, the marker was still active by October  2019, when TSB eventually removed it. 
Mr P now wants  £1,000 for his distress and inconvenience.  Understandably, he was deeply 
offended by the suggestion he was a fraudster. He also says the marker made it difficult for 
him to open  a bank account.  Hes provided  a letter from a high street  bank, declining his 
application for an account.  He managed to open  an account with a new bank, but it closed 
his account very quickly. Although neither bank referred to the CIFAS marker, I am sure this 
was a decisive  factor. His account with TSB had a healthy  balance. I couldnt see anything 
which would raise alarms with another bank. I understand he found another  bank, which  hes 
been using since  October 2019.
Mr P also said he couldnt  easily register for utility  bills which in turn meant he didnt have 
any reliable proof of address. And he was deterred  from applying  for credit, accommodation,  
mortgage. He added  that the marker  also affected  his job in the jewellery sector as he was 
forced to carry around large amounts of cash on his person placing him at a greater personal 
risk of being  robbed. However,  he hasnt provided any evidence showing these additional 
difficulties.
In these circumstances, it seems the CIFAS  marker  added to the inconvenience of finding a 
bank account  but had little other  impact. I consider that £500 is a fair reflection of the 
inconvenience caused to Mr P.
Im very sorry for what has happened  to Mr P. This will be disappointing news for him, but I 
hope the reasons for my decision are clear.  
my final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding  Mr Ps complaint about the disputed  transactions.
I am upholding  his complaint about the CIFAS marker and I am asking TSB to pay him £500 
for his distress and inconvenience caused  by the CIFAS marker.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Ref: DRN80226455Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8022645