K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account called an Advance account.  
Mr W paid a monthly fee for the account and received several potential benefits in 
return. He thinks  that HSBC should refund him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Ws complaint. The adjudicator didnt 
think that HSBC had mis-sold the Advance account to Mr W and didnt  recommend  that it 
should give him any money back. 
Mr W didnt agree with adjudicators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,  
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do in Mr Ws case. Ive looked  into 
everything that Mr W and HSBC have told us or sent us about the complaint and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he believes HSBC mis-led him into thinking he had to 
take the Advance account so that he could  get a mortgage. Hes told us that he and his wife, 
Mrs W, were trying to take out a mortgage when (they) were  told (they)  needed  an Advance  
Account and that he would not have opened a premium account without being informed 
that (he and his wife) needed  it for the mortgage .
During our investigation, Mr W has told us that HSBC  also sold his wife an Advance  account.  
He has explained  that she complained to HSBC about mis-selling and that it upheld her 
complaint, but not his. He doesnt think this can be fair.
We did not assess Mrs Ws complaint directly, as HSBC upheld  it without  it coming to us, but 
Mr and Mrs W have  asked us to consider what happened with her complaint alongside Mr 
Ws case. From the evidence they have sent us, I can see that from their perspective the two 
cases seem  to have been closely connected;  and Im satisfied that they have given  us their 
agreement to review evidence from Mrs Ws case in connection with Mr Ws complaint. I am 
happy to do this. But I would like to make it clear  that I am only considering  issues  from Mrs 
Ws complaint and her dealings with HSBC that are directly  relevant  to Mr Ws complaint. I 
am not opening  a new case for Mrs W. This decision  is solely  concerned with Mr Ws 
complaint. However,  where relevant, I have referred to correspondence from both Mr W and 
Mrs W and to events involving either of them. 
HSBC has told us that Mr and Mrs W took out their mortgage in 2007 and that it sold an 
Advance account to Mrs W at around the same time, but that it didnt  sell Mr W an Advance 
account until 2008. Clearly, this sequence  of events means  that Mr and Mrs W would have 
already had their mortgage before HSBC sold the Advance account to Mr W, which  would 
Ref: DRN88238462have made  it very unlikely  that HSBC could  have mis-led him into thinking  he had to buy his 
Advance account in order to get a mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs W have  told us that HSBC did not uphold Mr Ws complaint because  the dates  
did not match up initially as (the fees for Mr Ws account) started being taken in 2008  and 
(their) mortgage started in 2007 and so they seem to have accepted the dates  that HSBC  
has quoted. However,  they have disagreed with many other  aspects of HSBCs description 
of what happened. 
 
Mr and Mrs W have  told us that in 2008 HSBC wrongly switched the Advance  account from 
Mrs W to Mr W and started to charge him fees without his permission. In a letter  to HSBC, 
Mrs W said the fees were taken from my account  first, and then from my husbands  
account. In recent  correspondence  with us, Mr and Mrs W have expanded on this point to 
say that they initially  had one Advance account in Mrs Ws name to allow them  to take out a 
mortgage, which was somehow transferred  into Mr Ws name in 2008. As soon  as the fee 
stopped being taken  from (Mrs Ws) account, it started being taken from (Mr Ws) account. 
Theyve also said that they did not open  two Advance accounts, but had one account  that 
HSBC switched between  them.  
Mr and Mrs W have  reasoned  that if HSBC mis-sold the Advance  account to Mrs W (which it 
accepts it did), then as they believe it transferred  the account to Mr W without permission, it 
follows logically that it must also have mis-sold the Advance account to Mr W. 
 
I have seen a copy of HSBCs final response letter to Mrs W about her complaint. This 
shows that when  it upheld her case,  it refunded her the fees she had paid for her Advance 
account for a period of around eleven months  from early 2007 to early  2008. Both Mr W and 
HSBC seem to agree  that HSBC then stopped  charging Mrs W fees, and I am satisfied that 
it did so. But if HSBC  did switch the Advance account to Mr W and start to charge him fees 
without his permission,  I would certainly regard  its actions  as unfair and unreasonable.  And 
whether or not it did so is at the heart of this complaint.  
Most of the events  which led to this complaint happened over a decade ago and not 
surprisingly neither  party has been able to send  us definitive evidence to show  what took 
place, so I cant tell for sure what occurred. Instead,  I have looked at all the evidence that I 
do have and the circumstances at the time to assess what  is most likely to have happened.  
Firstly, Im satisfied that there probably were two Advance accounts. Both parties have 
referred to two account numbers and it seems clear  to me that the first was in Mrs Ws name 
and the second in Mr Ws. Im equally satisfied that Mrs Ws account was opened in 2007 
and Mr Ws in 2008. It also seems  highly likely that HSBC closed Mrs Ws Advance  account  
in 2008. 
It would be very unusual for HSBC to have transferred an account  fro one person to another  
in the way Mr and Mrs W have described.  I cant see any reason for it to do this; it would 
receive the same fees and have to provide the same benefits irrespective of whether the 
account was in Mr Ws name or Mrs Ws. It seems  more likely to me that HSBC  sold the 
account to Mr W directly,  although I cant be sure exactly how this came about. 
On our questionnaire,  Mr W told us that HSBC sold him the account  during a meeting with 
one of HSBCs representatives. However, this is not really consistent  with the description of 
how he believes HSBC transferred the account  to him without telling him. Given the length  of 
Ref: DRN88238463time that has passed, its possible  that Mr W may be remembering a meeting from the time 
when HSBC sold Mrs W her Advance account, which Mr W may well have attended. 
Similarly, Mr W has told us that HSBC  recommended the account to him whereas HSBC has 
said that it sold the account on an information only, or non-advised, basis. Again, I cant be 
sure what  happened.
The adjudicator who looked into this complaint thought it was unlikely that HSBC 
recommended the Advance account to Mr W and assessed the case  as if HSBC  had made  
an information only sale to him. In recent  correspondence, Mr and Mrs W have told us that 
they think it was appalling for the adjudicator to take this approach. In the absence of firm 
evidence, I think the adjudicators approach was reasonable, but in fairness to Mr and Mrs 
W, I have considered this case as if HSBC  did make a recommendation. 
Before HSBC made its recommendation, irrespective of whether it did so during a meeting, 
or over the phone or in some other way, it should have checked that the Advance  account 
was right for Mr Ws financial circumstances and told him about its cost and benefits so he 
could decide if he wanted it. 
I dont know what HSBC  did or didnt ask Mr W about his circumstances and there are no 
call recordings  or detailed  notes  from the time about what took place. So I have  looked  at the 
potential benefits  of the Advance account  and compared them  to Mr Ws financial situation, 
and relevant spending habits, to see if HSBCs recommendation was reasonable. 
Amongst other benefits, in 2008  the Advance account offered customers  worldwide family  
travel insurance, fee-free withdrawals from cash machines abroad and reduced interest 
rates on overdrafts compared to those it charged  customers with fee-free  accounts.
I understand that Mr W travelled to Europe,  and used cash machines while he was there. I 
can also see from the account details that HSBC has sent us that he overdrew his account 
quite frequently.  So it seems to me that the Advance account had potential benefits which 
may have  been  useful  to Mr W and I think it was reasonable for HSBC to recommend  it to 
him.
I accept that HSBC may not have told Mr W everything about the Advance  account, but as 
HSBCs recommendation  seems to have  been reasonable, I dont think  fuller  information 
would have made a significant difference. 
Mr and Mrs W have  told us that they had their own car breakdown cover and so didnt need 
this benefit from the account. However,  HSBC  didnt include car breakdown  cover  as one of 
the benefits of the Advance account until after Mr W had bought the account,  so this wasnt  
significant at the time. 
Mr and Mrs W have  also told us that they didnt notice that HSBC was taking the fees from 
Mr Ws account until quite recently.  HSBC has told us that from 2008 onwards it sent 
numerous letters to Mr W about  the benefits  and the fees of the Advance account. I accept 
that it probably did this as part of its usual service. So Im satisfied that HSBC  didnt try to 
conceal the fees or benefits of the account  from Mr W. I acknowledge that its perfectly 
possible that he may not have noticed  all these details until recently, but I think HSBC did 
enough to keep him informed. 
Ref: DRN88238464So in summary,  from the evidence  I have seen, I dont think that HSBC  transferred the 
Advance account from Mrs W to Mr W without his permission; and I also think it unlikely that 
HSBC mis-sold the Advance  account to Mr W in any other way. I think its more likely  that 
HSBC recommended the account to Mr W and he chose to take it as he had a potential  
need for some of the benefits. 
On a different  matter,  in some of the correspondence that Mr and Mrs W have sent to us, 
they commented to HSBC  that at one point they went into one of its branches to try to close 
Mr Ws Advance account, but HSBC wouldnt do so. They said that they then tried to do it 
over the phone but couldnt, and then returned  to a branch where HSBC finally  agreed to 
close the account. 
Mr and Mrs W havent told us much  about  their attempts to close  Mr Ws Advance account  
and I dont know when  they did so, why they may have encountered difficulties or how long it 
took before  things  were resolved. Potentially, this is a distinct  and separate  issue  from mis-
selling. 
Although I can see that HSBC told Mr and Mrs W where they could find its cancellation 
policy for the Advance account, I dont think it has investigated what  happened  during their 
visits to its branch or during the phone call. And I havent covered it in this decision. So if Mr 
and Mrs W wish to raise this further with HSBC, they are free to do so. In due course, they 
may also be able to bring it to us as a separate complaint. However, I cant give them  any 
advice about this, or comment on the likely outcome of any such complaint they may choose 
to make.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ws complaint about HSBC  UK 
Bank Plc. I am not going to tell it to give him any money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020 .
Steve Townsley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8823846