K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr P says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr P has said that the PPI was added without his knowledge. But I think Capital One made it 
clear that Mr P didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Capital One has confirmed the PPI was taken out in a phone call to activate  the credit  card 
which took place  after the application had been  completed and processed. It no longer  has a 
record of the call but it has sent us a copy of the telephone  guidance process from around 
that time which it says it would have expected its staff to follow  when selling PPI over the 
phone. Capital One says this would reflect the conversation if would have had with Mr P. 
And whilst I cant  be certain exactly what was discussed in the call, this document  does 
direct the staff member to ask for a customers permission  before adding PPI to the account.  
As I have no evidence to make me think  otherwise, it seems more  likely than not that the 
staff member would  have followed this process.
Ive also seen copies  of statements from Mr Ps credit card account. These  show that the 
charge for the PPI was listed as a separate entry. So if Mr P hadnt  agreed to take out the 
PPI, or it was added  without his knowledge,  I think he would have questioned this with 
Capital One when he saw the payments on his statements. 
So based  on what Ive seen and what I know about  Capital  Ones sales practices  at that 
time, I think  its more likely that Capital One made  Mr P aware that the policy  was optional 
and he chose to take it, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it  even if he may not 
recall that now.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr P got the information he needed  to decide  for himself if 
it was right for him.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
It also appears that the cover would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong. 
From what  Mr P has told us, he would only have received  statutory sick pay from his 
employer if he was too ill to work  this is likely to have been  significantly  less than his 
usual earnings.  But this policy could have paid out 10% of the outstanding balance for up 
Ref: DRN85796902to 12 months and this would be in addition to, and potentially for longer than, his statutory 
sick pay. And the policy would also have provided cover  for the same  length of time if he 
was to lose his job. Mr P has said he may have had some savings he could have used, 
although he is unable  to recall the amount, but by having this policy  he could have 
protected his savings  for another purpose  or used them to help pay for other living  
expenses. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8579690