K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained to esure  Insurance Limited about repairs  carried  out to his car when he 
made a claim under  his car insurance policy.
background
Mr Ds car was damaged  while parked in April 2018. He made  a claim to his insurer, esure. 
Mr D complained as he had to return his car to the approved repairer a number of times  
because he said it hadnt been fixed.  
In October  2018 esure paid Mr D £200 compensation as it agreed hed received a poor 
service from the approved  repairer.  It said if Mr D provided a diagnostics  report  from the 
manufacturer dealership which showed the remaining issues  were  incident related, esure 
would look to cover the costs of the report and repairs. 
Mr D provided  a health check report from a dealership  garage.  The dealership said it thought  
the remaining  issues were  potentially caused  by the incident. 
esure said the health check  report  wasnt  enough  to evidence that the issues were  caused 
by the incident. 
Mr D asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought that some  of the issues  
were caused  by the incident. So she recommended esure take responsibility for alignment 
issues that remained  and that its approved repairer should carry out these  repairs.  
Mr D felt all of the issues identified were linked to the incident. 
esure didnt  agree. It said the approved repairer carried out a geometry test after the repairs  
and this was within tolerance.  It doesnt agree theres sufficient evidence to say the 
alignment issue is related  to the incident. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The timeline provided by esure shows that Mr D complained that his car was vibrating and 
pulling to one side the day after he collected  his car from the approved  repairer  in July 
2018. 
Mr Ds car was returned twice to the approved repairer. Mr D said there was vibration  and 
pulling to the side when driving  above  50 mph. The approved repairer  couldnt  find a 
problem and so sent Mr Ds car to a manufacturer dealership. 
esures notes read that the manufacturer  dealership  said the problem might be two flat spots  
on the front two tyres.  The approved repairer had replaced the front near side tyre and both 
rear tyres. So esure says it  and the independent engineer  who inspected Mr Ds car later 
in July 2018  believes its more likely that the flat spots were caused after repair.  
Ref: DRN86939752Our investigator explained in her view that we havent seen a report  or evidence  related to 
flat spots on Mr Ds tyres. 
On 22 July 2018 an independent  engineer  reported  that Mr Ds car required further work. 
The engineer recommended a number of rectification  repairs, but in particular, the following:
3. On inspection of the vehicle it was noted  that 3 of the tyres had been changed as 
part of the claim on notice, the fourth  remaining tyre was filled to the right hand front.
It is (name of car manufacturers)  recommendation that as the vehicle is a permanent  
4 wheel drive the tyres should be replaced  in pairs to avoid transmission  wind up.
The new tyres were measured at 8mm and the right hand front at 6mm.
In the first instance  the right hand  front tyre should  be replaced with a new matching  
tyre as a supplementary  to the original  estimate.
The vehicle should be road tested  up to motorway speeds to check  for the vibration, 
should the vibration still be present further  investigation will be required.
esure says the engineer signed  off the rectification work carried out by the approved repairer 
in August 2018. Mr D told us that the independent  engineer told him he had test driven 
Mr Ds car. Mr D says he finds this hard to believe as he says the vibrating issue is obvious 
and is still there. 
In November 2018 Mr D provided esure with a health check report from a manufacturer 
dealership dated 22 October 2018.  It identified  the following issues:
Air bag light on, steering wheel buttons not working,  horn not working  requires 
replacement slip ring. 
Customer complained of vibrating and pulling to the left, requires 4wheel balancing. 
Wheel alignment required. 
For all of the issues, the dealership said potential caused by accident.  
In a covering email  to Mr D, which esure  has seen, the dealership wrote:
Having carried out recently  a wheel alignment and Visual Health Check  on this 
vehicle we have  found that there  is still a vibration  through the vehicle.
We cannot visually see any signs of damage to the suspension/steering to the 
vehicle so would suggest the vehicle go back to the Body Shop where the repairs  
were carried  out for further investigation.
For us to start removing  parts to check if anything is bent/warped/damaged is going 
to incur charges  of £154.80 an hour.
We would  strongly advise an Insurance engineer to road test the vehicle in view of it 
being returned to the repairer.
Mr D has complained since  the first repairs were  carried out that his car vibrates and pulls to 
the left  which it didnt do before. Mr Ds car was damaged in both the rear and front as it 
was hit while parked   and also hit the kerb.  
A wheel alignment  check has been  carried out by both the approved  repairer and the 
dealership  but the vibrating issue remains. So I dont think   because an alignment check  
was carried out  that this means esure properly repaired  Mr Ds car. 
Ref: DRN86939753So from the information available I think - on balance - the vibration and pulling issue was 
caused by the incident.  I therefore think esure is responsible for repairing Mr Ds car so that 
the vibration and pulling to the left is rectified. 
Mr D says that he believes  the split ring was damaged in the incident - and therefore the 
issues with the steering  wheel, horn and airbag  are also related. 
Mr D first reported  the issues with the steering wheel, horn and airbag to esure in October 
2018. So although these are issues also highlighted by the dealership as potentially caused  
by the incident  there isnt enough  for me to safely conclude that these issues were  caused 
by the incident related damage. 
So I agree with the investigators recommendations to put things right  with a small addition.  
I think its fair and reasonable for esure  to cover  Mr Ds costs for obtaining a health  check  
report from the dealership  garage. This is because I think Mr D has done enough to show 
that the vibration and pulling issue is incident  related.  Mr D has provided  an invoice receipt 
which weve  forwarded to esure. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
arrange for the vibration and pulling issue in Mr Ds car to be repaired. 
Reimburse Mr D for the amount he paid for the dealership  health  check report  
adding interest at 8% from the date of the report to the date it reimburses him.
If esure  Insurance  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr D how much  its taken off. It should 
also give Mr D a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8693975