K820x#14Complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain about  problems  they experienced making loan payments  following 
an account switch  to Nationwide Building Society. 
Background
In November 2017 Mrs and Mr C opened  a new current account with Nationwide and 
completed an account switch from their existing bank. Mrs and Mr C wanted to move  their 
direct debit payments  to the new account with Nationwide. Nationwide says it set up a direct 
debit to pay a car loan to another business  on 1 December 2017. 
Nationwide says the loan provider claimed the first payment on 22 December 2017 and it left 
Mrs and Mr Cs current account on 27 December 2017. But the January 2018  direct debit 
wasnt requested from the loan provider. Mr C was subsequently able to make up the missed 
payment without any adverse information being reported on his credit  file. 
Mrs and Mr C complained  about what had happened and Nationwide  responded on 
13 March 2018.  Nationwide  confirmed it had set up a direct debit and claimed  the payment 
directly from the loan provider. The payment was made on 27 December  2017  and sent to 
the loan provider. 
Mrs and Mr C referred  their complaint  to our service and it was passed to an investigator. 
She didnt  find that Nationwide  had made  a mistake.  Mrs and Mr C remained dissatisfied so 
their complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs and Mr C have been somewhat caught between  two businesses  that are 
giving different information. In this case,  Im looking at Nationwides  involvement  and 
whether its made any errors. 
Nationwides systems evidence shows it set up a direct debit on 1 December 2017 and 
started the payment process on 22 December 2017.  The funds left Mr and Mrs Cs account  
on 27 December 2017 as requested. Im satisfied that the payment was made  directly  to 
Mr Cs loan provider, not sent back to Mrs and Mr Cs previous bank. Having considered  all 
of the evidence, I havent seen anything to show Nationwide made a mistake  with the 
December 2017  payment.  
Nationwide says the loan provider didnt  collect  any other payments from it via the direct 
debit instruction and the information provided indicates thats the case. Given Nationwide  
paid the loan provider in December 2017, I think its likely it would have  continued had the 
payments been  requested. But no further  payments  appear to have been  requested  via the 
loan providers direct  debit. 
I can see that the situation  has been  confusing as neither  business  has accepted 
responsibility for the problems Mrs and Mr C experienced. But, having looked at 
Nationwides actions,  I havent been persuaded that it made  an error or failed to pay Mr Cs 
loan provider as requested. As I havent found  anything to show Nationwide made a mistake  
Ref: DRN83603962and I think it dealt with Mrs and Mr Cs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8360396