K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC wont refund around £23,000 that he lost when he 
was the victim of a scam.  He thinks HSBCs  staff must have been  involved in the scam. 
background
In April 2018 Mr P was the victim of a scam.  He was contacted by a man purporting to be 
from the National Crime Agency (NCA).  He was told that HSBC staff were  giving out details 
of his and other accounts to scammers and that this was being  investigated. Mr P says the 
scammer was able to tell him exactly how much money  he had in his account. And because 
he always shredded  his statements, it gave him greater confidence that he was dealing  with 
a genuine person. Mr P was persuaded to make several transfers in branch over the course 
of a few days,  believing he was assisting the authorities. He was told these would help the 
NCA identify  which person at the bank  was responsible and his funds would then be 
returned. The scammer told Mr P to have a cover story  ready in case he was questioned by 
the bank. Mr P says he was intending  to say the money was for a family emergency. 
Mr P says he first attempted to make  a transfer  for £15,000 at his local branch. But the staff 
persuaded him that as it was a large  amount,  he should go home and think  about it. Mr P 
says he reported  this back to the scammer  who told him not to go to that branch anymore 
but to try the surrounding branches  to try to catch corrupt staff there.  
Mr P then made  the following transfers from his account most of which happened over the 
counter in each  branch. He says other  than in the first branch, where  his transfer never  
happened, he wasnt asked any questions by bank staff. 
Transaction Date & Time Branch Amount Beneficiary
0 09 April 2018- Morning R N/A N/A
1 09 April 2018 11.14am B £4,500 A
2 10 April 2018 1.39pm B2 £4,400 A
3 11 April 2018 10.26am B £5,000 B
4 11 April 2018 11.37am Kiosk £4,500 B
5 12 April 2018 10.41am H £5,000 B
Around a week  later, when Mr P didnt hear more he realised hed been the victim  of a scam 
and reported the matter  to HSBC and the police. HSBC made efforts  to recover  his money, 
but no funds remained  in the beneficiary  accounts. 
Mr P brought the matter  to our service. He thinks  HSBCs staff must have been involved as 
the scammer  had details  about his account  and transactions. HSBC have declined  to offer a 
refund as they say Mr P authorised the transactions. 
On 15 January 2020 I issued a provisional  decision  in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  them to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Ref: DRN83858072Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to their customer  if they make  a 
payment in circumstances  where they have  reasonable  grounds (although  not 
necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of their customer (known as the Quincecare duty).    
Regulated firms like HSBC are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably  in their dealings  
with Mr P when he made five payments totalling £23,400 to two new payees over a period of 
four days, or whether they should  have done  more than they did.
The Banking  Protocol
The Banking Protocol  is a multi-agency initiative between the Police, financial sector  
organisations (including banks, building societies and the post office)  and Trading Standards 
aimed at identifying customers who are in the process of being defrauded and implementing 
safeguarding procedures to prevent their repeat victimisation and further loss of funds. It 
has been fully in force since March 2018. 
Ref: DRN83858073In broad terms, according to UK Finances  toolkit for PSPs,  financial businesses commit to: 
Look out for any unusual or out of character withdrawals and to implement the Banking 
Protocol procedure when such transactions are identified.
Discreetly  question  the customer about  the withdrawal or transaction and their reasons 
for making it, keeping  in mind  that the customer may have been told they are helping to 
catch a corrupt bank employee  and may have  been given a cover  story to tell if asked 
about the transaction.
Consider the responses against what they expect as normal  activity on the individuals  
account. If they are concerned or suspicious that the customer  may be the victim  of 
fraud, they should notify a senior  member of staff,  who should take the customer  to a 
quiet area and ask further questions to establish  more details.
If the senior colleague believes  the customer is the victim of fraud, either as a result of 
the answers provided or through their general behaviour,  they should call the Police 
immediately who will attend the branch  to speak to the customer.  
The Banking Protocol  procedures are not limited to elderly or vulnerable  customers, or 
certain fraud  types, and bank staff are encouraged to contact the Police  even if they are not 
sure. For example,  UK Finances Bank Colleague FAQs  says:
Does it only relate to elderly or vulnerable customers?
No, whilst crime data analysis and demographics indicate that the 70 and over age group 
are targeted more  than other age groups for courier & rogue trader  frauds, anyone can be 
the victim of fraud and we should strive  to protect  all customers from financial harm.
Does the Banking Protocol only relate to courier fraud or rogue trader  offences?
No. Customers may have been defrauded in several  ways.  Courier fraud, and rogue trader  
offences are two of the most common offences in which suspects ask the victim to attend 
banks to make withdrawals or transfers.  However, customers  may have been the victim  of 
another fraud, such as romance fraud or investment fraud. The Banking Protocol process 
should be followed for any transaction which you feel is unusual as you may prevent the 
customer from becoming a victim of fraud.  
Im a bank  colleague  what  should  I look out for?
When a customer requests a cash withdrawal  or transfer, firstly consider your internal 
training and procedures. In the circumstances presented does the request appear to be out 
of character. Is the request for a significant amount? Does the account history show any 
similar withdrawals  or transfers recently? Has the customer  provided  an explanation for the 
withdrawal? Are they elderly, vulnerable, upset or nervous? Is the customer  on the phone  to 
while making the request (in some cases suspects stay on the phone to the victims whilst 
they are conducting  transactions)?  Bear in mind that as part of the fraud the customer may 
have been convinced, they are helping to catch corrupt  bank staff and given a story to tell 
you.   
Im a bank  colleague  what  are my responsibilities?
If you identify a customer requesting a cash withdrawal  or transfer you think  is unusual, 
commence the Banking  Protocol  procedure. Ask the customer questions about the 
transaction. Consider  the Banking  Protocol  questions  on the prompt  card. If you have any 
concerns raise the issue with a senior colleague.   
Ref: DRN83858074I think a customer may be a victim but Im not sure. Should I still follow the Banking 
Protocol?
Yes. If you have questioned the customer and are still not sure, the police  urge you to still 
call them. It is not possible to answer  every what if so if you are suspicious or concerned  
but are not completely sure then still report this following the Banking Protocol. You might 
prevent a customer becoming the victim  of a crime.
Did HSBC act fairly and reasonably in this case?
Mr P thinks  the staff at HSBC must  have  been  involved  as the scammer was able to tell him 
the exact balance of his account. He says he always shreds  his bank statements and the 
scammer couldnt have  known  this. I havent seen further evidence  to support the direct 
involvement of HSBCs  staff and Im mindful  that scammers can be very sophisticated  in the 
methods they use. So, on balance, I dont think its more likely than not that one of HSBCs 
staff members was involved in the scam  itself. But Ive gone on to consider whether there 
are other reasons why HSBC ought to have done  more to protect Mr P from financial harm. 
As Ive explained, I consider that as a matter  of good practice HSBC should have been on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions. This is particularly important during 
a period of time, which sadly we are in, where fraud is increasingly prevalent.
One of the objectives of the Banking  Protocol is, of course, to disturb  this growing pattern of 
fraud and provide more protection to consumers  who have been under threat from 
sophisticated forms of fraud, with social engineering  at its heart, more than ever before.  Its 
also the case, as I touched upon above,  that banks are generally  more familiar with fraud  - 
and therefore  better  placed to help spot it - than the average consumer.
I think its fair to say that the primary concern of the Banking Protocol is consumer protection 
rather than, for example,  to help financial businesses avoid liability.  So the skill of bank staff 
and the types  of questions that get asked in the particular  circumstances of a transaction   
and most  notably  when  a consumer wishes to withdraw or transfer an unusually large or out 
of character amount  of money - will be important. 
Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr Ps request to make the first transfer that was processed  on 
9 April 2018 of £4,500,  and indeed all transfers that followed totalling £23,400, ought to have 
been considered as unusual and out of character. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr P hadnt, in the previous year, made transfers  in branch;
He typically used  cheques for any larger transactions;
He hadnt,  in the previous year, paid out more than about  £2,400  in any one 
transaction irrespective  of the method of payment.
Mr P was 81 at the time of the transactions and his age is a relevant factor here.  His age 
group are disproportionately targeted by scammers.  This is recognised by the Banking 
Protocol and the BBAs report improving  outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances (although HSBC should be on the lookout for any unusual or out of character  
transaction, whether or not Mr P was vulnerable). I think  this is something the branch staff 
should have considered when thinking about whether Mr P might be at risk of financial  harm  
when he attempted  to make the initial transfer.  
Ref: DRN83858075So, in all the circumstances,  I think there  were  several signs that Mr P could have been at 
risk, when he made the first payment, and that HSBC  branch staff ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  had some concerns on 9 April 2018. However, I have not seen any 
evidence that Mr P was sufficiently questioned  by HSBC branch staff when  he made this or 
indeed any of these  out of character  transactions  other than the time Mr P recalls  in branch 
R which, he says, meant  he then didnt go on to make the transaction.
On this point, Mr Ps evidence suggests that HSBC  may also have had some concerns, as 
they appear to have  stopped him making a £15,000 transfer before the first payment of 
£4,500 left Mr Ps account on 9 April 2018.   
Whilst HSBC say that they dont have any records of that interaction,  I find Mr Ps 
recollections about this to be plausible. I think its more likely than not that he did, as he 
says, request a transfer of £15,000,  decided not to proceed when faced with questioning 
from HSBC and then checked back in with the scammer. Unfortunately, the scammer was 
able to assure Mr P that the woman whod served  him in branch R had since  been arrested 
and that he should now go to a different branch  - but ask for less money.  
So, as Im on balance  satisfied that HSBC  ought fairly and reasonably to have asked more 
questions than they appear  to have done on the first payment of £4,500, Ive thought 
carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been asked by HSBC  designed to get into the detail, disturb the fraud  and break the 
spell Mr P was under - would have made a difference.  
I think Mr Ps recollections of his visit to branch R are persuasive evidence  that intervention 
by the branch staff would have made a difference from the start. Mr P said in relation  to the 
branch R staff not wanting to follow his instructions  to make the payment: 
I was frightened that with the NCA  which is a pretty high agency, that Id upset all their 
plans. So I was cagey,  I wasnt challenging in any way, I just accepted  it and walked out and 
later that day told the scammers what had happened  that the teller had queried paying out 
that sort of money or transferring  that sort of money. 
I think its clear  that Mr P was concerned  about  compromising  what he believed  to be an 
important and high level investigation. So I think its more likely  than not that even a basic 
level of questioning would have resulted in him making his excuses  and leaving without 
completing a payment   again  as he did in branch R. To be clear, Im not suggesting that 
Mr P should  have been subject to an interrogation  merely in the circumstances a basic  
level of questioning designed to disturb, or unearth, the potential  fraud  in line with the 
Banking Protocol.
And of course, if the first payment of £4,500  been  prevented and recorded on HSBCs 
system, or indeed if the police been  called, then on balance I believe its more  likely than not 
that all the further  fraudulent payments from Mr P account would have been prevented. The 
same can be said about  Mr Ps visit to branch R, which on balance  I believe more likely than 
not happened, and its therefore a shame  this was not recorded on HSBCs system. 
However, for completeness, Im satisfied  that Mr P should have been asked specific  
questions designed  to get into the detail on each of the transactions  totalling  £23,400.  I 
believe if he had, as I believe he ought  fairly  and reasonably to have been, then this fraud 
would have been prevented. 
Ref: DRN83858076As an aside,  I note that three of Mr Ps payments were to a pre-paid card company rather 
than a bank or building society. It is commonly known by banks that pre-pay card companies 
are vehicles that fraudsters often  use when asking fraud victims to transfer money.  With this 
in mind, particularly in the current fraud  environment I have already described  in this 
provisional decision, I think its fair and reasonable to say that branch staff ought to be on the 
lookout for anything  unusual   including sort-codes. And I also note that a simple internet  
search of the sort-code  for beneficiary B reveals that it relates  to a business that primarily 
provides pre-paid  card services. Had the branch staff done  this, I think it would  have resulted 
in even greater  concerns  about the payments  Mr P was requesting under the cover story of 
family emergency. 
In any event, as Ive said above,  Im satisfied that had HSBC taken the steps  I think  they 
ought fairly and reasonably to have  taken on 9 April 2018, when the first transaction  of 
£4,500 went through, then the scam  would, on balance, have been prevented. And that this 
action would, more  likely  than not, have prevented all the further transactions. 
Finally Ive considered  whether or not HSBC  should pay Mr P compensation for the distress  
and inconvenience  hes experienced  as a result of their actions. In considering  whats  fair 
compensation, Ive specifically  thought  about the impact of HSBCs actions, rather  than the 
impact of the crime itself and Ive also taken into account that much of the distress  and 
inconvenience Mr P has experienced  was ultimately  a result of the actions of a cruel 
scammer. 
Overall I think  HSBCs failure  to act has had an impact on Mr P. He was clearly shaken and 
upset by the scam. And I think  the strain this placed him under couldve been  prevented  if 
HSBC had acted  as I think they ought to have.  So for these reasons I think HSBC  should 
pay Mr P £300 for the trouble and upset caused.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from 
either Mr P or HSBC, Im intending to uphold this complaint and direct that HSBC UK Plc:
Refund Mr P £23,400 (that being  the sum of transactions  1-5 as listed  above.) 
Add interest to this amount at the rate it would  have  accrued in Mr Ps account 
between the date of each  transfer and the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr P £300 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr P responded to say he accepted my provisional  decision.
HSBC also accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any further  points  for consideration and as both parties accepted 
my provisional decision  I see no reason to deviate from the outcome explained above. 
Ref: DRN83858077my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Refund Mr P £23,400 (that being  the sum of transactions  1-5 as listed  above.) 
Add interest to this amount at the rate it would  have  accrued in Mr Ps account 
between the date of each  transfer and the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr P £300 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8385807