K820x#14complaint
The complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a mortgage 
account in the late Mrs Ss name  sold by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
The PPI policy covered Mrs S. On behalf of Mrs S, Mr S1, through  a claims management 
company (CMC), says the policy was mis-sold.  
Mrs Ss estate  is managed by Miss S and Mr S2. 
The PPI was part of a packaged  protection policy called Total Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). A TMPP  policy could be made  up of the following elements  a PPI policy (which 
covered consumers for accident, sickness and unemployment cover), life cover  and critical 
illness cover.  
Mrs S took out PPI and not life or critical illness cover. So this complaint only focuses on the 
sale of the PPI policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 17 December 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I didnt think BoS mis-sold  the PPI to Mrs S. Mrs S had also had a successful  
claim under the PPI policy receiving over £14,000.  And the claim payments Mrs S received 
were more than she ever paid towards the policy which was under £2,000. 
So I considered that even  if I were to agree that this complaint should be upheld  I wouldnt 
have directed BoS to pay anything to Mrs Ss estate as she had received far more in benefit 
by having the policy than she ever paid for it.
But BoS had offered  to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the PPI which  seemed fair, and 
I didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Mr S1s CMC responded saying it had nothing further to add, and I havent heard from any 
other party by the deadline I set out.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and within my provisional decision,  I dont think the PPI policy 
was mis-sold. 
But Bank of Scotland plc has offered to give Mrs S back some  of the cost of the PPI which 
seems fair, and I dont  think it needs to do anything more.
Ref: DRN81799292The compensation that is being offered will need  to be paid to the representatives  of Mrs Ss 
estate (Miss S and Mr S2). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the relevant 
parties  so Mr S1, and Miss S and Mr S2 to accept or reject my decision before 22 
February 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81799293Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
The complaint is about a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  attached to a mortgage account  
in the late Mrs Ss name sold by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
The PPI policy covered Mrs S. On behalf of Mrs S, Mr S1 says the policy  was mis-sold.  
Mrs Ss estate is managed  by Miss S and Mr S2. 
The PPI was part of a packaged protection policy called Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). A 
TMPP policy could be made up of the following elements  a PPI policy (which covered consumers  
for accident, sickness and unemployment cover), life cover and critical  illness cover. 
Mrs S took out PPI and not life or critical  illness cover. So this complaint only focuses on the sale of 
the PPI policy.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  this case.
Mrs S was sold a PPI policy alongside a mortgage account in 2004. It was sold during a meeting with 
BoS. The policy had a monthly benefit of £636.83 which could  have been paid for up to 24 months if 
Mrs S couldnt  work through accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Having reviewed  the evidence available,  Ive decided  that the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
BoS hasnt been able to provide much  paperwork  from the time of the sale  which isnt wholly 
surprising as the mortgage and PPI were taken out a long time ago. So Im not entirely sure how 
the PPI was presented to Mrs S and I dont  know what was said to her at the time. But based on 
what I know about  how BoS sold this type of policy around that time I think its more likely than 
not it was an optional product and that a discussion about PPI would have been  had. 
Ive also seen  a copy of a declaration for the mortgage which  is signed by Mrs S. While this 
doesnt show  Mrs S consented to the policy it infers that it was an optional product by referring  to 
an application that had to be made for the policy  to be taken out. So, in the absence  of any 
evidence to show me that something went wrong at the time BoS sold the PPI, I cant  fairly 
assume it did. 
BoS recommended  the PPI to Mrs S so it had to check it was right for her. And based on what  
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. Especially considering  that a mortgage 
is a long term financial commitment with serious consequences if repayments arent met. While 
Mrs S received  good employee benefits and had some  savings to help her meet her repayments, 
the policy  could have paid out for up to 24 months if Mrs S couldnt  work through  accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So I cant fairly  say that the advisers recommendation wasnt 
suitable.
BoS also had to make sure Mrs S got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would  have been useful for 
Ref: DRN81799294her if she had to use it. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Mrs Ss claim  and why this is important 
BoS has told this service that Mrs S made a successful claim on the PPI policy  receiving over 
£14,000. And the claim payments Mrs S received  were more than she ever paid towards the policy  
which was under £2,000. 
So even if I were to agree that this complaint  should be upheld I wouldnt have directed BoS to pay 
anything to Mrs Ss estate. 
Thats because the remedy for mis-sold PPI is to put the consumer in the position  they would have 
been in, as far as possible,  had they not had the PPI policy. And had Mrs S not had the PPI policy 
then she wouldnt  have had the benefit of those claim  payments. So it would have been fair for BoS to 
deduct the claim  payments from any compensation it owed for the mis-sale  of the complaint.  
In summary, I dont think the policy  wasnt mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs S 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs S back some  of the cost of the PPI. 
All things considered, I dont think  it needs  to do anything more.
BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs Ss estate after Ive issued my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am intending to say that I dont think  the PPI policy  was mis-sold. 
But Bank of Scotland  plc has offered  to give Mrs S back some of the cost of the PPI which  seems fair, 
and I dont think  it needs  to do anything more.
The compensation  that is being offered will need to be paid to the representatives of Mrs Ss estate 
(Miss S and Mr S2)  so they will need to respond to this provisional  decision.
I invite all parties  to respond to me by 17 January 2019. I will then consider the responses I receive 
and look to issue  a final decision on this complaint.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8179929