K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  that CIS General Insurance Limited has unfairly  treated  his claim for 
damage to his car under his motor insurance policy as a fault claim. He said CIS had failed 
to investigate the circumstances properly and had failed to update him about his claim.
background
I set out the background  to the complaint within the provisional decision  on this complaint,  a 
copy of which is attached. In summary,  Mr Ls car was parked outside his house when it was 
hit by a van and written  off. The van drivers  insurer said the driver had been taken ill at the 
wheel and so wasnt negligent and liability wasnt accepted. This meant that Mr Ls 
unprotected No Claims Discount (NCD)  would be affected. 
my provisional findings and the parties responses
In my provisional decision I said I intended  to partially uphold the complaint. 
I said I could understand  that Mr L losing his NCD and excess felt like being  blamed for the 
accident. CIS told him that it knew he wasnt to blame,  but as it had to pay the claim from his 
policy this would affect his NCD. I said that as CIS hasnt  recovered its outlay (i.e. the money  
it paid out for the damage to Mr Ls car) theres no reason  for it to allow  Mr Ls unprotected 
NCD to be maintained. CIS reduced Mr Ls NCD by two years in line with the policy terms.
I said that under the terms of the policy CIS is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees 
fit. I looked at CISs decision not to pursue the third party for its outlay and the investigation it 
carried out. The medical report on the third party is from a consultant  neurologist and Ive 
seen that it doesnt record  any incidents of blackouts before or after the accident.  
CISs legal advice about liability for accidents in similar circumstances and case law shows 
that if a driver has an episode such as a heart attack, seizure or blackout  not associated  with 
any medical condition,  this is considered to be an inevitable  accident.  The effect of this is 
that the driver  cannot  be held responsible for their actions if they had no knowledge of them.  
CIS said it had to drop the claim against  the third party because  of the medical  evidence.  I 
thought it would be unreasonable to expect CIS to pursue  a claim it was likely to lose.
I explained that the excess Mr L has paid is the amount agreed and set out in his policy  in 
the event of a claim. And is payable because Mr L has made  a claim on his policy and CIS 
wasnt able to recover its outlay for the reasons I gave above. I said it remains  open  to Mr L 
to take legal action for the recovery of his uninsured losses against the third party.  
Mr L had said his premium at renewal increased  because of the claim. CIS showed  us how it 
calculated his premium.  Other  than the impact  from the reduction  of Mr Ls NCD, I havent 
seen a cost increase to do with the liability for the accident. And I said I was satisfied that 
CIS calculated Mr Ls premium as it would  for its other customers with similar circumstances.
I considered CISs handling of Mr Ls claim. I said CIS alerted Mr L to the likelihood  that his 
NCD could be affected. But it was a year later when CIS confirmed to Mr L that it wouldnt 
pursue its outlay for the claim. I said that during this time Mr L received no update  from CIS 
about the liability for his claim.  I thought that delay and poor communications caused Mr L 
distress and inconvenience. And I thought  that CIS should pay Mr L £200 compensation for 
its poor service, this includes the £100  CIS has already paid him.
Ref: DRN89475972CIS responded to the provisional decision saying it kept Mr L updated about his claim. It 
showed that it wrote to Mr L on 3 January 2017 to say the van drivers insurer was disputing 
liability and advising the driver had a blackout at the wheel. And wrote again in January and 
February 2017 to say it was unable to pursue his claim as the driver  wasnt negligent, and so 
he was aware of the issue. CIS said it thought Mr L ought to have been aware this would be 
a fault claim and it thought the £100  paid to Mr L was fair compensation. 
Mr L did not respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L hasnt commented  further about CISs  decision not to pursue  the van drivers insurer  for 
the costs of his claim. I remain of the view that CIS has considered all the evidence and 
arguments in making  its decision  about  the liability for the accident. I understand this will be 
disappointing for Mr L, but I am satisfied that CIS was justified  in taking the approach it has 
on the claim and I think that it has treated Mr L fairly in this regard.
CIS said it kept Mr L updated on its attempts to recover the outlay for his claim against the 
van drivers insurer  and he ought reasonable to have been aware that it was likely to accept 
liability for the claim. CIS provided copies of letters to Mr L including  one sent in February  
2017 in which it said that it would have  to accept liability for the claim.
I dont think these documents  have been provided to us before, which  is concerning as we 
dont appear to have  received all of CISs records about the complaint. The letter in February 
2017 shows that CIS made Mr L aware much earlier than I had said of the position  it was 
taking on his claim. 
However, CIS hasnt  dealt  with the other points I raised in my provisional decision;  that it 
was told the van driver  wasnt negligent  on 19 October 2016,  but didnt request the medical 
evidence until 27 January 2017. And that it was provided with the medical evidence on 13 
September 2017, but didnt write to confirm to Mr L that it wouldnt pursue the claim on 24 
October 2017. 
I said that CIS could  have  done  more to avoid delays. CIS hasnt addressed these points  
and I remain of the view that Mr L was caused distress and inconvenience  about this and 
CIS should pay him further compensation of £100.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require CIS General  Insurance  Limited  to pay Mr L further compensation of £100  in addition 
to the compensation of £100  it has already  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Ref: DRN89475973Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8947597