K822xcomplaint
Mrs Ls complaint is about the handling of a claim under her plumbing and drainage 
insurance policy with Aviva Insurance Limited.  
Aviva uses  agents to deal with claims on its behalf.  All references to Aviva  in this decision 
should be read as including  anything  said and done  on its behalf by those  agents.  
background 
In March 2018, Mrs L noticed  a stain on the ceiling of her downstairs bathroom. She made a 
claim to Aviva, as she thought therere must have been a water leak from the bathroom 
above.  
Aviva sent a contractor out on 8 March 2018.  He said the basin and toilet of the upstairs  
bathroom were working with no leaks but there were some  cracks in the grout and mastic 
around the shower. Aviva said this wasnt covered and so no repair was done under  the 
policy. 
On January 2019, Mrs L arranged for a plumber to attend and he repaired the leak.  Mrs Ls 
plumber said the leak was coming from damaged sealant and mastic seal was then applied  
behind the toilet, along the shower  base and flank wall.
Mrs L said this shows the leak was from the toilet and not the shower,  as Aviva had said and 
that this should therefore  have been repaired by Aviva. Mrs L also said that Aviva sent a 
copy of its report on the leak to her home insurer without her consent.  And the report said 
there was asbestos  present which caused her a great deal of anxiety. When she asked 
Aviva about  this, it didnt  respond and simply sent another copy of the report with the 
reference to asbestos removed. 
Aviva says Mrs L contacted it on 5 June 2018  and said she would like a copy  of the report 
sent to her home  insurer. It also says that Mrs L emailed on 13 December 2018 asking  
whether the real reason  for not carrying out the repairs was due to detecting asbestos. Aviva   
emailed her back on 17 December 2018 and said there was no report  from the engineer to 
confirm asbestos  was in the property. Aviva also spoke to Mrs L about this on the same day. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended it be upheld in part. 
The investigator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say Avivas  plumber  was wrong 
and the leak should have  been repaired under the policy. However, the report sent to Mrs L 
initially did say there was asbestos present and this was why it could not do the work. This 
appears to have been incorrect  but would understandably have caused  Mrs L concern. She 
had told Aviva she had guests coming  to stay and was worried  about  putting  their health at 
risk if there was asbestos in her property.  The investigator therefore  recommended that 
Aviva pay Mrs L £75 compensation  for the trouble this caused to her.
Aviva accepted the investigators assessment but Mrs L does not. Mrs L says Aviva had said 
the leak was from the shower which has been  shown to be incorrect  and the £75 
compensation proposed is not enough to reflect the stress and worry caused by the 
possibility of asbestos being present in her home.  
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
Ref: DRN88876902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No policy  of insurance will cover  every single eventuality.  Cover  is usually provided for 
certain specified insured events, subject to terms and conditions. Mrs Ls policy covers 
certain emergency situations with the plumbing and drainage in her property:
You are covered for incidents  relating to your plumbing and drainage. The engineer will 
resolve the immediate  problem  by repairing or replacing leaking pipes; clearing blockages; 
repairing taps; restoring  toilet facilities, repairs to leaking  overflows;  investigating the causes 
of noisy pipes and quietening these  where  they can be accessed. The engineer will leave a 
blocked drain running clear by clearing the drain or repairing  or replacing the damaged  
section of waste pipe.  This will include the temporary reinstatement of any excavations 
carried out as part of the claim.
Water Supply Pipe: You are also covered for a leak or blockage in your water supply pipe.
So leaks  from pipework will be covered  (subject to certain terms). However, Aviva didnt find 
a leak from any pipework. Its plumber said the leak was caused by cracks in the grout and 
the sealant around the shower.  Any damage  to sealant or grout is not covered under the 
policy. I do not consider  this to be unreasonable or unfair.  
Mrs Ls plumber has written a letter to confirm the repairs  he carried out. It says:  
We found  that the leak was coming from damaged sealant. Mastic seal was applied to 
behind the wc, along the shower base and flank wall.
Mrs Ls plumber has therefore  also confirmed that the leak was not from any pipework and 
that it was due to failed  sealant. Mrs Ls plumber doesnt mention grout  and has also said 
that he replaced the sealant around  the toilet and not just the shower.  However, I do not 
think this means that Aviva should have repaired the leak,  as he confirms that the problem 
was the sealant and not any pipework. 
Aviva did send a copy of its plumbers report to Mrs Ls home  insurer  but I am satisfied that 
this was at her request and therefore  also with her express consent. I have seen the notes of 
the telephone call when this was requested,  which record  the contact details for the home  
insurer and that policy number. The note also records that Mrs L was unhappy that this 
request might take seven days to process.  I have no reason therefore to doubt the content of 
this note and am satisfied  this was sent with Mrs Ls consent. 
Aviva also sent Mrs L a copy of its plumbers  report.  Both this copy and the one sent to her 
home insurer recorded that in answer  to questions on a standard  health  and safety  section 
of the report, the plumber had answered  yes to there being asbestos present and that this 
was why the work could not be done under the policy. 
The same report on Avivas  internal  file has the same questions  and answers  set out within a 
table and the answer to both these questions is no on that copy.  Aviva  has said that the 
questions and answers have moved  and no longer in the table form when the report  was cut 
and pasted in both the letters  to   Mrs L and her home insurer.  That does seem plausible 
Ref: DRN88876903having seen both copies. However,  I can see how this would  have caused  Mrs L concern 
and this could  have been easily avoided.  I therefore  agree with the investigator that some 
compensation is warranted  for this and agree  that £75 is appropriate. Mrs L has said it 
caused her such concern  that the compensation should be higher  but I am satisfied this is an 
appropriate amount  and in line with awards made  in similar cases.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Aviva Insurance  Limited to pay Mrs K the sum of 
£75 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its handling of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8887690