K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that RiverStone Insurance (UK) Limited  (Riverstone)  wont  accept her 
claim for legal expenses to pursue a solicitor  for professional  negligence.  
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is very lengthy and is well known to both parties. 
So, Ill only provide an overview of some  of the key events here. 
In 1993 Mrs C says the water at her place of work  was contaminated and that this negatively  
impacted her health. In 1999  Mrs C used her policy to fund legal action against her former 
employer and other relevant parties.  A panel  solicitor M was appointed to handle the claim 
under the policy.  Cover  was later withdrawn  on the basis of there being insufficient  
prospects of success which was a requirement  of the policy.  
In 2005 Mrs C sought to pursue M as she felt they had been negligent in their handling of 
her claim. A different  solicitor S was appointed,  and they confirmed that there were 
insufficient prospects  of pursuing M for professional negligence. As such cover  was 
declined. 
Since 2005 there were further  occasions where  Mrs C tried again to make  claims which  were 
declined as being the same claims that had already  been responded to. This includes in 
2011 where a further assessment as to whether the period of limitation would apply to the 
original claim  was considered by a solicitor as a gesture of goodwill. This also included a 
review of Ss assessment of the prospects of a claim against M succeeding which  agreed 
with what S had originally  found. There have been occasions where there  were  large  
volumes of communication between Riverstone and Mrs C. Ultimately  Riverstone felt they 
had done all they could to assist  Mrs C and said they would be unable to continue to 
correspond with her. 
Mrs C says that she now accepts much of what Riverstone have said about  her historic 
claims. But in 2019  she contacted them wishing to make a new claim about S being 
negligent in their consideration of her claim about  M. She says the limit of limitation is 
approaching for this and would like her claim to be accepted.  
Initially, Riverstone believed this to be Mrs C trying  again  to resurrect her historic claims  
which they felt had already been answered. There was some discussion between  Riverstone 
and Mrs C as to whether  any claim against S would be in time. But following our services 
involvement Riverstone  told us that they dont believe  they were  Mrs Cs insurer at the 
relevant time in March 2006  when  the alleged negligence took place. They  also said even if 
they were,  then Mrs Cs claim against S isnt an insured event under her policy. They  point 
out that S were appointed  by them  to assess the prospects of success of the insurance 
claim, not by Mrs C herself.  And beyond  that, they would still have concerns as to limitation 
and any claim having  reasonable  prospects of success. So, for all these reasons they are 
unable to take things further.
One of our investigators  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagrees and 
has asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. She also asked that a hearing be 
held. Ive already  responded  to explain why I didnt think a hearing was necessary  to decide 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN80606792In November 2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The background to this complaint demonstrates how strongly Mrs C feels  about  this matter 
and the surrounding events as she has been pursuing a resolution of some sort for nearly 30 
years. My role isnt to handle the claim,  it is to resolve this complaint. But I acknowledge the 
long history and Mrs Cs strength of feeling.  
Mrs C has clarified  that what she wants from Riverstone is cover  from her policy  to pursue S 
for professional negligence. In essence  Riverstone have  told Mrs C they cant  assist with 
this. I need to decide if that is fair and reasonable or if they ought to do more. Based  on all 
Ive seen, Im not intending to tell Riverstone to do anything further.  
Understandably, given the passage  of time, Riverstone dont have detailed records going  so 
far back.  So, the starting point would  be for Mrs C to evidence  that Riverstone  were her legal 
expenses insurer at that time of the alleged  negligence (which I understand to be in March  
2006). From  the records  Riverstone  have been  able to access,  they dont believe they 
insured Mrs C beyond  January 2006.  
Riverstone have provided a copy of their policy document from that time.  So, assuming that 
Mrs C could evidence she was covered by Riverstone,  she would still have to show that she 
had a valid claim under her policy. 
The policy says there is cover for legal expenses in relation  to several insured events. 
These are listed as:
1.Your  death or injury from a cause other than an accident involving a motor  vehicle  
you are driving.
2.Buying or hiring goods or services for your own private use. At least £125 must be in 
dispute and the agreement for buying or hiring  the goods  must have been made or 
renewed within the period of cover.
3.Someone affecting your legal rights  arising from you owning or living  in your home 
happening at least 180 days after the start of this insurance. 
4.Breach of your contract  of employment 
I think one, three and four are clearly  not applicable  to the circumstance of Mrs Cs claim. 
So, the only potential  head of cover  would be in relation to buying or hiring  of services 
referring to the legal work undertaken by S. 
In common with almost all legal expenses insurance  policies there is a further requirement 
that any claim has a reasonable chance  of success. This is the legal work S were  engaged 
in when Mrs C alleges they were negligent. S were assessing whether Mrs Cs claim for 
negligence against M met the requirements of the policy by having a reasonable chance of 
succeeding. 
But the policy term quoted above  requires that any goods or services  in dispute were  both 
bought or hired and that they were  for Mrs Cs own private use. In these circumstances, I 
dont think that describes  what  was happening.  S were confirming whether the claim met the 
requirements of the policy. This was for Riverstone to help them  decide  if the claim ought  to 
Ref: DRN80606793be covered or not. It wasnt legal action to progress Mrs Cs case,  it was a legal assessment 
for the purposes  of confirming insurance  cover. 
I dont think Mrs C bought  or hired  Ss services for her own private use. As the claim was 
never accepted, S werent (at that point)  appointed to act on Mrs Cs behalf  they were  
acting for Riverstone. They  didnt enter  into a solicitor-client relationship  with Mrs C. As such,  
I dont think Riverstone are being unfair  when  saying there  hasnt been an insured event. 
I acknowledge there are also other concerns  raised by Riverstone. These include whether or 
not limitation has expired and the requirement for reasonable prospects of succeeding  in a 
claim against S. It is for Mrs C to evidence that she has a valid claim under her policy. If 
Mrs C were to provide Riverstone with evidence that she was covered by them at the 
material time along with a legal opinion which concluded: 
that she had hired  Ss legal services for her own private use; 
and that a claim for negligence against  S had a 51% or greater chance of succeeding 
(including the potential barrier  of the limitation  period);
then Id expect  Riverstone  to further  consider the claim. Mrs C may wish to take independent 
advice before incurring the costs of doing  so. But as things stand, I dont think Riverstone 
need to do more to resolve Mrs Cs complaint.
Riverstone responded to say they had nothing further to add. Mrs C made further detailed 
submissions which Ill address below. Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment  I 
can go ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mrs C that I have carefully  read all shes sent in and Ive listened  to when 
she called  our service to verbally put her thoughts  across on this complaint. So, whilst I 
accept Mrs C feels that Ive already made  up my mind   I have thought  about  all shes  said. 
That being  said,  Im not intending to deviate  from the outcome in my provisional  decision. I 
know this will be very disappointing,  so Ill explain why. 
I accept that communication has been difficult,  and that Riverstone have often refused to 
correspond with or speak  to Mrs C. I have  sympathy  for both parties on this point. I 
understand this is frustrating for Mrs C. But I also see that over the years  Riverstone have 
put considerable time and resources  into corresponding with Mrs C who appeared reluctant 
to accept the outcome in relation to her previous  claims.  It is for these reasons that weve 
ended up with her claim about S, partially  running in parallel with this complaint. But 
Riverstone had told Mrs C why they thought  her claim wasnt  covered in March  2020.  So I 
dont agree that they didnt respond  at all or that overall they treated  Mrs C unfairly in the 
circumstances. 
I acknowledge it would  have been better for Riverstone to have given fuller reasons (as they 
later have) but the outcome would have remained the same. That being  that they dont 
believe the claim to be covered. So, I dont think this has made  a difference here, but I do 
however acknowledge that the claim hasnt been  handled in the usual  way. 
Ref: DRN80606794The crux of Mrs Cs disagreement with my provisional decision is that the policy documents 
say that a claim will be assessed by a solicitor to establish the prospects  of success. She 
says my comments  that she ought to provide a legal opinion would be understandable if 
Riverstone had first provided a negative opinion  on prospects. She feels it is unreasonable 
that she has to provide  this and says the first assessment  ought  to be paid for by the insurer,  
in line with the policy documents. 
This is a fair point  that Mrs C makes and she is quite right that this is how these  types of 
policy usually work.  But in the circumstances  of this complaint, there are a number of 
barriers to acceptance of the claim.  Firstly, Riverstone  dont believe that they were Mrs Cs 
insurer at the time. I acknowledge  that Mrs C has provided documents  to show she has had 
LEI cover throughout  the relevant time.  But these list the overall underwriter of those policies 
as a business Ill refer to as C who were the provider  of the home  insurance.  And its 
common for the LEI section of a policy to be underwritten by a different insurer.  So whilst I 
accept Mrs C had cover, it doesnt evidence that this was with Riverstone.  
Again, I dont think its unreasonable that Riverstone  no longer have detailed  records going 
back around 15 years. If Mrs C has further  evidence that Riverstone were her LEI insurer  at 
that time,  Id expect  Riverstone  to consider it. But even if it can be shown that Riverstone 
were the insurer, I still dont think its unreasonable to expect Mrs C to provide a supportive 
legal opinion  in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ss alleged  negligence was in relation to their assessment of Mrs Cs claim against M which 
was also for professional negligence. The evidence shows  that in 2011  there  was a further 
solicitors opinion funded as a gesture of goodwill by Riverstone. Part of this said that Mrs C 
would face significant hurdles in being  able to show that there was no other  credible body of 
opinion (solicitors) that would have approached the matter in the way it was dealt with by 
[M]. This in effect supports the position S took on the matter  (which Mrs C alleges was 
negligent). 
I accept that the opinion  Ive referenced above wasnt specifically considering whether or not 
S had been  negligent. But they were  considering  the same underlying question of whether 
what S said about M was correct. I appreciate that Mrs C feels this further solicitor was also 
negligent. But had S been negligent  in concluding  that the claim against M didnt have 
prospects of success,  its likely this further  assessment would  have highlighted this, rather  
than supporting what S had found.  So, I think its fair for Riverstone to rely on this 
information to inform their decision  on the claim.  
There is also still the issue  of whether or not an insured event has taken place.  Mrs C has 
submitted evidence which details some  of the work undertaken by S. This does refer to her 
as the client.  Mrs C has also pointed  out that the policy  documents  require her to give 
instructions to a solicitor  with regard to assessing the prospects of success. 
Im not persuaded that the evidence Mrs C has submitted evidences that S did more  than 
assess the prospects  and engage in further efforts to communicate and explain this to her. I 
therefore dont  think that Riverstone are being unreasonable when  questioning  whether, in 
these circumstances,  Mrs C had hired the legal services involved for her own personal use 
 as required by the policy. I dont think the fact that S appeared to have done some  
additional work in communicating with Mrs C (funded  by Riverstone) changes things. Its of 
note that the alleged  negligence  is in relation to the opinion on prospects, which I again think  
was for the purposes of establishing insurance cover,  rather  than acting for Mrs C as a 
personal client to progress any legal action. 
Ref: DRN80606795Summary
Overall, Im not persuaded that Riverstone need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. Taking  all the evidence into consideration, Im not going to tell Riverstone that 
they ought to fund a legal opinion in the first instance. There are numerous barriers  to 
acceptance of the claim and the history of the matter involves Riverstone funding  an opinion  
in 2011 which agreed with what S had said in relation to M. I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to expect  Riverstone to fund a further  opinion at this stage. 
If Mrs C were to evidence  that Riverstone were her insurer at the time and provide a 
supportive legal opinion as described above,  Id expect Riverstone to consider reimbursing 
her the reasonable costs of obtaining  it. If Mrs C does submit the evidence  referred  to above, 
Id also expect Riverstone  (or their claim handler) to facilitate its submission and to provide a 
clear answer on whether  it changes their position  in relation to the claim. But again, as things  
stand, I dont think Riverstone need  to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 January 2021.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8060679