K822xcomplaint
Mr B, represented here by Mrs B, complains that when he made a claim  on his home 
insurance with Lloyds Bank General  Insurance  Limited, he wasnt  given the option of using 
approved repairers  to carry  out the repairs. Hes also unhappy with the settlement figure he 
was offered.
background 
Mr B has a home  insurance  policy arranged by a bank. Although he appeared to be dealing  
with the bank throughout, his policy is underwritten by Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  
Limited. So, Ill be referring to Lloyds  here.
In early July 2018,  Mrs B discovered that an underground leak at her home was allowing a 
stream of water to escape onto her neighbours property. She immediately notified  Lloyds 
and said she wanted to claim on her policy. Mrs B says Lloyds told her theyd send someone 
out within a couple of days. But because of the scale  of the leak,  Mrs B says she couldn't  
wait and had to appoint contractors to deal with the problem at once. Five days later, Lloyds  
sent round  a surveyor. He inspected the site and took photographs.  Mrs B said he told her 
the contractors could continue with the repairs. But he didn't offer the option of using 
Lloydss own approved repairers.
Then a week or so after that, Mrs B said Lloyds sent round a second person, a claims  
consultant, to take a look. But by then, most of the underground repair work  had already 
been completed and the ground  reinstated. Then, later in July, Lloyds  sent Mrs B a list of the 
reparation works it was prepared to cover  and offered her £1,569.60  in settlement. But Mrs B 
said the actual  cost of the works  required was significantly in excess of this and shed paid 
£5,865 to her contractors.  So, Lloyds offer wouldnt cover  this, and she declined  the offer 
and complained.
In October  2018, Lloyds  sent their final response letter. With regard  to their approved 
contractors not carrying  out the works,  they said Mrs Bs contractors had already been on 
site. And in respect  of their settlement offer, they said their figure covered the work insured 
under Mrs Bs policy and theyd provided  a list of the repairs  based  on their rates.  (Although 
they said they couldnt share these rates for reasons of commercial sensitivity).  Lloyds later 
reviewed a breakdown  of costs provided by Mrs Bs contractors who completed  the works.  
But they didnt  change their decision. And they said they couldnt validate the scope or rates 
provided by Mrs B as the contractor had provided  no professional details.
Mrs B complained to us and, in September 2019, our investigator  sent out his view. He said 
Lloyds didnt have  to offer Mrs B a choice  of using approved contractors  rather than paying a 
cash settlement. And he didnt think that their settlement figure needed to be reviewed 
because the figure offered was based  on the rates Lloyds would pay their own contractors,  
which would be less than the market rate Mrs B would  have  to pay. The investigator also 
explained that to determine a different cash settlement theyd need to see valid quotations to 
show more work had been required.  But Mrs Bs estimate wasnt  sufficient to determine  what 
these costs should have been.  So, he didnt think Lloyds had acted incorrectly.
Mrs B disagreed. She took issue with some elements of Lloydss report and scope of works, 
including the provision of a skip and scaffolding, for example, which  she said took up half of 
the settlement  offer. And she has said the surveyor hadnt considered the full extent of the 
works required, including the fact that a hole had been broken into the boundary wall to 
Ref: DRN85487422accommodate the connection of a new main drain to the mains  stopcock on the other  side. 
And another  hole had been knocked  through the wall of her house  to access the basement.
Mrs B then said shed try to obtain  alternative quotations  from local contractors to support 
her argument. And our investigator informed Lloyds that wed be considering  any new 
quotations as part of the complaint as wed been requesting these all along.
As Mrs B didnt agree  with our investigators view, her case has come to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive looked at Mrs Bs policy booklet  to see what work is covered under its terms. In 
describing what is covered, the policy states:
Accidental damage to underground services.
Trace and access and emergency access cover in the home perimeter
Trace and access. If your buildings  are damaged due to: Accidental damage  to 
services; we will pay the reasonable  cost of removing and replacing any other  part 
of your buildings  necessary  to find the source  of the leak and making good.
It also states:
Escape of water  Covers  damage caused by escape of water  as a result  of, for 
example, general plumbing issues such as a burst rising main  or if a pipe joint 
bursts or drain collapses.
So, Im satisfied that whats covered here is the accidental damage  to Mrs Bs water mains 
pipe and then escape of water (EOW)  from a fixed water installation   which seems to have 
caused most of the damage (including the soil vent pipe dropping). Also the trace and 
access of the problem itself in order to sort it out. And I think  we can see this from the claims 
consultants notes.
Approved repairers
Mrs B is unhappy with the £1,569.60 Lloyds  offered  to settle her claim and shes  explained  
that this wasnt enough  to cover the repair work required.  And it seems  this is partly  
because of the extent of the repairs it covers and partly  because of the rates Lloyds  have 
used.
Mrs B says Lloyds didnt offer her the choice of using their own approved  repairers. This is 
significant because  Lloydss contractors would have been cheaper.  So, again, Ive looked at 
Mrs Bs policy document to see what it says. And under How we settle claims under your 
Buildings covers, the policy states:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing the part of your home  which is damaged  We 
have the option of giving you a money  payment  instead of repairing or rebuilding  your home.
From this, it looks  like Lloyds, not Mrs B, can choose how they settle the claim. And, set 
down in black and white, this seems pretty clear. But I think theres more to it than that. 
Ref: DRN85487423When an insurer considers a claim, they do this, in part, by looking at the cost to them  of the 
options available.  And if Lloyds exercises their option to settle in cash, they must do so at 
commercial market rates, because the rates they get from their contractor arent  available to 
consumers. If Mrs B had chosen to use her repairer  when  Lloyds wanted to use one of their 
own then Id support  Lloyds  approach  of using their contractors rates.  But that wasnt  the 
case here.
And while I understand Lloyds might have thought it was too late to deploy their own 
contractors when the surveyor visited on day five, works did continue for over a week, so 
they could have stepped  in. And Im not convinced  Lloydss surveyor  were able to take all 
the damage or repair work required into account  anyway.  And Lloyds werent obliged to 
provide a cash settlement, they opted to. So, I think these factors combined meant that 
Lloydss cash settlement figure didnt really reflect the reality of the situation. So, it didnt put 
Mrs B broadly back in the position she was in prior to the damage.
And Ive listened  to Lloydss call recordings with Mrs B. In the second call, made  the day of 
the leak, Mrs B told the call handler  that she already had contractors on site. She said this 
three times. And she said they had to carry on with some temporary repairs  at least  because 
the leak was still leaking and would only cause more damage.  And I think  its fair to say that, 
realistically, Mrs B didnt have any choice  but to employ contractors  there and then, given 
the continuing extent of the leak.
But having  read Lloydss note of this call, I see theres no record of this information.  Though  I 
think Lloyds certainly  had constructive knowledge of the ongoing state of affairs.  And given 
the nature  of the claim,  they should have sent someone out sooner who could have made a 
comprehensive assessment of the claim at the earliest opportunity.
Ive also looked  at the surveyors report and scope of works  provided by Lloyds. Lloyds 
based its settlement  offer on these. But the surveyor came on the fifth day after the leak. 
And the claims advisor  only visited after a fortnight.
And nothing  Ive seen  suggests that Lloyds  offered  Mrs B a choice between  their approved 
repairers and a cash settlement. Of course, if shed been offered a choice and chosen the 
cash settlement then I think it would have  been fair for Lloyds to limit their payment to what  it 
would have paid.  But thats not what happened. While it might have been in accordance  with 
their policy terms  for Lloyds not to offer Mrs B a choice  between their approved repairers and 
a cash settlement, I dont  think  they took sufficient  care in fully assessing the cost of the 
works based on commercial market  rates. So, I dont think  Lloyds took a reasonable 
approach, in line with their obligations under the policy.
In order to establish the extent of her loss, Mrs B told us how she tried to get estimates from 
other local contractors but was unable to do so. But Ive read the quote provided  by Mrs Bs 
own contractor in support  of her claim that the works cost far more than Lloyds have made  
provision for. And having considered the evidence of the quotations from Lloyds and Mrs Bs 
contractor, and their significant  disparity, Im not convinced Mrs B could ever have got the 
work done for the settlement figure she was offered. And I think  thats unfair. Lloyds refused 
to consider this evidence,  saying it was new information. But I dont agree. They  refused to 
consider it the first time round because they said the contractor hadnt provided  his 
professional details. And now that he has, I think they should have looked at it, although  I 
see theyve refused to again.
Ref: DRN85487424Mrs B wouldnt have  been out of pocket if Lloyds had carried out the repairs.  But Lloyds 
never agreed a schedule  of works  with her either. Mrs B was simply presented  with a list, 
after the repairs had been carried out. And that doesnt seem fair. And I dont think it was 
transparent or fair that Lloyds refused to provide an itemised figure, only a global one while,  
at the same  time, insisting Mrs B did produce an itemised quotation, which Lloyds  then 
rejected seemingly without any real consideration. And they didnt actually take issue with 
any of the individual costings at all, which I dont think  was fair either.
Lloyds said their figure covered the work insured under Mrs Bs policy.  But Ive looked at the 
scope of works documents provided by both Lloyds and Mrs Bs contractor, together  with 
their accompanying estimates, and I see that the two estimates differ  significantly   by a 
margin of over four thousand pounds. 
Ive seen the detailed list of repairs Lloyds  said theyd  pay for. And I accept what  they said 
about some  of the damage being historic. But while some damage to the boundary wall, for 
example, may have  been historic, knocking a hole through it to access the external stopcock 
wasnt. And I cant see this on the list of works  authorised by Lloyds. And I think  its at least  
arguable that this should be covered under trace and access. Nor was knocking  a hole 
through the stone wall of her house listed either,  although Im satisfied this should  be 
covered under the policy. And I think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay for the 
repairs to all of the soil vent pipe, not just the lower  section, as this damage was caused  by 
the leak.
Mrs B says that more  recently she approached a couple of local business for comparative 
quotes but they either declined because they were too busy  to do a quote on a job that had 
already been completed by somebody else or just didnt get back  to her, presumably for the 
same reason.
And while I cant comment on the costs of these items in detail, I see Lloyds list includes the 
provision of scaffolding  for repairs to the back of Mrs Bs property and a skip. I accept  what  
Mrs B has said that these two items alone  account  for half of Lloyds  settlement  figure.
The main  trouble is that Lloyds costings arent justified because  Ive not been able to see 
their rates, which must  be their own approved repairer rates. But Ive seen evidence of what  
Mrs B paid. Shes provided  some more detail  as to what  she was charged  for various  items  
and, more particularly,  Ive seen that she withdrew  £5,000 in cash from her bank account in 
late July 2018  (the month of the leak) which she used to pay her contractor. She also 
withdrew similar amounts in September and October, part of which, she says,  was also used 
to pay her contractor as well as covering the cost of materials.
So, Im not convinced Lloyds offer constitutes a fair or reasonable amount in settlement of 
Mrs Bs claim. And I think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to pay the £5,865 Mrs B 
paid out to her contractors  to carry out the reparation work,  less her excess, and less 
whatever has already  been paid. 
I also think Lloyds should pay interest  at eight  per cent on the full amount (£5,865)  if they 
havent yet paid anything.  Or on the balance if they have. This should  be calculated  from the 
date Mrs B withdrew the money from her bank until the date of payment by Lloyds. 
Distress and inconvenience
Ref: DRN85487425I also think Mrs B is due something for the distress  and inconvenience of having her claim 
handled in this way. Because I think Lloydss approach  was wrong  from the outset. And 
shes told us how protracted and stressful the process was. So, Im going to award £250.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mrs B accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds  said that while  they didnt agree that all 
aspects of the claimed costs should  be covered, they did, nevertheless, consent to pay Mrs 
B £5,865  (in part by way of an ex gratia payment), less the excess, along with 8% interest 
and £250 in compensation.
So, now the case has been passed  back to me to for a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also reconsidered  my provisional  
findings.
Lloyds said they didnt agree that two particular aspects of the claimed costs should be 
covered, and I have  noted this. But otherwise they accepted  my decision.
So, having  considered the response  to my provisional decision, Ive no reason to depart from 
the findings Ive already reached  in this case. And my decision remains the same.
my final decision
For the above reasons, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited 
should:
pay Mrs B £5,865, less her excess (and less whatever may already  been paid);
plus interest on this figure  as set out above;  and
pay her £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 November  2020.
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8548742