K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer her pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In brief,  
Miss S had said she was cold called  by St Pauls  Marketing Limited in 2016 and offered a 
pension review. She was told she could benefit from better returns  by transferring her 
pension and would be able to access benefits sooner. St Pauls Marketing provided Miss S 
with promotional material relating to an investment in debentures issued by Just Loans.
Miss S opened a SIPP and approximately £15,400 was transferred to it in March 2016.  
The majority of these funds were  transferred to a stockbroking account and were  invested in 
the Just Loans  debentures.  
Miss S, through her representative, subsequently  complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited in November 2018.  I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to 
the complaint.  The representative subsequently  referred it to us. Our investigator asked 
Alexander David for its files and to provide  any other evidence it wanted  us to take into 
account. However, no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said that from the evidence  that had been provided he thought  it likely  that 
St Pauls Marketing had recommended  the investment to Miss S. He said that Miss S was in 
her mid-forties, was a low risk investor, this was her only pension provision and she couldnt  
afford to lose it. He therefore thought  that recommending that she invest  the pension in 
bonds presenting  higher risks wasnt in line with her objectives. And he said an adviser 
providing a recommendation in Miss S best interests should  have identified this. 
The investigator said a high-risk investment  of this type would be more  suitable for an 
experienced investor with a capacity for loss. But that it was clear Miss S wasnt  such an 
investor. She had little investment  experience  or capacity for loss.
St Pauls Marketing had arranged the investment for Miss S. The investigator said it should  
have followed the rules set out in COBS. COBS  10.1.2 said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges  or deals  in relation to a non-readilv  realisable
security, speculative illiquid security, derivative  or warrant with or for a retail client.. .and
the firm is aware, or ought reasonably to be aware,  that the application or order is in
response to a direct offer financial promotion
Following on from this, COBS 10.2.1  provided:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter  applies, a firm must ask the client to
provide information  regarding  his knowledge and experience  in the investment field relevant
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to
assess whether the service or product envisaged  is appropriate  for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must  determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge  in order to understand  the risks involved in relation to
Ref: DRN84963142the product or service  offered or demanded.
The investigator said in his view, if it wasnt for St Pauls Marketings involvement which 
wasnt just limited to promotion, it was unlikely Miss S would have gone ahead  with the 
investment.
The investigator also didnt think St Pauls Marketing had met its obligations  under the 
regulators Principles for Business.  He noted firms must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence:  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them fairly: 
manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its customers and between a 
customer and another  client,  and take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice 
and discretionary decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment'.  
However he didnt  think St Pauls Marketing had followed these Principles. 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt
provide a response. The investigator  e-mailed both parties on 19 February 2021 explaining
that the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman  for review and to make  a final
decision. The investigator subsequently e-mailed both parties on 10 March 2021. He said 
that having reviewed  the case he thought  compensation should  be calculated slightly  
differently to what hed proposed in his assessment.  He set out how he thought  it should  be 
calculated. No further material evidence or arguments were presented by either party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt  respond to Miss S original complaint  or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered  the evidence that is available, including Miss S recollections  of 
events. The investigator  set out his thoughts  on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what  he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was 
involved from the outset  and following its input Miss S transferred  her pension to the SIPP 
and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for someone of Miss S 
background and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension in order  to invest  in this 
type of investment without prompting.  I think it was unlikely to have happened  without the 
involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in 
the debentures. It was aware of where the investment was going to be made and facilitated 
it. 
The investigator thought St Pauls  Marketing  had recommended  the investment to Miss S. 
The firm hasnt disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance  of the limited 
evidence thats  available, I think its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did advise 
Miss S to transfer and invest in the debentures. And given the significant risks presented by 
the investment,  I dont  think it was suitable for Miss S in her circumstances, particularly given 
she has said that she was a low risk taker with no investment experience. 
Ref: DRN84963143However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Miss S, I think the evidence  shows 
it was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily  realisable 
security.  COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing  to assess Miss S knowledge and 
experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service  offered 
or demand so that it could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for her.
Miss S said she had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. 
Ive seen no evidence  of Miss S having a history of making this type of investment. The 
debentures presented significant risks and were speculative. In my view they werent 
appropriate for Miss S given her knowledge and experience  and this should have been clear  
to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Miss S. Like the investigator,  I also dont think
the firm met its obligations under the regulators Principles for Business, in particular that it
didnt pay due regard  to the interests of Miss S and treat her fairly, or take reasonable care 
to ensure the suitability of its advice as I think Miss S was entitled to rely on its judgment.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls  Marketing  hadnt  advised Miss S to transfer and invest  in the 
debentures, or if it had told her they werent  suitable  or appropriate for her, she wouldnt 
have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Miss S to transfer and 
invest in a product  that she would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Miss S has claimed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss S complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Miss S on 
the following  basis. 
fair compensation 
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Miss S as close as possible 
to the position she would  probably now be in but for St Pauls  Marketings failures. I think 
Miss S would have  invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  she would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what I have  set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Miss S circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
what should  Alexander David do? 
To compensate Miss S fairly Alexander David Limited should compare the performance of     
Miss S investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value,  no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Limited  should also pay any interest as set out below.  If there is 
a loss, Alexander  David Securities Limited  should  pay into Miss S pension plan to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available  tax relief. Alexander David  Securities Limited 
Ref: DRN84963144shouldnt pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited  is unable to pay the compensation into Miss S pension 
plan it should  pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it 
would have provided a taxable  income.  Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Miss S actual or expected  marginal rate of tax at her 
selected retirement age. 
I think Miss S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Miss S would have been  
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the 
compensation.
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
13 
January 
2021The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 13 January 2021 
to decision date.  Then 
8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Miss S 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander  David  Securities Limited  should: 
Pay Miss S £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Miss S in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities 
Limited considers  that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss S how much it has taken off. It should also give 
Miss S a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN84963145Actual value 
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value 
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider would have been worth at the 
end date had it grown  in line with the benchmark.  
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when  it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Miss S circumstances were  consistent  with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in her complaint Miss S has said she was a low risk taker.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Miss S would have transferred but for St Pauls 
Marketings failures. But her existing pension was invested in funds presenting  a greater 
degree of risk than she has said she was prepared to accept. So I think its likely  she would 
have switched to funds better aligned to her risk profile if suitable  advice had been  given. I 
dont know exactly how she would have invested.  But I think  the index I have outlined above 
is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Miss S was 
willing and able to take. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Miss S risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared 
to take a limited  level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Miss S into that position. 
It doesnt mean that Miss S would have invested  50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather  I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects  the sort 
of return Miss S could  have obtained  from investments suited to her objectives and risk 
attitude. 
Ref: DRN84963146The investigator recommended  that fair compensation  be calculated as at 13 January  2021, 
the date that Miss S decided  to reinvest into the Just Loans  Debentures.  I think  this is fair 
given Miss S had made her decision to reinvest her money having already raised concerns 
about the suitability of the original advice to invest. In the circumstances I dont think 
Alexander David Securities Limited  is responsible for any losses arising from the re-
investment. 
And although Miss S may have suffered a degree of distress when the complaint was made 
and the return  provided on the debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a 
limited period given  she agreed to reinvest in the debentures when they matured in 
January 2021.  So I think  £100  is fair in the particular circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 July 2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8496314