K821x#15complaint
Ms G has complained that, in November 2018, Cofunds Limited failed to process her request  
to surrender an ISA in a timely  manner that she received  approximately £600 less than its 
value when she made the request.
Specifically, Ms G says that:
she needed the ISA proceeds  urgently and was told by Cofunds that it would take 
five days to make payment on receipt of her completed withdrawal form. She 
returned the form on 27 November 2018 and didnt receive payment until 
17 December 2018;
as her name on the ISA differed to that on her bank account, she enclosed an 
original deed of variation which wasnt sufficient to verify her bank account.  She was 
told she still needed to provide  either an original or a certified copy of a bank 
statement. She could  have provided a voided  cheque instead, but wasnt  told this 
until she called Cofunds again  on 3 December.
background
Ms G called Cofunds on 23 November 2018 to enquire about making a partial withdrawal 
from her ISA to the value  of £10,000. The Cofunds  representative offered to send her a 
withdrawal form by email, which Ms G needed  to complete and return by post. 
The representative also confirmed  that the process would take around 10 working days on 
receipt of their requirements,  including five working days  to sell the stock for cash before 
payment could be made to her bank account.
As it was, Ms G completed a withdrawal instruction form requesting  the ISA to be 
surrendered in full, quoting  its then current value of £13,476. The form confirmed that: 
Payments will typically take up to 10 business  days to reach your nominated bank account. 
The bank account Ms G nominated was held in her married name and the form stated that: 
Payments can only be made to accounts  in your name.
But Ms G enclosed with the form a certified statutory declaration  confirming that she ceased 
to be known by her married name since October  2013, together  with her birth certificate 
verifying her maiden  name as Ms G.
Ms G signed  and dated the withdrawal instruction form 22 October 2018.
On 27 November 2018, Cofunds  wrote  to Ms G explaining that shed nominated a bank 
account that wasnt in her name, as holder of the ISA, and advised that it couldnt pay the 
proceeds to a third partys bank account - the nominated bank account needed to be held in 
the name of Ms G.
Accordingly, it enclosed  a fresh withdrawal form to enable Ms G to nominate  a bank account 
held in her name.
In response, Ms G called Cofunds on 30 November  2018, explaining that shed 
accompanied the withdrawal form with a deed  of variation confirming her change of name 
Ref: DRN89299522back to Ms G since October 2013 and felt this should have been sufficient for Cofunds  to 
accept the bank account shed quoted  on the form. 
While Cofunds had overlooked that shed provided evidence of her change of name,  this still 
wasnt sufficient for it to make payment to her nominated bank account - she needed either 
to quote a bank account  in her current name or provide a copy of a statement from the 
account shed  quoted.  Cofunds did mention to her that it held details on its records of 
another account with the same bank in her maiden  name she could nominate but Ms G 
disputed that this account existed. She maintained Cofunds told her two weeks  ago that it 
would take five working days to process  her request. 
Ms G made her complaint in a telephone  call to Cofunds on 3 December 2018  that she 
ought to have been told in its letter of 27 November 2018 that an original bank statement or 
a voided  cheque was needed to verify the bank  account shed quoted on the withdrawal 
form. She repeated that shed been led to expect the process  would take five working days  
and she now had to borrow  the money she needed.  As she couldnt provide an original bank 
statement, she sent Cofunds a voided cheque from the bank account shed quoted, which  it 
received on 5 December 2018. 
On 7 December  2018, Ms G called Cofunds again complaining that shes been misinformed 
as to its requirements for paying her the ISA proceeds and that it was three weeks  since  she 
first requested payment. It seems Ms G cut short the call and Cofunds  took this to mean that 
she was withdrawing  her complaint.
But, on 11 December 2018,  Ms G called Cofunds  again dissatisfied that it hadnt 
acknowledged the complaint shed made  more than seven days ago and that the value of 
her ISA had fallen in the meantime.
In response, Cofunds accepted that it should  have noted the documentation she provided  
with the withdrawal form evidencing her change of name. Otherwise,  it still needed to verify  
her bank account details and didnt  think it had misinformed Ms G about its requirements  to 
pay her the ISA proceeds. When it received her voided  cheque  on 5 December 2018, 
payment went through on 17 December 2018 - within its service level timescale of 10 
working days.
Ms Gs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who noted that Cofunds was 
vague in its letter dated 27 November 2018 that it needed to verify the account she 
nominated and what it required to do so  i.e. production of a bank statement or a voided 
cheque. As such, he appreciated how Ms G might  believe the documentation  she provided  
with her withdrawal form had met Cofunds requirements.
Otherwise, he didnt think Cofunds  was being unreasonable when  it requested verification 
of her bank  account.  This was in line with its regulatory obligations. But, more  importantly, 
the process ensured the money was being sent to the correct  bank account. While Ms G 
might feel this was unreasonable given the delay it caused, he felt this was acceptable.
Also, Cofunds confirmed  it would take 10 working  days from receipt of the form to pay out 
the ISA proceeds  and it had sent Ms G the withdrawal form she requested  by email the 
same day. The investigator was satisfied that Cofunds paid Ms G the ISA proceeds within 
10 working days as the withdrawal form promised.
Cofunds received  its requirement from Ms G on 6 December 2018, which allowed it until 
Ref: DRN8929952320 December 2018 to make the transfer. It did so on 12 December 2018.
The investigator understood Ms Gs dissatisfaction that the value of her ISA fell by more than 
£600 since she completed the withdrawal  form. But it was unlikely she would receive 
£13,476, as the nature  of the investment meant  she could receive less in the time it would 
take to process  the transfer.
In response, Ms G disagreed with the investigators  view. She said that:
Cofunds letter dated 27 November 2018 shows it overlooked the documentation she 
provided to prove her change of name and, if it still needed to verify the bank account 
she gave, it should have confirmed its requirements  to do so in that letter, or even 
when she first called  on 23 November;
Cofunds received  its requirements on 4 December, and not on 6 December;
She didnt receive the ISA proceeds  until 18 December  2018, which  failed Cofunds  
service level standards.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including recordings and transcripts  of the 
telephone conversations  Ms G held with Cofunds in November and December 2018.
Based on the evidence  of these telephone calls, I can see that Cofunds  advised Ms G on 
23 November 2018 that the process of withdrawing  a lump sum would take up to 10 working 
days on receipt of its requirements.  At the end of the call, the representative emphasised 
that this timescale  included five working  days to sell the stock, pay it into the wrapper as 
cash and make payment  by CHAPS into Ms Gs nominated  bank account  before it could 
clear.
So, I cant agree  with Ms G that, when she next spoke to Cofunds  on 30 November 2018, 
her surrender request was already two weeks old, or that, by 7 December 2018, she had 
been in dispute with Cofunds over this  issue  for three weeks.
And I cant explain how Ms Gs withdrawal form came to be dated 22 October 2018 when 
she first enquired about surrendering her ISA (and received the withdrawal form by email) on 
23 November 2018.
Notwithstanding this, its evident that Cofunds received Ms Gs completed withdrawal form 
on 27 November 2018, together  with the deed of variation  confirming her change of name 
back to Ms G. But, in section 3 of the withdrawal form, she nominated a bank account held in 
her married  name.  So, in accordance with anti-money laundering regulations,  Cofunds 
couldnt pay the proceeds to this account  as, without verification, it was an account in the 
name of a third party. The account nominated to receive funds must be in the name of the 
ISA-holder, Ms G. Accordingly,  it wrote  to her on 27 November 2018  enclosing another  
withdrawal form for her to complete with details of a bank account held in her maiden name.
However, in its final response letter  dated  6 February  2019,  Cofunds accepted it had 
overlooked that Ms G had already notified  it on 27 November 2018  of her name change. And 
it subsequently confirmed in an email to the investigator dated 17 June 2019  that:
Ref: DRN89299524despite the change  of name information,  we would still have needed  an original bank 
statement, certified copy  of a bank statement or a void cheque  to allow verification of the 
bank  account. In order to comply with regulations,  the change of name deed alone  would  not 
have  been sufficient to verify  the bank account in a different name.
So, given Cofunds accepts there  was no need  for it to request confirmation of Ms Gs name 
variation on 27 November 2018,  all it needed to have done  in this letter is to request an 
original bank statement, certified copy of a bank  statement or a void cheque.  Had it done so, 
its likely  that Ms G would  have sent the voided cheque to Cofunds when she received  this 
letter on 30 November 2018,  which  Cofunds  would have received by return  on 3 December 
2018, the next working day.
As it was, Ms G called Cofunds on 3 December 2018 because she couldnt  provide an 
original bank statement  or a certified copy of a bank  statement. Only on 3 December was 
she advised to send a voided cheque instead, which Cofunds received on 5 December 
2018. So, two days were lost due to Ms G failing to be advised on 27 November 2018  that 
she could have provided a voided cheque to verify  her bank account.   
The surrender process  was completed within Cofunds standard  service  agreement of 10 
working days when  the value  of her ISA of £12,880.37  on 12 December 2018 was paid into 
the ISA wrapper,  and then by CHAPS into Ms Gs nominated bank account three working 
days later.  But Ms G ought  to have received the value  of her ISA at 10 December  2018  on 
13 December 2018.
When I put this proposal to both Cofunds  and Ms G informally  on 11 December  2019,  
Cofunds replied  that:
it needed to verify  that the bank  account Ms G provided on the withdrawal form did 
belong to her;
on 30 November 2018, it spoke not only to Ms G but also to her adviser to confirm  
that, although her change of name  had been  provided, it would still need verification 
of the bank account details, either  through an original bank statement or a voided 
cheque. So, as her adviser would have known the options available at that time, 
Ms G could  have been advised accordingly  and provided evidence  it required by 
3 or 4 December  2018;
while it didnt provide the option  of a voided  cheque in its letter of 27 November 
2018, it doesnt feel its fair that its held responsible given it made her adviser aware 
of its requirements at the time.
Ms G has not replied to my proposal  to uphold her complaint despite  several  attempts to 
contact her by telephone,  email and by letter on 9 January 2010. 
The telephone call between  Cofunds  and Ms G on 30 November 2018 concern the issue  
around the investment being  held in her maiden name and verification of the bank account in 
her married  name.  Although she provided  a deed  of variation confirming her name change 
back to Ms G, the account still needed  to be verified. Ms G did offer to provide details of 
another bank  account in her maiden name. But I cant see this issue  was ever resolved in 
these conversations other than the matter  would be referred back to Cofunds  withdrawals 
team. 
Ref: DRN89299525Also, Ive seen no evidence that Cofunds  spoke to Ms Gs adviser  around  30 November 
2018. There are telephone  conversations within Cofunds that the bank account provided by 
Ms G still needed to be verified by provision of a voided cheque  but theres no indication 
that either Ms G or her adviser was told this at that time.
So, Im inclined to say that the proposal I put informally to Cofunds  and Ms G to resolve  her 
complaint should  remain  unchanged.
decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
I require Cofunds  Limited  to pay her redress of F, where:
A = the value  of Ms Gs ISA on 10 December 2018;
B = interest on A at the rate of eight per cent per annum simple  for two days from 10 
December to 12 December 2018;
C = the value of Ms Gs ISA on 12 December 2018 of £12,880.37 she received on 
17 December 2018;
D = A  C = the loss in value  of her ISA for the delay  of two days in processing the 
withdrawal;
E = interest on D at the rate of eight  per cent per annum simple from 13 December 
2018 (when the value of her ISA in A would have cleared her bank account) to-date;
F = B + D + E
If F is negative, no redress is payable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8929952