K820x#14complaint
D, a limited liability partnership, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc did not deal with 
its requests about  its overdraft fairly  and has applied  excessive bank charges.
background
An overdraft for £10,000  was applied  to Ds business account at The Co-op in February 
2018 for a term of one year. In October  2018 D asked about increasing the overdraft but 
when told about  the charges decided against this. Instead in December 2018 it asked for 
confirmation that the existing overdraft would be renewed. The Co-op  did not agree and D 
decided to move its account  to another business.  The Co-op cancelled the overdraft 
resulting in unpaid items.  It has paid D compensation  of £200.
Our investigator did not recommend that it do anything more.  He said that:
-This service is not the regulator  and so we would not be able to consider fining The 
Co-op or requiring it to change its practices  as D wanted.
-We could consider the impact of the inconvenience to D but not the stress of its 
partners as it is a separate legal entity.
-The Co-op had set up the initial overdraft  for 12 months. There  was no request made 
for this to be on a revolving basis or requirement for it to offer this.
-The Co-op had made  a business  decision not to extend the overdraft and considered 
this in light of its criteria.
-Charges had been applied to the account in line with the published tariff and included 
a £10 monthly account fee. There was no evidence that these have been  incorrectly  
applied.
-The Co-op had made  two clear mistakes. It had said that a call on 24 December 
2018 about the overdraft was being recorded  but this was not correct. And it had 
removed the overdraft too early when the account was switched.
-It had refunded fees relating to items  that had been returned of £80, and paid £20 
towards call costs  and compensation of £100.
D did not agree. D said that if The Co-op had been concerned about the cash-flow  forecast 
then it could have  asked for more information.  It could not see why its business turnover of 
over £400,000 per annum was not thought sufficient to support the overdraft. It only agreed 
to pay the service charges and high transaction costs on the basis  that it had access  to an 
overdraft.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand  the concerns D raises about  it not thinking that The Co-op has provided 
support to it as a small business. And that it acted  unreasonably in not renewing the 
overdraft. Im afraid that I cant tell The Co-op  how to operate or if it should provide lending  
facilities and on what terms. Thats a matter  for its legitimate commercial discretion. D did 
not feel it was getting  the service it expected and was paying for and moved its account to 
another business as it was also entitled to.
I agree  with what our investigators said about  the original overdraft. That facility  was agreed 
for a year. And an overdraft facility is also technically repayable on demand.  There  was no 
Ref: DRN81528012requirement for The Co-op  to offer a revolving facility and that would have been subject to 
review.
D had a discussion with The Co-op about increasing  the overdraft facility in October 2018  to 
between £15,000  and £20,000. The case notes refer to D saying  that it had quieter Summer 
trading than expected and that there  was a settlement payment necessary. The Co-op told it 
the information it would need for the application and in November 2018 there was a 
discussion about the related fees. It would  have required  security. I appreciate D thought  
that these fees would be prohibitive and it never continued that application.
In December 2018 it discussed the existing facility with The Co-op  and wanted  to know if this 
would be extended.  The cash-flow forecast it provided was said to show a maximum  
borrowing requirement of £5,000. D asked  whether it could have a facility  of £9,000 but The 
Co-op did not think that this was supported by the evidence it had seen. It referred in a letter 
declining the facility to the cash-flow  and the level of turnover. That was not a particularly 
clear explanation but my understanding is that it had concerns about the lower  turnover  for 
the business that D had already told it about.  In any event it made a decision based  on the 
information provided and says it did not need  the more detailed  cash-flow forecast  D had 
offered to provide.
D decided to move the account. There was an error made about  the timing  of the switch 
which meant the overdraft  was removed too early  resulting in unpaid items. Im satisfied that 
The Co-op has taken  sufficient action as described above to address this. And to reflect the 
incorrect information over the recording of the telephone call in December 2018. 
Im afraid I dont see a direct link between the level of transaction  fees that D was paying and 
the overdraft. But in any event, apart from the error set out above, that overdraft  was in place 
while these  were being applied. So I dont have a reasonable basis to require The Co-op to 
do anything further  or refund any other fees. I appreciate  how disappointed the partners of D 
will be about  this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that The Co-operative Bank 
Plc need not take any further action on this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8152801