K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mrs S took out a PPI policy in 2009. Mrs Ss mortgage was with another product  provider at 
the time so the policy was a stand  alone  product. Mrs S, and her husband  did take a 
mortgage with Santander but that wasnt until 2011.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ss case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Ss PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   Ill explain why.
This has been a difficult case  to decide. Mrs S says the PPI was set up fraudulently. She has 
questioned why she would have taken  out PPI with Santander when it wasnt  her mortgage 
provider at the time. And she has couldnt understand why the policy was in her sole name  
she had the mortgage jointly wither her husband.  I can see she has concerns about  the 
policy and why she would have taken it. 
Santander has been able to give us a copy of the document that was completed by its 
representative at the time of the sale. It is dated 7 February 2009 and is timed at 12.59. 
Information contained in the document is detailed  it confirms  there  had been  a face to face 
meeting and gives the name of the representative. I note the meeting took place at a branch 
local to Mrs Ss then current address. The document includes details of Mrs Ss employment,  
salary, date of birth,  phone numbers, her eligibility  for the policy as well as the amount she 
wanted to protect, which was the mortgage  repayment amount. 
So while I fully appreciate Mrs Ss comments,  the above document does persuade me that a 
conversation happened  and Santander  made  Mrs S aware she had a choice  about  buying 
the policy, and that she chose to take it. Otherwise, I would question how the policy  came 
about in the first instance. 
And Mrs S would have  had to have gone  ahead with taking the policy,  and also giving 
Santander her bank account  details in order for her to be debited  monthly for the policy. 
Also, the policy was stand alone   it wasnt linked to Mrs Ss mortgage.  The policy was in 
place from 7 February 2009 to 3 December 2010 and it would have shown up as a separate  
debit on her bank account. I would have  expected  Mrs S to have queried  this at the time but 
there is no evidence  that she did. 
Ref: DRN82276092Santander has told us it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S, so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for her. But it did have to give Mrs S clear information about the PPI and it was for 
her to decide whether she wanted to take it. 
Clearly I dont know how the policy was presented to Mrs S and its possible the information  
Santander gave  Mrs S about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. But Mrs S 
chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
If Mrs S had made  a successful claim if she couldnt  work because or accident, sickness or 
involuntary redundancy, the policy would have covered  the monthly mortgage repayment for 
up 12 months. And this would have been over and above any employee benefits she may 
have received. 
Mrs S has said she could  have relied upon financial support from her parents if she had 
needed to. But their own circumstances could have  changed so I dont think  that offer of help 
could be guaranteed. So the policy would have been  useful for Mrs S if something  went  
wrong. And so I dont  think better  information about  the costs would have put her off taking 
out the cover.
Its also possible that Santander didnt point out the main things the policy wouldnt cover  a 
pre-existing medical condition as an example. But Mrs S doesnt  appear to have been 
affected by any of those  things. 
I know Mrs S will be extremely disappointed by my decision. And I can understand why she 
has concerns about the policy. But Id like to assure her Ive carefully considered  her 
comments, including what she has said about  not knowing she had the policy and it being 
added fraudulently. 
But I hope I have  explained how I have reached my decision.
Ref: DRN82276093my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8227609