K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G complains that U K Insurance Limited  unfairly  declined  her buildings  insurance  claim.
Background
In 2017, Mrs G noticed water ingress  in her home  which  was causing damage to her 
bedroom and became  worse when it rained. She thought recent storms may have caused 
damage to her roof. So she made a claim for this under her UKI home  insurance  policy.
UKI declined  the claim for external works  on the roof as it thought the damage  in that area 
had been caused by lack of maintenance  which it says isnt covered under the policy. But it 
agreed to carry out the internal repairs under  the accidental damage cover Mrs G has with 
her policy.
UKI sent a letter to Mrs G which said the claim would be covered. But it didnt  say this 
decision only applied to the internal damage. Mrs G raised concerns to UKI after learning 
about this. UKI accepted it couldve been  clearer  in its communication  about what was 
covered. So it agreed to carry out the external  repairs too. But it said this was being done 
separately to the claim. UKI appointed  Company A to carry out the repairs.
In January 2018, Mrs G reported the internal damage had reappeared in the same place as 
before. Again she said this occurred after rainfall  in her area. She said Company A hadnt 
carried out the external repairs properly. So she asked UKI to put things right.
Between the periods  of January  to July 2018,  Company A visited Mrs Gs property on 
several occasions to assess the damage. It inspected Mrs Gs roof and loft space. It found 
the roofing felt had perished,  which it said was age related wear and tear and would allow 
wind driven rain to bypass  the external fabric of the property. 
It also noted there was extensive efflorescence build up on the chimney stack, which occurs 
when the brick is wet for some time.  It said the chimney was open and didnt have a cowl or 
cap at the top, which could  allow moisture into the property. And given that the fire for the 
chimney was no longer  in use, it noted there  wasnt  any heat to dry the bricks out.
On receipt of Company As report,  UKI concluded  the damage that happened in 2017 had 
been corrected.  It said the initial damage site was behind the chimney stack with significant  
moss build up on the back curtain of the flashing.  It said this had led to a pooling  of damp 
which had rotted the lower portion  of the sarking felt. 
It said this damage combined  with driving  rain during poor weather conditions led to water 
ingress and the damage that was claimed  for in 2017. But it was satisfied Company A had 
addressed this problem and provided a quality repair.
It said it was very unlikely any further water ingress  would happen from the repaired site. So 
it agreed with Company  As report that the most recent water ingress was a result  of the lack 
of cowl or cap on Mrs Gs chimney stack. It said Mrs G should have one installed to see if it 
resolved the problem.
Mrs G said shed never had any problems with her chimney before.  And that if a chimney 
cap is the problem,  then she thinks UKI are responsible for installing this. So she brought  her 
complaint to this service.  
Ref: DRN81053522Our investigator reviewed  the information  provided  by both parties  and said she didnt have 
enough evidence  to conclude that UKIs  repairs hadnt been carried out properly. So on 
balance of the information she had, she didnt recommend it carry out any further works at 
Mrs Gs property.
However, the investigator did say UKI took longer than it should  have when  deciding  
whether it would cover the repairs for the further damage.  And she noticed Company A had 
missed a few appointments with Mrs G. So she said UKI should pay her £150 for the trouble 
and upset caused by this. 
UKI agreed  with the investigators findings, but Mrs G didnt. She still thinks UKI should carry 
out repairs to stop the water ingress at her property.  So the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Buildings insurance isnt designed to cover every  issue that affects a property. Its there to 
cover the cost of repairing  (or rebuilding) a property if its damaged  or destroyed  because of 
a type of unforeseen event, usually  referred to as an insured event or insured peril.  The 
terms and conditions of a policy will set out what insured events are covered under it. And 
the policy will be subject to certain  exclusions and limitations.
After reviewing the policy documents, Im satisfied Mrs Gs policy doesnt cover her for 
maintenance or routine  decoration of her property  or general wear  and tear. And Ive seen 
photographs that evidence the build-up  of moss around Mrs Gs chimney stack that UKI 
referred to in 2017. 
I think its reasonable to say the clearance of moss was part of the general maintenance of 
Mrs Gs property. And as a result, repairs to rectify damage that happened  because of 
Mrs G not doing this; wouldnt usually be covered under her policy  with UKI.
However, UKI did agree to cover  the external repairs  relating to the moss build up in this 
case. But it said this was being carried out separately to the claim. Either way, UKI agreed  to 
do the work, so Id expect it to carry out a repair that was effective and long lasting. Ive 
considered the evidence  available to see if I think it did this.
From what  Ive seen, the repairs Company A carried out to Mrs Gs property involved 
stripping out existing tiles and the lead side flashing  around the problem area of her 
chimney. And then it supplied and fitted  new tiles to this area including all dressings and 
laps.
Although given the opportunity, Mrs G hasnt arranged for an independent report  to assess 
the cause of the damage shes now experiencing. UKI on the other hand has provided us 
with reports from both Company A and its technical specialist. 
These reports contain photographs which seem  to evidence that the felt has begun to perish  
in Mrs Gs roof area. And I can see theres  no cap on the chimney and significant 
efflorescence on the brick stack. I agree with UKI that both of these issues  could provide an 
opening for water to enter  the property during rainfall.
Ref: DRN81053523Efflorescence is also an indicator that moisture is likely penetrating the chimney. And from 
the photos Ive seen  its quite extensive  in this case. Mrs G says the internal water damage 
gets worse when theres rain. And the open  chimney  could be an obvious  entry  point for 
water during  bad weather.
Mrs G thinks UKI should put a cap on her chimney  if it thinks this is the problem. But this 
type of work would be Mrs Gs responsibility  as its part of the general maintenance of her 
property  which isnt covered  under  her policy. So I wouldnt expect UKI to cover  any costs 
in relation to this.
Company A completed external repairs on Mrs Gs property in September  2017. And for a 
few months  over the winter period  where rainfall  most likely occurred, Mrs G didnt  have 
any further problems  with water ingress.  So on balance  and given the lack of supporting  
evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded in this case,  Company As repair  resolved that 
issue. 
Water has since found its way into Mrs Gs property again. But as Ive already explained, Ive 
seen evidence which shows  other entry points that could be allowing this to happen.
Based on the information Ive seen in this case,  I accept UKIs findings  that the most recent 
water ingress Mrs G is experiencing  isnt related to the repairs Company A carried out in 
2017. And that its more likely than not happening  as a result of lack of maintenance or wear  
and tear in other areas of Mrs Gs chimney and roof. As Ive explained, Mrs Gs policy 
doesnt cover her property  for routine maintenance  or wear and tear. So I wont  be asking 
UKI to do anything further in relation to this.
Im aware that Company  A missed a few appointments  to attend Mrs Gs property. And UKI 
took some  time to answer her query  about  whether the most  recent  damage  was covered 
under her policy. It said this was because Company A was waiting for rainfall to help it 
accurately identify the path of water. 
Mrs G underwent an operation around  the time she raised the most  recent  issues with UKI. 
And she said she found the waiting time and delays stressful.  I think  UKI couldve answered  
Mrs Gs claim sooner  because theres quicker  ways to identify a path of water without 
waiting for rain. And its unacceptable, that appointments were  missed on more than one 
occasion. 
Because UKI couldve  provided a better service at times, I agree with the investigator that it 
should pay Mrs G £150 compensation  for the trouble and upset  caused  to her. 
Im aware the decision Ive reached in this case isnt the outcome Mrs G was hoping  for and 
so will likely  come as a disappointment  to her. But I hope she can understand why I think this 
is a fair conclusion for the reasons Ive explained above.
My final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance  Limited  should pay Mrs G £150 compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to her.
Ref: DRN81053524U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation  within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mrs G accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8105352