K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way that The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB)  has managed 
their mortgage account. 
In summary,  their complaint is that TMB:
applied an incorrect interest rate to their mortgage resulting in them making  
overpayments
didnt respond  to their requests to extend  their mortgage 
will not formally  extend the term of their mortgage
Mrs B has managed the complaint  throughout. 
Mrs B would like TMB  to apply the overpayments that she thinks  theyve made  to their 
mortgage account and formally extend their term so they can apply for a lifetime  mortgage 
with another provider and stay in their home.
background
In October  2007, Mr and Mrs B took out an interest  only mortgage with TMB for £355,000  
over six years. £5,325.00 of fees were added to the loan so the total sum borrowed was 
£360,325.
The rate on this mortgage was fixed at 5.84% for two years until October 2009. After this the 
mortgage rate switched  to the Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Mr and Mrs B later 
experienced some financial  difficulty and the mortgage fell into arrears. TMB also charged  
them arrears  fees during  this time.
In March 2018, TMB wrote to Mr and Mrs B to say that they had identified some  arrears 
management fees that may have been  inappropriately  charged to customers  who fell behind 
on their mortgage payments. It apologised and said that it was refunding  all relevant fees 
charged to the account since 1 January 2009, together  with the interest charged on those 
fees. TMB explained that it has not recalculated the monthly mortgage payment as the account 
was in arrears. TMB  explained  that it credited Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage account with 
£2,734.40. Mrs B said that she shouldnt be in arrears at all as she believes shes made 
overpayments to her account  as the interest rate has been too high. Specifically, Mrs B has 
made calculations  and thinks that her mortgage balance should  be reduced by £35,293.20  
because of the overpayments she says shes been  making due to the interest rate charged 
being too high. 
Mrs B has also complained that TMB will not formally extend the term of their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs B were  aware  that the term of their mortgage was coming to an end in 2013 so 
wrote to TMB in January and October  2013 asking  for a term extension. When they didnt 
receive a response  they instructed their solicitors to write in November 2013 to ask for the 
term to be formally extended by two years. In this letter,  Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors said that 
they understood the account  was in arrears but that Mrs B could pay £8,000 from a tax 
rebate and increase her monthly payment to cover the arrears, which  were  estimated at 
around £10,000.
Ref: DRN81716042TMB said it would not formally extend  the term as the account was in arrears.  It wrote to Mr 
and Mrs B in April 2014 explaining that the term had expired and asked Mr and Mrs B to 
contact them  to discuss their options. TMB  sent a number of letters repeating  this over the 
next few years. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
thought that TMB had acted fairly in requesting the full balance  to be repaid.  She also 
thought that Mr and Mrs B hadnt made overpayments but, instead, had been fairly charged  
the interest rate that TMB set, in line with the mortgages terms and conditions. 
She also thought  that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the rate changing  from the fixed  rate 
to the SVR in 2009 and the customer service received around this time, falls outside our 
services jurisdiction. 
Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. She said,  in 
summary, that her complaint wasnt fully considered  by the investigator and the issue  with 
her overpayments was overlooked. She also said she felt that she was left with an ultimatum 
to sell the property  and move on. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs ill health and I dont doubt that the last few years have 
been difficult for Mr and Mrs B. I realise that it must  be distressing to consider selling their 
home.
interest rate change  in 2009  and customer service received
TMB didnt agree we could look at the part of the complaint  about  customer service  issues 
and the change in interest  rate that happened  in 2009. Our rules  are set by the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. The section of our rules which applies to this complaint says 
that, unless TMB consents  (and it hasnt), I cant look at a complaint if its been brought:
more than six years after the event complained  of; 
or, if later, more than three years after Mrs B knew- or ought reasonably to have 
been aware - she had cause to complain;
unless the complaint  was brought within the time limits, and theres  a written 
acknowledgement of it or some other evidence of it having been received;
or unless  there are exceptional circumstances that explain why the complaint wasnt  
made in time
The original  interest  rate change from the fixed rate to the SVR was in 2009. The customer 
service that Mrs B is complaining about also happened in the same year. So any complaint 
about both of these issues is now out of time on the six year part of the rule. 
So Ive thought about the three year part of the rule, and when I think Mr and Mrs B ought 
reasonably to have  become aware  that they has a reason to complain.
Ref: DRN81716043As Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy with the customer service  in 2009, I think  they were  aware  
then and they could have  complained at the time about this, or within three  years. So I 
consider that they had until 2012 to make raise a complaint about this. As they didnt make a 
complaint until 2018, I consider that this aspect of their complaint is out of time.
Im able to look at complaints made out of time if there are exceptional circumstances that 
prevented Mr and Mrs B from making  the complaint sooner. Mr and Mrs B havent said that 
there were any exceptional  circumstances  that prevented them  from making a complaint 
about the customer service in 2009  or the interest rate charged sooner. I consider the aspect 
of the complaint about the customer service to have been made  out of time.   
Ive also considered whether Mr and Mrs B could have reasonably  become aware that they 
had a cause to complain about the rate of interest applied to their mortgage at a later date. 
In this case, I think Mr and Mrs B were  aware  of how much  interest  they were paying  on their 
mortgage. They were  receiving regular mortgage statements that clearly showed  how much 
interest that they were paying. 
But I think theres an ongoing obligation for a lender to provide a fair rate of interest to its 
customers. I think Mr and Mrs B are not complaining about the interest rate applied  as a one 
off, but rather as an ongoing  matter.  So I consider that Mr and Mrs B can make a complaint  
about the interest rate charged back to 2012,  which is six years before  they complained, to 
the date of this decision. 
interest rate charged
Mrs B has said that they have made  overpayments to the mortgage  of around £35,293.20  
from October 2007 until September 2018. She has made these calculations and it seems  
that Mrs B believes she has overpaid as she thinks the interest rate on her mortgage was 
higher than it should have  been.  Please note that, for the reasons explained above, Ill only 
consider the interest rate charged  from 2012  onwards. 
In Mrs Bs calculations she quotes  the Bank  of England base rate at the time. She also asks 
for a separate body to look into TMBs  interest rate charges.  Our service can look at how 
businesses have applied  their interest rate to their consumers mortgage accounts and that 
is what Ive looked  at in this case. 
Mrs B has said that as the Bank  of England  base  rate was around 0.5%, TMB charged an 
unfairly high interest  rate for over a period  of 10 years. I do understand Mrs Bs concerns 
here, but the SVR on this mortgage  did not track the Bank of England base  rate and was 
charged as follows:
5.84%  from 15 October  2007  to 31 October 2009
4.84%  from 1 November 2009  to 31 October 2011
4.95%  from 1 November 2011  to 31 August 2018
5.20%  from 1 September 2018 onwards
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage that they agreed  to when 
they took it out. These explain that the lender may vary the SVR, and they give a list of 
reasons for why the rate may be varied.  Theres nothing in the terms and conditions  of their 
mortgage that suggests a change in the Bank  of England base rate would, or should,  result 
in a change to the SVR that TMB  charges.
Ref: DRN81716044The terms of the mortgage explain that the interest  rate applicable is variable, and the bank 
set this rate. So whilst  I appreciate Mrs B feels that the interest  rate shes  paid has been too 
high in comparison to the Bank of England base rate, Im satisfied  TMB have charged 
interest in line with the terms  of Mrs Bs mortgage, and were entitled to do so.
I can also see that an early repayment  charge (ERC) only applied when Mrs B was in the 
fixed rate part of her mortgage. So after 31 October 2009, there was no ERC applicable 
whilst the mortgage  was on the SVR and so there was nothing  in the contract stopping her 
redeeming her mortgage early if she wanted to look for another interest  rate elsewhere, if 
she was unhappy  with the rate that TMB were  charging.
Ive looked at TMBs SVR,  and Ive considered whether its broadly in line with other SVRs  
set by comparable  lenders  since  2012. Im satisfied  that this rate is broadly comparable  with 
similar lenders  SVRs. Overall, in all the circumstances, I dont think TMB has treated Mr and 
Mrs B unfairly in the rate that its applied to their mortgage. 
extending the term
Ive seen the mortgage offer which details  an ISA as the intended repayment method for 
their interest-only mortgage. Mrs B has said that they do not have the funds to clear  the 
capital of the mortgage but I understand that Mrs B explained to our investigator that the 
original plan was to sell the house  at the end of the term to repay the mortgage. Shes  said 
they have changed their minds due to Mr Bs ill health and that it would be too difficult  for 
him to move  at this stage. 
I understand that Mrs B has said that, without this refund of the overpayments  that she 
thinks they have  made,  they will not be able to apply for a re-mortgage  because their total 
income is considered  too low to be able to afford the mortgage. She has said that if the sum 
is deducted from the mortgage then they can apply to re-mortgage or apply for a lifetime 
mortgage. Im afraid that, for the reasons outlined above, I dont think  a reduction on the 
mortgage is due.
She has said that their house has a large  equity as it is currently worth  around £730,500. I 
can see from the businesses contact notes that Mrs B has considered obtaining  a lifetime 
mortgage and shes said that the best offer she has received is £316,000. This would still 
leave a shortfall in the amount due to TMB.  
Mrs B has also said that they have  lost out on an opportunity  to re-mortgage elsewhere as 
TMB did not respond to their requests asking for a term extension. I can see that TMB did 
reply to these requests  to decline them as the account was in arrears and that they have 
sent a number of letters  reminding Mrs B that the balance  remains  outstanding. So I dont 
think TMB  has acted  unfairly here. 
Having considered everything, I do think that TMB has treated Mr and Mrs B fairly.  I can see 
from the contact notes that TMB has been in touch regularly and has not taken any 
immediate action to recover  the debt. Several  reminders have been sent since  the term 
ended in 2013 and I havent seen anything to suggest that TMB has chased Mr or Mrs B 
unreasonably to repay this debt. 
TMB agreed to lend Mr and Mrs B the mortgage  funds until November 2013. Mr and Mrs B 
havent repaid  this amount, or put forward a proposal that TMB  has been happy to accept. I 
do understand that their circumstances have changed and that this is a difficult  time for Mr 
and Mrs B. But Im satisfied that TMB has given Mr and Mrs B enough time and space to try 
Ref: DRN81716045and find a suitable way to repay the mortgage.  And I dont think  it would  be fair to expect  
TMB to continue the current arrangement indefinitely. 
Mr and Mrs B have  said their house  is now worth  around £730,500  so I think  they have other 
options available to them to repay the mortgage  debt now that its due. For example, they 
could sell the house, repay  the mortgage,  and still have  enough  money left over to downsize. 
If they do decide to do this then I would expect TMB  to allow  them adequate time to sell the 
property. 
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs B but based on everything Ive 
seen, I dont think TMB has treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly, and so I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 November  2019.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8171604