K822xcomplaint
Mrs T is unhappy  with the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled  her claim for 
subsidence and subsequent repairs.
For ease, any reference to Aviva also include its agents.
background 
Some years  ago, Mrs T logged a claim for subsidence which  was thought  to be initially  
resolved but later reoccurred  in around 2010. Aviva believed the damage was being caused  
by tree roots and other vegetation close by and arranged for these to be removed. In early  
2019 this service considered a complaint about  delays and an investigator recommended  
that further monitoring took place to see if the property  was stable and then for the works to 
be completed.
Following more monitoring, Aviva told Mrs T that her property was now stable, except  for 
seasonal movement which it said was within  acceptable levels.  But it also told her that it had 
recently found the foundations on the kitchen extension to the property were  too shallow and 
it was considered a defective design  which  isnt covered by the policy. Aviva went on to 
say it believed that if the foundations had been  built to the correct  depth it would have 
prevented the subsidence  from happening.  As a result, Aviva said it would pay for the 
superstructure repairs as a gesture  of goodwill but that it wouldnt arrange for the problem 
with the foundations to be rectified as it considered  this to be betterment. It also informed 
Mrs T that the cracks  in the main building were not subsidence related and so these wouldnt 
be included  in this repair.
Unhappy with this response Mrs T brought a further  complaint  to this service.  She said Aviva 
insured her whole property and so it should  repair  the cracks in the main  house too. And as 
the monitoring reports still showed  that there was movement, she didnt think  the extension 
repairs should be completed without doing  any works to the foundations  as the property 
wasnt stable. Our investigator looked into the matter and found that Aviva wasnt  
unreasonable in declining  to cover the repairs  to the main house as it had provided an expert 
report to show this was likely due to construction, rather than subsidence. So, she said that 
Aviva didnt have to complete the repairs on the main building.
In relation to the kitchen extension, our investigator  said that as there was still some  
movement showing on the monitoring reports, she didnt think  that a lasting and effective 
repair could be achieved  at this time.  She said it wasnt reasonable for Aviva to complete the 
repairs whilst movement was still being detected.
Our investigator also looked into the matter regarding the foundations. She found that the 
building guidelines Aviva referred  to werent  requirements that had to be followed on the 
extension - as these related to new build properties.  And Aviva  hadnt shown that the 
Building Regulations that were in force at the time,  which the build  of the extension would 
have been subject to, hadnt  been followed so didnt  think  it was reasonable to say that the 
damage had occurred as a result of a faulty  design or poor workmanship. She 
recommended that Aviva  complete all of the works necessary to ensure the property was 
stable before completing the superstructure repairs. In addition,  she said that Aviva  should 
pay £150 to Mrs T in recognition of the distress and worry caused to her when it determined 
it could complete the substructure repairs when there was still evidence  of movement.
Ref: DRN88106312Mrs T accepted our investigators  view, but Aviva didnt. It maintained that the property was 
stable  with the only movement being seasonal and within acceptable tolerances.  It didnt 
agree that it needed to do any work to the foundations  and that the superstructure  repairs 
were all that were necessary to resolve  this current issue. But it also reiterated that the 
foundations didnt meet the relevant Building  Regulations as it said these required the 
structure to be designed  so that subsidence  damage  due to soil shrinkage or swelling didnt 
occur. And that, as the damage  occurred  as a result of such  conditions,  it therefore follows 
that the regulations werent met. Aviva also said that the builders would have  had a duty to 
build the extension to an appropriate  standard and any building professional at the time 
would confirm that the building guidelines it had referred to provided that standard. It 
maintained that the exclusion relating to faulty  workmanship and defective  design would 
apply and it would only provide cover  for the superstructure repairs  to the extension as a 
gesture of goodwill.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
On 2 February 2021, I issued my provisional  decision. In it I said;
When this complaint was made to our service there  were two distinct  areas of concern; the 
main house  and the extension. Our investigator  said she didnt think  that the main  house  
was suffering from subsidence or any other insured peril and therefore Avivas  decision not 
to provide cover for this damage was reasonable. Im aware  Mrs T has accepted our 
investigators view and so I wont be looking into this aspect  in my response.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  that Mrs Ts extension has previously suffered from 
subsidence which related to trees and vegetation nearby. Im aware that there has been a 
number of complaints  made to this service  in recent years, however, this complaint centres 
on two aspects; whether  Mrs Ts extension  can be considered as stable, based on the 
monitoring reports, and if Avivas decision to not complete repairs on the extension 
foundations for this reason, along with its reliance on the exclusion on the policy  relating to 
defective design is fair and reasonable.
In deciding this sort of question, I generally  rely on expert opinion. The only expert opinion  in 
this complaint has been provided by Avivas  engineer. He has said that he doesnt  accept 
that the property  is currently subsiding or moving. He has reported that the levelling 
exercise from April 2019  to January 2020 has shown negligible movement (less than 2mm 
level difference) I would consider  level movement  of up to 10mm  to be related to common 
seasonal movements. Level readings  are well within this tolerance.
There has also been monitoring of the cracks inside Mrs Ts property. Avivas  engineer  has 
reported that the crack damage is less than 5mm wide and is easily  repairable.  Over the 
same period  of monitoring as before,  he has said that the five monitoring stations have,  on 
the whole, shown negligible movements of less than 0.5mm. He has referred to one crack 
showing closure of up to 1mm and, where  one crack has shown movement of up to 2.5mm  
he has said he thinks this is either due to a miss-reading or thermal/shrinkage movement. 
The engineer has stated that he believes only superstructure repairs are required to the 
kitchen extension.
Ive thought about this carefully.  I accept  Mrs Ts view that there is still movement, but the 
engineer has explained  that this is seasonal and within acceptable tolerances.  He has 
referred to a technical  guide on subsidence  damage  which  states some small seasonal 
movements are inevitable, and movements of a few millimetres will have no more effect on 
Ref: DRN88106313the property than normal thermal expansion  and contraction. And without any other  expert 
advice to the contrary, Im persuaded that the movement shown is within  normal levels  and 
therefore Avivas plan to complete the superstructure repairs only (i.e. the cracks in the 
extension) is reasonable. The identified  cause of the movement (the vegetation)  has been 
removed and a subsequent period of monitoring has shown no further  movement, so the 
evidence suggests  Aviva has stabilised the property.
Aviva has only agreed to pay for the superstructure repairs as a gesture of goodwill as it 
says that the foundations on the extension didnt meet the Building Regulations and 
guidelines that applied when it was built. It says the foundations are therefore  a defective 
design which is excluded  under the policy. Where an insurer  seeks  to rely on a policy  
exclusion the onus  is on it to show that the exclusion applies. Aviva has referred  to 
standards applied by a certain  builder  of new homes which  were  in force from 1974  I 
understand Mrs Ts extension was built around 1982. It says these  guidelines recommend a 
minimum foundation  depth of 1500mm, when considering the nearby trees. Following  
excavations at Mrs Ts property, the foundations of the extension appear  to be in the region 
of 450mm to 600mm which is approximately  one third of the depth of the guidelines.
Mrs Ts extension isnt subject to these guidelines  for new homes and only general Building 
Regulations would apply  the one valid at the time of the construction of the extension 
doesnt stipulate the actual depth  required but simply states;
The foundations of a building shall:
b) be taken  down to such a depthas  to safeguard  the building  against  damage
by swelling, shrinking
Aviva has argued that the Building Regulations  havent been met as the foundations  have  
allowed for this damage to occur. But I dont  agree with that point as this could then be 
interpreted that no property built when these regulations  were  in force should ever suffer 
from subsidence  which would be unreasonable. However, I do understand the general 
point that Aviva is making here. I think it is fair to say that there was a duty to build the 
extension to an appropriate standard  by designing the foundations to ensure they could 
support the structure over a reasonable period  of time. As Mrs Ts property wasnt newly  
built in 1982 and there is no evidence  to show that the regulations at the time for extensions 
required adherence to the same guidance as new build properties, the builder wasnt  
required to comply with these standards. So, I dont think  these should  be considered. I 
would therefore  need to see evidence  of relevant guidance or standards from the time of the 
construction with specific foundation depth requirements which would  be pertinent to the 
build of Mrs Ts extension (rather than new build  properties). Currently Aviva  hasnt provided 
such evidence. So, I cannot  currently agree  that the extension wasnt  built to an appropriate 
standard.
When looking at complaints regarding defective  design of foundations, it is important to 
consider the time that has passed  since construction. Aviva  has mentioned that the first 
signs of cracking in the property occurred around  1994 but it hasnt provided any further 
evidence to show this was as a result  of foundation movement.  And from the information we 
have available, the movement that has occurred since 2010 has been  attributed to roots 
from trees and other vegetation, but the property has stabilised once these have  been  
removed. So, it would  seem that this damage hasnt been caused by any foundation 
movement. As the property had been standing  for almost 30 years  by that point, even  if 
Aviva now believes the foundations are not of a suitable depth, Im persuaded that the 
foundations have supported the building for a reasonable period and therefore  they have 
Ref: DRN88106314stood the test of time. Im of the opinion it would  be unreasonable  to say this claim has been  
caused by a defective design.
Having carefully considered this matter, I dont think there is enough evidence to support 
Avivas decision to decline the claim on the basis  of the defective  design of the foundations. 
So, Im persuaded  that Aviva needs  to accept the claim. That will mean it should carry out 
the appropriate repairs. But as Ive already mentioned, Im satisfied Aviva has shown  that the 
property has stabilised and therefore  it doesnt need to carry out works to the foundations,  
such as underpinning, to deal with the claim  fairly.
Our investigator recommended that Aviva pay Mrs T £150 in compensation for the distress 
and upset caused. Im aware that this Mrs T has been suffering from poor health throughout 
this time and the delay in resolving this matter will have had an impact. So, Im persuaded 
that Aviva  should pay Mrs T £150  in recognition of the ongoing  delays.
Aviva responded to confirm it accepted the provisional decision. Mrs T also responded. She 
said there was a sunken lawn next to the kitchen extension which  has lowered the level of 
the ground. She says this is the level Aviva  has used  when deciding the foundations are too 
shallow. And she has also referred to letters  she has from around the time the extension was 
built which outline what works needed to be done to qualify for a council grant  and refers  to a 
completion certificate provided which certifies that the property is fit for human habitation.  
In relation to the movement monitoring,  Mrs T has provided crack and level monitoring  
reports from September 2019 which  she says show that there is still movement.  She has 
also questioned  the independence of the experts  providing this information as she feels that 
they will be trying  to keep costs down on behalf  of their employer, in this case Aviva.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mrs Ts comments carefully, but these  dont  persuade me to alter my 
outcome. 
I thank Mrs T for providing more information  and explanation around  why she thinks  Aviva 
shouldnt be disputing the issue of the foundations.  As explained in the provisional decision, 
Im not satisfied that Aviva has shown that the foundations are of a defective design. So, this 
means Aviva cannot fairly decline the claim  on that basis. It must consider the claim and 
complete the appropriate repairs.
In relation to the point about  the movement, Ive seen  the monitoring reports  that Mrs T has 
sent to us. These particular reports from September 2019 were  part of the information  
reviewed by Avivas engineer. As detailed previously, the engineer  has explained that the 
movement is minimal and within seasonal tolerances,  so Im persuaded  the property has 
stabilised - Aviva doesnt therefore  need to carry out works to the foundations.  Ive noted 
Mrs Ts concerns in relation to the independence of the expert but there  is no evidence to 
demonstrate that his conclusions are inaccurate. The report  details a plausible  explanation 
for the minimal movement and, without  evidence to the contrary, Im still of the opinion that it 
is reasonable for Aviva to rely on this information and only complete the appropriate 
superstructure repairs.
Ref: DRN88106315Mrs T has referred  to other outstanding  repairs needed on her property that she hasnt 
pursued due to this ongoing matter  she said it didnt make  sense to complete these works 
if it was agreed that the foundations needed repairing. I appreciate why Mrs T may have  put 
other repair work on hold and that this has likely caused her inconvenience. As explained  in 
the provisional decision, Aviva needs to pay compensation  to Mrs T of £150 in recognition of 
the delays.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following; 
Accept the claim
Pay Mrs T £150 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2021.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8810631