K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complained to The Co-operative  Bank Plc (the Co-op)  that she had not received the 
compensation it had offered to her for a mis-sold  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy 
connected to a mortgage. 
background
In 2012 Miss S and her husband complained to the Co-op that they had been  mis-sold PPI 
with their mortgage. The complaint was upheld and an offer of compensation was made 
which was accepted. The Co-op then sent a cheque  to Mrs S for the compensation.
In 2018 Mrs S representative contacted  the Co-op  to complain the PPI had been  mis-sold. 
The Co-op responded that the complaint  had already been dealt with in 2012 and 
compensation had been  paid.
Mrs S said she didnt  remember  ever making  a complaint previously or receiving any 
compensation. So she thought the compensation was still owed.
The Co-op said it had paid a cheque to Mrs S in 2012 which had been cashed and so it 
didnt owe her anything  further. Mrs S didnt agree and brought her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator said that the Co-op  hadnt done anything wrong. But Mrs S was still unhappy 
and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have some concerns  about whether this complaint about non-payment of compensation for 
mis-sold PPI should be considered by this service. This is because  the original complaint 
about the mis-sale  took place in 2012.  At that time Mrs S, together  with her husband, was 
given rights to bring her complaint to this service if she wasnt happy with what  the Co-op  
had done. But she had to bring that complaint to us within six months of the offer letter.
It was some six years after the offer had been made and the cheque  sent out that Mrs S 
raised her issue about the non-receipt of the compensation. I understand a CMC, under her 
instructions, contacted the Co-op about  mis-sold PPI and was told the issue had already 
been resolved.  Mrs S said she didnt recall making a complaint  to the Co-op  herself or 
receiving any compensation. So she went to the Co-op herself  about  the compensation not 
being received  and then brought  it to this service.  This was in August 2018.
The Co-op did not raise  any issues about this service looking at the complaint when it was 
first brought to us. It was only after our adjudicator  had issued their view and the parties 
were told the matter was going to an ombudsman that the Co-op said as Mrs S didnt raise 
an issue within six months of the offer letter we shouldnt look at this complaint.  This 
indication was contained in a business  response form which  was submitted with numerous 
other documents the Co-op  said it wanted  the ombudsman  to be aware of.
Ref: DRN85764332I have noted that objection  by the Co-op but as they never raised  any concern about this 
previously, and provided full co-operation  and information about the issues  when we first 
investigated this matter, I think it is fair that I indicate my thoughts about the issues.
In 2012 Mrs and Mr S submitted a complaint to the Co-op about  mis-sold PPI. I have seen a 
number of documents from this time and can see the complaint was lodged  in their joint 
names and the offer letter  sent to them both. 
Mrs S signed an acceptance  of the offer on 28 August 2012 and a cheque was issued in 
Mrs S name on 28 August 2012. That cheque was presented to a bank  near where Mrs S 
lives, on 3 September 2012. A copy of the processed cheque has been provided and the 
details on the back of it reflect the branch number of the bank where it was presented. The 
fact the processed  cheque is available indicates  it was cashed.
I have checked  the signature on the signed  acceptance of the offer of compensation in 2012 
against some recent documents  Mrs S has signed  and I think the signatures  match.  So 
although Mrs S says she cant remember anything about the complaint in 2012,  I think that 
may just be because it was over six years ago, a lot has happened since  then and she may 
have forgotten.
Im therefore  satisfied that the Co-op hasnt done  anything wrong  and Mrs S has received 
from them the cheque  for the compensation and it was cashed. If Mrs S has concerns about  
the account the cheque  was paid into then she would need to check  with her bank to 
ascertain what accounts she had at the time, in her own name  or in joint names.  And if she 
has any issues with her own bank  that would have  to be dealt with separately.
As Ive said already, I am not sure this is a complaint we should have considered.  However 
in view of the detailed submissions made by both parties I felt issuing this decision was fair, 
as it would bring closure to any complaint against the Co-op  with regards to the 
compensation for the mis-sold PPI complaint connected with Mrs S mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above Im satisfied  The Co-operative  Bank  Plc has paid 
compensation to Mrs S for the mis-sold PPI with her mortgage  and Im not telling the bank  to 
do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Christine Fraser
ombusdsman
Ref: DRN8576433