K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Metro Bank  PLC unfairly  placed a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System (CIFAS)  marker  against her name. And closed her accounts. She wants  Metro to 
remove the marker.
background
On 8 October 2017, Miss M opened three  current accounts with Metro. Miss M opened two 
of the accounts  in branch  and one online. 
At the time of opening the accounts in branch, Metro provided Miss M with bank cards  for 
each account  and Miss M set up PINs, which were chosen by her, for both cards.  
Miss M also set up her online banking, and she chose a password  and security  number in 
order to access her accounts online.
Metro has explained  that when a customer accesses their account  through their online 
banking facility, they have to pass through  various  layers of security first, and answer 
questions, some of which are personal  to them. So as to make sure any activity has been 
initiated and authorised by the customer.  Also as part of Metros  security processes each 
time a customer accesses their online banking they are required to enter a 12 digit customer  
number, then enter characters from their password  and security number. This security 
information is personal to each  customer.
On 10 October 2017, £25,000 was paid into Miss Ms account. On the same  day the money 
was moved between Miss Ms accounts  via online banking and spent via card payments. 
On 11 October 2017, Metro was contacted by another bank, which  I will refer to as bank A, 
who said their customer  did not authorise  the payment of £25,000  to Miss Ms account.  
And they had been the victim of a scam. Bank A also said that it had managed  to stop a 
further payment  of £25,000 being sent to Miss Ms account.
Following this notification, on 12 October  2017, Metro decided  to close  Miss Ms accounts. 
Metro also thought Miss M had misused  her account  so they applied  a CIFAS marker  
against her name.
Miss M says not long after opening her accounts  she lost her wallet  at work which  contained 
her bank cards. She says she never reported  this to Metro as her accounts had no money  in 
them. So she wasnt  worried.  She also says that she had trouble logging  into her online 
banking. But again she didnt let Metro know she was having any difficulties.  Miss M says 
that after Metro  closed her accounts she wasnt able to open  other  bank accounts  so she 
contacted CIFAS who told her to speak to Metro.
In February 2018,  Miss M contacted Metro online. She said that someone had messaged 
her on social  media offering her a money  making  opportunity. Following this contact, 
Miss M says she spoke to a male on the phone who explained she needed to provide her 
bank details. And the male then arranged a friend  of his to collect her bank card and login 
details from her. Miss M says not long after this happened,  the social media  account  was 
deactivated and she was unable to contact  the male again.
In May and June 2018, Miss M rang Metro to find out how she could have the marker  
removed. During the calls she told Metro that she had lost her wallet, which contained all her 
Ref: DRN82796142bank cards, at work not long after she opened  her accounts. And she wasnt involved in any 
fraudulent activity, 
In July 2018, Miss M complained to Metro and asked them  to remove the marker. 
Metro refused and asked  Miss M to provide  proof of entitlement to the money which  was 
paid into her account on 10 October, 2017. Miss M wasnt able to provide anything.  She said 
that shed seen the fraudulent activity  on her accounts. And that it wasnt anything  to do with 
her. 
Unhappy with Metros  response,  Miss M brought her complaint to this service. 
An investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint  and said Metro hadnt done  anything wrong 
when it closed Miss Ms account  and had done  so in accordance with the terms and 
conditions. She also said Metro hadnt treated Miss M unfairly when it had applied the CIFAS 
marker. Miss M disagreed. So the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator. And Ill explain why.
CIFAS marker
Miss M has maintained she had nothing to do with the fraudulent  funds being paid into her 
account in October  2017. And that she didnt use any of the money.  She says shes  been the 
victim of a scam. And says Metro  has treated her unfairly. She wants  Metro to remove the 
CIFAS marker.   
Initially, Miss M told Metro shed lost her wallet, containing her bank cards, whilst she was at 
work. But Miss M didnt  report the loss or theft of her cards  to Metro  or the police. And she 
couldnt be specific about when this happened. I dont find this explanation plausible.  I say 
this because it doesnt explain how an unknown third party  was able to obtain Miss Ms PIN 
and online banking information, including her online security information  all of which  were  
used to transfer the fraudulent funds  between Miss Ms accounts and authorise  payments 
out of her accounts.  Ive also kept in mind that Miss M has since changed her version  of 
events when she spoke  to our investigator.
Miss M told our investigator  that shed been  approached via a social media site by a man 
she didnt know offering what she described  as a money making  opportunity. She says 
following the initial contact, a man visited her at work and she gave him her bank cards and 
online banking information.  Miss M says she didnt question  the man about why her online 
bank account  details and cards were  needed.  Miss M says she can no longer contact this 
individual. And unfortunately, she cant provide any evidence of their initial  contact such  as 
messages on the media site, as the account which was used has been deactivated. 
Its not in dispute  that Miss M received  fraudulent funds into her account. And Miss M has 
said she was aware of the activity on her account.  But Ive not seen any evidence that she 
tried to cancel the credit  or disputed  the large  amount of money which  was paid into her 
account, with Metro at the time.  And despite Miss Ms concern about being a victim of scam, 
Ive not seen any evidence that she contacted  the police.
Ref: DRN82796143When I weigh everything up, in particular what Miss M has said, I think its more  likely than 
not that Miss M gave her bank cards,  PIN numbers and online banking information to 
another person. And according to Miss Ms account  terms and conditions Miss M should 
have kept this information secure and shouldnt have shared it with another person. On that 
basis, I think its fair that Metro reported  Miss M to CIFAS for misuse of her accounts. And 
Im not going  to ask Metro to remove the marker.
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of the account  which both Metro and Miss M had to comply with, 
say that under certain circumstances it could  close Miss Ms accounts immediately. 
However, I note that Metro wrote to Miss M and gave her 7 days notice. I think  this is a 
reasonable amount of time for Miss M to make  alternative banking  arrangements.  So its 
entitled to close  the accounts as it seems its already done.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8279614