K820x#14complaint
Miss R says Bank  of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss R bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a loan. Due to the time that 
has passed, its not clear  how Miss R applied for her loan and PPI policy.  Miss R recalls she 
applied for the policy in a branch. BoS say its records indicate  it was applied for over the 
telephone
The loan was repayable over a 120-month term. The monthly loan repayment was £109.60 
with the PPI costing  an additional £11.37  making the total monthly repayment £120.97. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either  party with 30 days notice 
without penalty.  
The policy provided  cover  for Miss R for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life   
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Miss Rs monthly loan repayment  
for up to 60 months in the event  of a successful disability claim and 12 in the event of 
unemployment. It would also have cleared the outstanding balance if Miss R had died.
At the time,  Miss R was employed as a warehouse  operative. She has told us she was 
entitled to 12 months  sick pay should  she be unable to work.  Miss R also told us she had 
£5,000 savings and would  have  received  a redundancy payment if she had lost her job. Miss 
R has said she was in good health at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2004. 
Miss Rs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Rs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Miss R wouldnt  
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Rs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Miss R about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss R and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN84181492Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Rs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Rs complaint
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN84181493The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Rs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Rs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Miss R with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Miss R sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss R, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss R suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss R and 
BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Rs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss R know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN84181494Ive seen a copy  of the original application form for the loan. I can see it sets out details of 
the main loan and the monthly  repayment.
Separately the monthly  premium for the PPI is given along  with the question,  Do you want  
Personal Loan Repayments Insurance?  Beside  this are two boxes marked yes and no. I 
can see the yes box has been marked with a printed  cross  while  the no box is empty.
So I think the PPI was presented as optional.
Miss R says she was pressured  into buying the policy.  She says the advisor told her the 
policy would be good to have if I was sick. Ive thought  about  this and Ive no doubt the 
advisor recommended that Miss R take the PPI as it would provide cover for her if she was 
too unwell  to work. But that isnt the same as the advisor saying she must take it.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Miss R knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Miss R agree  that advice was provided during  this sale. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Miss R with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss R. There is no record of what  the adviser discussed in relation  to 
the policy. This is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting or telephone sale that 
took place so long ago. The adviser had some limited information about Miss Rs financial 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Miss R would  have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations  which 
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet her needs. For example, there is nothing to 
suggest BoS considered whether Miss R had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss R given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss R, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss R met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss R had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Rs ability to continue to 
meet her loan repayments would have been put under strain if she was not working 
for an extended period of time. Miss R has said she would receive sick pay for at 
least 12 months. This is an unusually generous employee benefit, but even so the 
PPI policy sold to her could have paid a benefit  for up to five years if she became 
unwell for an extended  period of time
Ref: DRN84181495-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss R.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss R. There  was 
nothing about  Miss Rs employment or occupation  which  would have made it difficult  
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Miss R sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss R was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss R was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and disability) and of the costs. I have reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Miss R would have taken out the policy  without 
any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might  be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Miss R agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss R Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Miss R. Im not persuaded BoS gave Miss R all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Rs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Rs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Rs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss R about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Rs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
Ref: DRN84181496not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss R has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
What effect did BoSs  shortcomings have on Miss  R? To what extent did Miss  R suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Miss R. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss R 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss R 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss R, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss R has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Miss R would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss R says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss R had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her loan payments in the event she was unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that product. 
But she made that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning what  she thought she 
was getting is not exactly  what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Rs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Miss R was given about the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions was not as clear as it should  have been.   
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss R knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told her the exact premium  at the point Miss 
R applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Miss R would have been told the 
cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
Ref: DRN84181497costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with BoS at the time or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss R would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Miss R would get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Miss Rs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
loan repayment) were  significantly  different to what the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss R thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions  that Miss R knew about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss R 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss R be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss R pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss R from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Rs circumstances  at the time of sale shows the policy wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss R didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss R 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss R from taking out the policy, Miss R, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
If Miss R had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
and any similar job  or any paid work which in the insurers  view she might  reasonably  be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Miss R was unable (through  disability)  to carry on her 
Ref: DRN84181498own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Miss R has also said the policy only covered her until she was aged 60. But Miss R was in 
her forties when she took the loan out and it had a ten-year term. So the PPI would have 
provided cover for the whole term of the loan.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss R would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she  was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  were  Miss R made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss R 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Rs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss R would not have bought  the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Rs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss R 
found herself in as result of the sale was the same  position she would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Miss R believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss R in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Miss R compensation, as that would put her in a 
Ref: DRN84181499better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Rs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt  
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss R in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418149