K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under her home  
insurance policy after her second home suffered damage following an escape  of water. 
Mrs W has also complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to decline her claim 
for loss of rent. Mrs W is represented in her claim and complaint by her son-in-law, Mr C, 
though in this decision I shall refer throughout to Mrs W for simplicity.
background
Mrs W owned a second home which was used  by her and also by family and friends.
In March 2018, it was discovered that an escape of water had occurred, causing damage. 
Mrs W made a claim under the policy. Ageas accepted the claim and began carrying out 
repairs.
In July 2018, Mrs W became unhappy that Ageas wouldnt include certain repairs  as part of 
the claim.  She was also unhappy  about  delays in the progress  of the claim. She complained 
to Ageas.
In August  2018,  Ageas issued its final response  to the complaint.  It agreed to extend cover  
to include most of the repairs which had been in dispute. It also acknowledged that there had 
been some  delays for which  it offered  Mrs W compensation  of £300.
Meanwhile, Mrs W made a claim to Ageas for loss of rent on the grounds that her family and 
friends would  normally  use the property and make a contribution  to its running costs but she 
hadnt received  this income due to the property being uninhabitable.  However, Ageas 
declined the claim. It said Mrs W didnt let the property commercially and so no benefit was 
payable. Mrs W complained to Ageas but it wouldnt change its position.
Mrs W continued to be dissatisfied with the way the claim was progressing. The builders 
eventually left the site in November 2018  but Mrs W felt that there was still some outstanding 
work and snagging issues  to be addressed. In December 2018, she referred her complaint 
on all issues to us.
In February 2019,  while the complaint was under investigation, Ageas agreed to settle  the 
remaining issues under  Mrs Ws claim, with the exception  of the loss of rent, with a cash 
payment of £1,901. However, there was a further delay of six weeks before this payment 
was issued.
Our investigator considered all events up to the time the cash  settlement was issued.  He 
recommended that the complaint should  be upheld in part. He was satisfied that Ageas offer 
of £300 compensation for the poor claim handling and delays until August 2018  was fair. 
However, he considered  there had been  further  delays since then which  had led to Mrs W 
eventually accepting the cash settlement even though her clear preference  had been for 
Ageas to carry out all the work. He considered that Ageas should increase its compensation 
offer by a further £150, to make a total of £450,  in recognition of the further trouble  and upset 
caused to Mrs W. In respect of the loss of rent claim,  however,  he considered it had been 
fair for Ageas to decline this.
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings.  She considered that Ageas had taken an 
inordinate amount of time to carry out the repairs. She said she had made clear at the time 
Ref: DRN80628512of taking out the policy that the home  was used  by friends and family who contributed to the 
running costs. She provided evidence that this income had been declared in her tax returns. 
She said she had been  deprived of this income  due to the insured event and that she should 
therefore be entitled to benefit  for loss of rent.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
handling of claim  / delays
An escape  of water can often take a long time to resolve. And there was an additional 
problem to be overcome  in this claim in that both Mrs W and her representative, Mr C, lived 
a long way from the insured property, meaning  that on-site meetings could not easily  be 
arranged.
Nonetheless, it does  appear that there  were  avoidable delays in Ageas handling of this 
claim. In particular, there was a significant delay between the property being declared  dry 
and repair  work starting.
There were also disputes  about the scope of work. And while  Ageas eventually  agreed to 
include everything which Mrs W had asked for, by the time the builders left the property in 
November 2018,  there  were still repair issues  which  Mrs W felt were  unresolved.  Ageas 
eventually agreed  to settle  these with a cash settlement but I consider that Mrs W would 
have preferred that they had been  dealt with properly in the first place by Ageas contractor. 
And there was then a further delay  before the settlement check  was correctly  issued.
I consider the delays  and problems would have caused some trouble and upset to Mrs W. 
While Ageas offer of £300 compensation may have been appropriate for the delays until 
August 2018,  I consider the further problems after that will have caused additional trouble 
and upset. I agree with the investigator that payment of a further  £150  is warranted to bring 
the total compensation up to £450.  
claim for loss of rent
The policy states  that cover is provided for the following:
Loss of rent due to you which you are unable to recover
Mrs W says that she allowed friends  and family to stay at the property  and that they would 
make a contribution  to running costs.  She says this was made clear to Ageas  when  she took 
out the policy. The property wasnt habitable for most of the year following the insured event 
and so she hasnt  received the income she would normally expect to receive, even though 
she has had to meet the regular costs associated  with the property such  as council tax, 
standing utility charges  and insurance. She has provided evidence  to show  that this income 
has previously been declared on her annual tax returns. On this basis,  she thinks it fair that 
Ageas should  provide cover for loss of rent.
Ref: DRN80628513I note that when she applied to take out the policy, Mrs W told Ageas that the property was 
used as a holiday  home but was not occupied by paying guests. She was then sent a 
Statement of Facts confirming these answers.  On receiving the Statement of Facts, Mrs W 
emailed Ageas with clarification of certain points, including  the following:
[The property] is a second home to me and is also used by members of my family and close  
friends. It is not run as a commercial concern but those  who use it make a contribution 
towards running costs.  I understand that the policy provides cover  against any liability  that 
I might  have  for personal  injury to them or any third party  or damage to third party  property.
Ageas confirmed it was happy to accept the risk on that basis.
It is true that Mrs W mentioned she received a payment from those who used  the property. 
However, Mrs W also stressed that the property was not commercially let and I think  the 
purpose of her clarification was less about seeking to ensure  she was covered for the loss of 
rent and more  about ensuring  she had cover against  any liability  for a loss suffered by 
someone staying at the property. 
Mrs W has provided evidence to show that in three of the five years immediately preceding  
the insured event, she declared the income she received  on her tax return.  She says it was 
also declared in the other two years though she doesnt have the evidence  to hand. I note 
that the total income on each year that it has been declared (which  is in the range of £2,000 
to £3,000),  is less than the recorded figure  for the cost of providing  the service  to the 
tenants, which confirms  that the property wasnt run as a commercial let.
I understand why Mrs W feels she should be paid for loss of rent. However,  I consider  the 
evidence indicates  that while she derived some income from the property, this was on a very 
informal basis and the property wasnt commercially  let. There were  no rental agreements or 
contracts. Ageas says it did not underwrite this policy as a commercial  policy  and I can 
understand why not. While her family  and close friends were unfortunately unable  to avail 
themselves of her property while the repairs were ongoing, on balance  I dont consider that 
Mrs W can reasonably  say she has suffered a loss of rent to which  she was due. I therefore 
consider it was fair for Ageas to decline  this element  of the claim.
I have nonetheless considered whether Mrs W should be entitled to additional compensation 
for the financial loss she may have suffered as a result of Ageas delays. However, while 
I think that the repair work should have been completed a lot sooner than November 2018, 
I cant necessarily  say that it should  have been completed before the end of August 2018. 
I would imagine that Mrs Ws property would be most popular with her friends and family 
during the summer. With this in mind, I cant reasonably conclude  that it is Ageas fault that 
she has apparently  suffered a loss of income.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W a further £150  compensation to make a total 
of £450 compensation.
Ref: DRN80628514Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
Mrs W, to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8062851