K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that his scratch and dent and alloy wheel and tyre insurance policies 
underwritten by Great Lakes Insurance SE were not renewed.
background
In October  2017 Mr H bought a new car and he took out these  policies underwritten  by Great 
Lakes. He is unhappy that they werent renewed  and says he cant  now take out similar 
policies with other providers given that his car isnt new enough. He says the policies said 
they would  continue until he cancelled them, his car reached 13 years  old or he made ten 
claims. He wants the policies reinstated or payment for the policy value that would be 
applicable from a claim.
Great Lakes said in its final response that the policy terms and conditions said that it 
reserved the right to vary or amend  the terms and conditions or cancel the policy  in the 
review period every year. And it also reserved the right to cancel the cover  for a valid reason 
by giving 14 days written  notice. Mr H paid his premiums every month by direct debit. Great 
Lakes had taken  the decision that it wouldnt continue  to offer these  policies and gave Mr H 
40 days notice of its intention to cancel them. Thats sufficient notice under the policy  terms 
and conditions. And it stopped collecting the monthly direct debits. This decision  cannot be 
changed.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
The terms of the policy  say it can be cancelled at any time on 14 days  notice  in 
writing. Mr H was sent two letters on 18 September 2018  telling him the policy  would 
no longer be offered  and he was given 40 days notice that the policy would be 
cancelled on 26 October 2018.  
Great Lakes is entitled to decide  what policies it wants to offer.  It provided sufficient 
notification to Mr H that his policy would be cancelled and more notice than is 
required in the policy terms.  
Its not reasonable to hold Great Lakes responsible for the fact Mr H doesnt meet the 
policy terms of other  insurance providers.  Great  Lakes shouldnt  have  to do any 
more.
Mr H doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  He says while his broker  no 
longer offers  these polices Great Lakes does.  The reason  for the cancellation isnt listed  in 
the reasons for cancellation in the policy wording. Great Lakes has acted unethically  and 
unacceptably. His car has been rendered uninsurable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of the Alloy and Tyre insurance say clearly that Great  Lakes reserves  the right to 
cancel the policy during  the annual review period.  They  also say it can cancel the policy for 
valid reasons by giving 14 days notice in writing. Some valid reasons are listed.  But its 
clearly said that valid reasons include,  but are not limited to those listed.  
Ref: DRN83691882In this case I understand Mr Hs frustration  at what has happened.  But Great Lakes is 
entitled to decide what policies it offers to the customers  introduced by a particular broker  as 
its done here. Thats a matter of it exercising its legitimate commercial judgement  in which  
we wouldnt normally interfere. And although  not specifically listed in the policy  wordings I 
think this decision amounts to a valid one. Consequently when Great Lakes gave Mr H 40 
days notice of its decision it was providing  more notice than it was obliged to give under the 
terms and conditions. 
Overall I think  Great  Lakes has acted  reasonably  and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions when cancelling these policies. 
Mr H paid for the policies  by monthly  direct debits and these  have been  stopped.  So Mr H 
hasnt paid for any cover that he hasnt received. And its not therefore  appropriate  for any 
refund of premium to be given.
Its unfortunate if Mr H cannot now meet other providers underwriting  criteria and obtain 
similar or alternative cover elsewhere. But thats not Great  Lakes fault.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Mr Hs strength of feeling, I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably ask Great Lakes to do anything  more, including reinstating  the 
policies, or to pay Mr H any compensation as he would like. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8369188