K820x#14complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  wont  pay the proceeds  from 
her endowment policy, to her chosen  account.  
background
Mrs B had an endowment  savings  plan with Aviva, which matured in December 2018. Upon 
maturity, she completed a payment release form detailing where she wanted  Aviva to pay 
the funds. 
However, Aviva said they were unable to release the funds as they required a second piece 
of identification  from Mrs B. Although Aviva subsequently received that, the account Mrs B 
designated for the funds to be paid into, was an account that she held in trust, for the benefit 
of her son.
Aviva refused to pay the maturity value to this account. They said that anti-money laundering 
regulations and their commercial procedures state  that proceeds from the policy must be 
paid to the policy holder. They also said that the payment release form made it clear that the 
account must be in the name  of the policy holder. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. He was not persuaded that the complaint should  
be upheld. He took into account current regulations and that notice  had been  given  in the 
form, that the proceeds could only be paid to Mrs B. So, he felt Aviva had acted correctly  
and fairly.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view. Stating that the account is actually her account 
and that her son does  not have access to the funds in it. Mrs B asked for the complaint  to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to clarify at this stage that whilst we have received Mrs Bs authority to 
investigate this complaint,  most of the communications  regarding it have come from Mr B, 
whom she has authorised to be her representative.
This is a complaint  about Avivas  decision  not to pay the proceeds of Mrs Bs matured 
endowment savings plan, to her chosen  account.  Whilst  I appreciate  the frustration that this 
has been going on since October 2018, and that Mrs B hasnt been  able to support her son 
as intended with the benefit of this money, I agree with the adjudicator that this complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain  why. 
Aviva have made a commercial decision to only pay the proceeds from a policy,  to an 
account in the name of the policy holder.  They say that this is to take account of regulatory 
requirements to take measures to prevent fraud  and money laundering. 
Ref: DRN83986972Aviva are able to make a commercial decision as to whether they only pay proceeds to the 
policy holder. Provided  they do so fairly and in line with the terms and conditions  of the 
account. I think the decision they have  made  is a fair and legitimate one, to attempt to follow  
anti-money laundering regulations. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that Mrs B was advised that she would  be able to pay the 
proceeds to a third party or into a trust account.  The payment release form which was 
provided prior to maturity, does specify that if you are the policyholder,  the account must be 
your own  and Aviva  can't  pay a third party unless this is a financial services company or 
legal personal  representative.
Mr B replied  to the findings of our investigator to say that the specified account  is in the 
name of Mrs B and only designated for the intention to be of the benefit of their son. 
However, from the evidence that I have seen, I am not persuaded that this is the case. 
Mrs B has said on at least two occasions to us that the account in question is a trust account 
for her son and that Mr and Mrs B are trustees of the account. This correlates with a certified 
statement for the account which we have seen, which  states that the policy  holder is 
trustees for Mr XX. I am therefore satisfied that the beneficiary of the account who has any 
entitlement to it, is Mrs Bs son. 
In summary,  I am persuaded  that this isnt an account in Mrs Bs name. I believe Aviva have 
made a fair and legitimate  commercial decision and have applied  it fairly. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2020.
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8398697