K822xcomplaint
Miss B is complaining that Premier Insurance Consultants Limited (PICL) didnt refund the 
full amount she paid to take out a car insurance  policy after she cancelled it a few days after 
she took it out. 
background 
Miss B applied for a car insurance policy online and she took out a policy through PICL  a 
broker. After she paid,  Miss B says she received a web page saying her cover wouldnt be 
validated until she rang a number and no pre-authorisation had been done on the credit 
card. She says she assumed  that she wasnt therefore covered and decided  to go on her 
fathers insurance instead. 
Miss B says that she then got emails confirming that she had to call PICL to validate my 
insurance. Miss B then called PICL and said that she didn't want to continue  with the policy. 
PICL explained that she had to cancel  the policy in writing. So Miss B sent an email 
confirming she didnt  want the policy any longer.
Miss B then received a refund, which was £98 less than what  she paid. She complained to 
PICL who said that there was a £60 administrative charge and £28 fee for time on cover. But 
it accepted it owed a further  £10, which it refunded.
 
Miss B complained to PICL. She says that, because  she didnt validate the policy, it never  
started. So she doesnt think it should be entitled to charge anything. But she also said that 
she had a statutory  right to cancel the policy within the first 14 days. 
PICL said that the policy started when  she applied for it. But it said it was standard  practice  
to validate the information  that Miss B provided.  It said the cancellation charges were clearly 
set out and it said it was entitled to charge these when she cancelled the policy.
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He thought PICL could have been clearer  
about what it wanted to speak to Miss B about. And he thought the amount  it had charge for 
the time insured was unfair. But he thought  it was fair for PICL to charge the administrative 
fee to reflect  the costs  incurred in setting up the policy and subsequently cancelling  it. So he 
recommended PICL  pay £50 in compensation.
PICL said it would agree to pay £50 to resolve this matter,  but it maintained that it didnt think  
it had acted unfairly. Miss B didnt accept  the investigators findings. She said that the 
investigator hadnt commented on the fact that she had a legal right to cancel within the first 
14 days.
So the complaints  been passed  to me to decide. Since then,  Ive discussed this matter  
further with PICL as I said that I intended to uphold this complaint further. I said my 
fundamental concern on this complaint was that PICL emailed Miss B when  she first bought  
the policy and said Please call us on 0208 550 0202 regarding your insurance policy bought  
online. We need to validate all policy details  before  we can confirm cover and issue  any 
documents. 
I set out that Miss B said that she understood from this that the policy hadnt started, so 
decided to insure herself on her fathers  policy  instead. I didnt think  there was anything here 
to show that the policy  had started  and I said I couldnt say that Miss B interpretation of this 
Ref: DRN89309882was unfair.  So I didnt think it was unreasonable she assumed she needed to make other 
arrangements to take out insurance  and ultimately  did so. I thought PICL  should  have  
explained that the policy had started  and she was now insured to drive the car, but it needed 
to check the information it provided. 
I said that it was clear that PICL didnt send Miss B any policy  terms, so I didnt think  she 
wasnt aware that the policy  had started. And I also thought that she wouldnt have been 
aware of the cancellation charges to end it. I think Miss B had unfairly lost out as a result of 
this. So I thought it was unfair that shes incurred the charges  she did. Given  this, I said 
intended to say that PICL should refund the £88 fee she incurred plus 8% simple interest 
from when the original refund was issued until she gets it back.
PICL didnt agree with me. And it said that it was entitled to charge the cancellation fee to 
cover its costs. It said cover was originally confirmed  online and it advised Miss B that cover 
was in place as per the details advised. It said it was standard  procedure with all policies 
taken out online it then would attempt to contact the policyholder to verify the details 
provided and to ensure the correct  cover was in place.  It said it tried calling and also sent 
text messages attempting to contact Miss B. But it said couldnt get through  to her. So it sent 
the standard email template that I referred to.
It said, after taking the policy  out Miss B then changed her mind and decided  to cancel the 
policy. So it said the standard cancellation  charges applied to cover  some of the costs  
involved from the aggregator sites and for the work  it did on the policy. It maintained that the 
cancellation charges were  fair and were  explained  to Miss B before she input any payment 
details. So it maintains that it was entitled to apply the charges when Miss B wanted to 
cancel the insurance.  It said that Miss B couldnt  take the policy  out online unless she 
agreed to the terms and conditions that were  provided online. So it said she was clearly 
aware of the fees before taking the policy  out.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain  why. 
Ive taken all of PICLs comments into account  and I dont dispute the policy was set up. But 
the issue I have  to decide is whether Miss B would  have  realised  this. I can understand why 
PICL would want to verify the information  provided. And I dont think  its unreasonable that it 
did. But I think it should have been clearer with its communication. 
Ive thought carefully about all the correspondence that PICL  sent and I ultimately can 
understand why Miss B thought that she wasnt insured. All correspondence it sent said that 
it couldnt confirm  cover until it could speak to her. I think a reasonable inference from this is 
that she wasnt insured.  So I cant say that its unreasonable she took steps  to arrange for 
separate insurance. And I think this is a direct result of PICL  not being clear  enough  in its 
communication.
So, while I do note PICLs  comments,  I remain of the opinion  that its unfair that Miss B loses  
out as a result of whats happened. So I still think it should refund the £88 Miss B paid plus 
8% simple  interest per year from when the original refund was issued until she gets it back.  If 
it thinks its required to deduct tax from this interest,  it should give Miss B a certificate  
Ref: DRN89309883showing how much  tax its taken  off. But I dont think it should  be required to pay her 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Premier Insurance Consultants Limited  (t/a Nova Insurance)  to refund the £88 
Miss B paid plus 8% simple interest per year from when the original refund was issued until 
she gets it back.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8930988