K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) voided his motor insurance policy,  that is 
cancelled it and treated it as of no effect  from the date of inception.
background
In December 2017, Mr S took out a motor insurance policy  online with Zenith  for his classic 
motor car. When applying for the policy he said the value  of his car was £1,700, and it was 
kept on his drive. This information was repeated in the Statement  of Fact sent to him when  
the policy was issued.
In June 2018, Mr Ss house was burgled during  the daytime. His car keys were  taken  and 
used to drive away the car, which was parked on his drive. Mr S notified Zenith and claimed 
on his policy.
When Zenith investigated the claim,  it found that the value of the car was more  than £1,700. 
Mr S said the figure he had intended to include was £17,000,  and he had made  a mistake 
when applying for the policy.
Zenith said that if the correct figure  had been included in the application, it wouldnt have 
issued the policy.  A car of this value would have to have been garaged overnight. As Mr S 
said in his application it was parked on his drive,  the policy wouldnt have been issued.
Mr S said that in fact he did garage the car overnight in the garage  of a friend who lived 
nearby. He produced a letter from the friend  confirming this arrangement. He said he had 
brought the car round  to his house  earlier that day intending to clean it when he got home 
from work.  But when he arrived  home,  he found the house burgled and the car gone.
Zenith said the mistakes  Mr S had made when applying for the policy  amounted to careless 
misrepresentation. So it voided the policy as it said it was entitled  to do under  the Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations Act 2012 (CIDRA). It refunded  the premium    
Mr S had paid, less its charges. 
Mr S complained to us. He said the car had been recovered and he didnt propose making a 
claim under the policy. However he was unhappy  with the voidance of his policy,  which 
would remain on his insurance record and increase what he had to pay for motor insurance  
in the future.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that CIDRA 
provided in the case of careless misrepresentation that:
If the insurer would not have entered into the consumer insurance contract on any terms, 
the insurer may avoid  the contract and refuse  all claims, but must  return the premiums paid.
From the information Zenith had supplied, the investigator thought  that if Mr S had provided 
the correct information, Zenith would have offered Mr S insurance, albeit subject to the 
condition that the car was garaged overnight. In fact, the car was stolen during the day, so 
he thought it unfair to consider this as part of the decision  to void the policy.
Ref: DRN85495202To put things right, he recommended  that Zenith  remove  any record  of the voidance and 
effectively reinstate the policy  from inception up to the date immediately before the theft. The 
policy should be considered cancelled on that date at Mr Ss request.
Zenith had refunded Mr Ss premium, less its administration costs. However he thought  it 
was fair that Mr S should pay Zenith a proportion of the premium  he had paid based on the 
time on cover up to the day before the theft.
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendation. Zenith responded to say, in summary, 
that if the value  of the car had been disclosed correctly, with the car being  described as kept 
on Mr Ss drive, it wouldnt  have offered a policy. The misrepresentation by Mr S was 
careless.
Zenith thought  it was more likely than not that the car was being kept on Mr Ss driveway 
and not in a garage.  So it considered it had acted  correctly under CIDRA by voiding the 
policy, refusing all claims, and returning the premium.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has confirmed  that at the time he applied for the policy,  and during  the policy, he 
garaged the car in the garage of a friend  who lived nearby.  He has supplied  photos of the 
car in this garage. The friend has supplied a letter which confirms this arrangement.
In these circumstances it isnt clear why when he applied for the policy  Mr S said the car was 
kept on his drive. Mr S can only say it was a second careless mistake.
While I understand why Zenith doubts  that the car was being  garaged  by Mr S as he says,  
on balance I accept, on the evidence Mr S has provided, that at the time Mr S applied for the 
policy, and during the policy, the car was being  garaged overnight at his friends garage.
As well as the provision  Ive mentioned  above,  CIDRA also contains  the following provisions:
If the insurer would have  entered  into the consumer insurance  contract, but on different 
terms (excluding terms relating to the premium), the contract is to be treated as if it had been 
entered into on those  different terms if the insurer so requires.
In addition, if the insurer would have entered into the consumer  insurance  contract  (whether 
the terms relating  to matters other than the premium  would have been the same or different), 
but would  have charged a higher premium, the insurer may reduce proportionately the 
amount to be paid on a [present or future] claim.
CIDRA then provides that before exercising such rights, the insurer must give notice to the 
consumer, and the consumer has the right to cancel  the policy.
Zenith has confirmed that if the correct value had been shown in the application, but with the 
car shown  as being kept on Mr Ss drive,  the application would have  been  refused. But it 
would have been willing to insure  the car subject to a condition  that the car was kept 
garaged overnight, and at an increased premium. 
Ref: DRN85495203So I dont  think the condition in CIDRA  that allows Zenith to void the policy  that it wouldnt 
have entered  into the insurance contract  on any terms   is satisfied.
The car was stolen from Mr Ss drive  during the day. So if this overnight garaging  condition  
had been included in the insurance contract  it wouldnt  have been breached.  In these 
circumstances, like the investigator, I dont think it was reasonable, or in accordance  with 
CIDRA, for Zenith to void Mr Ss policy  on 24 September 2018.
Instead, I think Zenith should  have written to Mr S on 24 September  2018 telling him it 
wanted to change the terms of the policy and/or reduce proportionately the amount  to be 
paid on any future claim. If it had done so, I think its likely that Mr S would have opted  to 
cancel the policy at that point.
I think the remedies  proposed  by the investigator are fair and reasonable, but with the policy 
being reinstated up to 24 September 2018 rather than the date immediately before the theft,  
as set out more  fully below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Subject to Mr S paying Zenith the proportion  of 
the premium he had paid based  on the time on cover up to 24 September  2018, I order  
Zenith Insurance plc to remove any record of the voidance and effectively reinstate the 
policy from inception up to 24 September 2018, with the policy being considered cancelled 
on that date at Mr Ss request.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8549520