K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a number  of packaged accounts. 
background
Mrs G has the following account history with Lloyds:
November 1985  opened  as a fee-free account.
November 1995  upgraded to a Gold  account.
July 2003   upgraded to a Platinum account.
November 2009  upgraded to a Premier  account
November 2018  downgraded to a fee-free account.
In response to Mrs Gs complaint, Lloyds upheld the sale of the Gold and Platinum accounts. 
It provided her with a full refund  of the Gold and Platinum account fees, minus any benefits 
she received as a result  of having  the packaged accounts. But it didnt agree  that the 
Premier account complaint was raised  within the correct time limits. Mrs G disagreed
with the refund she received and felt the Premier account should also be investigated, so
brought the complaint to us.
We looked at the Premier account complaint and thought Mrs G had brought it in time. After
explaining this to Lloyds, it agreed. But it felt Mrs G had chosen  to take out the Premier
account because  of the exclusive benefits it offered, so it didnt agree that it had been      
mis-sold. After looking at the information on file, our adjudicator also felt the Premier  account 
wasnt mis-sold,  and she felt the refund already  given to Mrs G was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mrs G disagreed. She said the Premier  account  had been  upgraded automatically without
her knowledge  and consent  and that she had no need for the benefits on the account.  The 
case was passed  to me and I wrote a provisional  decision in which  I explained, based  on 
what Id seen so far, I didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  My provisional decision 
read as follows:
Mrs G says Lloyds automatically upgraded her account to a Premier  account without her 
knowledge or consent. Lloyds has provided an application form for the Premier account  that 
was signed by Mrs G on 26 November 2009, which is the same day the account was 
upgraded. Ive included  a copy  of this with the provisional decision. In this, Mrs G answered
several questions  using tick boxes. In addition to this, there was a contact note completed by
Lloyds on the same day. This shows Mrs G came into branch to discuss  a delayed payment
to her account and make  sure no charges were applied. During this conversation, a meeting
was set up a for a full account review  and the account was upgraded to the Premier  account
for the travel insurance, breakdown cover, mobile  phone insurance and home emergency.
As well as the overdraft  benefits.
 
Ive considered what Mrs G has said, and the evidence Lloyds has provided. On balance,
I think its more likely Mrs G had a conversation in branch about her account, that led to a
discussion about the Premier account  and its benefits. And the signed application form
indicates that Mrs G chose to take out the Premier account and consented to it. Mrs G had
previously held a fee-free account  with Lloyds, as well as other packaged accounts, so I
think she was aware  she could choose a different account if she wanted to.
Ref: DRN86476282Mrs G says that because she doesnt believe a discussion  happened  at the point of sale, she
doesnt think Lloyds  recommended  the account  to her. Lloyds has said it did and has pointed
to the contact note written  on the day of the sale that highlights  the account  was sold to    
Mrs G for specific benefits she would find useful. As I think its more likely  there  was a 
discussion at the time of the sale, I think its more likely the account was recommended.  This 
means Lloyds had to make sure the account  was suitable for Mrs G when it sold it to her.
Mrs G already had a Platinum account, so Ive considered  whether  the exclusive benefits of
the Premier account  were right for her. These included  increased breakdown cover, the
ability to register two handsets under the mobile phone insurance,  home  emergency  cover
and a reduction of the debit interest rate on her overdraft from 12.28%  to 10.4%. The level of
cover on the travel insurance largely stayed  the same.
Ive considered Mrs Gs personal circumstances  at the time. From what I can see, she
owned a car, a mobile phone and a home.  So, I can see no reason why she couldnt  have
benefitted from the increased  breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance and home
emergency cover.
I appreciate Mrs G has said that she could rely on her husbands cover  instead of the
policies provided  by the Premier account.  But that doesnt mean the recommendation was
unsuitable for her. It was up to Mrs G if she wanted to rely on the cover or not. Which  I can
see she did after a few years of having the account. She went on to use the breakdown
cover seven times since 2013, register two handsets at a time under the mobile phone
insurance in 2014 which  was an exclusive  benefit  to the Premier account. And she also
made a claim on the mobile phone insurance  in 2014.
I think the main benefit that Mrs G had a need  for was the reduced debit interest rate on her
overdraft. The note from the time of the sale specifically says Mrs G would save 2.1% on
debit interest, which is the exact  difference between the debit interest rate on the Platinum
and Premier accounts. In the three months before the upgrade  to the Premier account,
Mrs G was charged the following debit interest  on her overdraft:
£61.58
£57.03
£56.05
And in the three months following the upgrade, she was charged:
£48.09
£46.25
£42.31
This gave  Mrs G an average saving of £13 per month. So, even with the increased monthly
account fee from £17 to £25, Mrs G was still making a saving each month on average as a
result of the overdraft benefits available to her on the Premier account. Having carefully
considered all the information, I think  its more  likely  the recommendation for the Premier
account was reasonable  in the circumstances.
Lloyds also had to give Mrs G enough  information so she could make sure she could make
sure the account  was right for her. Looking  at the contact note from the time of the sale,  I
think its more likely  the main benefits  were  discussed. And I also think its more likely the
Lloyds representative  told Mrs G about the benefits to make  the account  sound more
Ref: DRN86476283attractive to her. As mentioned above,  Mrs G was able to use several the benefits available
on the account and was aware of the process  to make a claim.  So, I think  its more likely she
was given some information about how the benefits  worked. And while its possible she
wasnt told everything about the account,  I dont think better information wouldve made her
change her mind about converting the account.
Having carefully considered all of the information currently available  to me, Im not minded to
uphold the complaint. Because  I think its more likely that Mrs G chose to take out the
Premier account, after having a reasonable idea of what  it entailed.
Redress for the Gold  and Platinum accounts
Mrs G has also raised  a concern that the redress Lloyds paid her for the Gold and Platinum
packaged accounts was incorrect. And she is unhappy that Lloyds paid the amount directly
into her current  account without her formally agreeing to it first.
Having looked  at the offer set out by Lloyds  in its final response letter dated 9 November
2018, Im satisfied the redress it paid in relation to the Gold and Platinum accounts is
correct. Lloyds is entitled to deduct any financial benefit that Mrs G received as a result of
having the packaged bank accounts. Which it did when it deducted  the overdraft savings
Mrs G received due to the debit interest  benefits.  This means  that Mrs G has been  put back
into the position she would have been in, had she never taken  out the packaged accounts in
the first place.
I do appreciate Mrs Gs comments about  the redress being paid into her account without her
prior agreement. But I dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably in doing so. It provided its
final answer as to what it felt was correct, and gave Mrs G the option of coming to our
service for a second  opinion. Which is what shes done.
Having considered the redress paid by Lloyds, I think  it has been calculated  correctly and I
dont plan to instruct  it to do anything further.
Neither Lloyds nor Mrs G responded with any additional comments or evidence for me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have not been provided  with any new evidence to consider,  I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional  decision. So, for the reasons outlined  above, I 
dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Premier  account,  and I think it has appropriately 
compensated Mrs G for the Gold and Platinum accounts. 
Ref: DRN86476284my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8647628