K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 10 payday  loans  Uncle Buck  provided  to Mr B between May 2015  
and March 2018. Mr Bs lending  history  with Uncle Buck was as follows:
An adjudicator upheld Mr Bs complaint and thought loan 4 onwards shouldnt  have been 
given as Mr B had become reliant on short term lending and Uncle Buck  shouldve  realised  
this. Uncle  Buck disagreed with this saying  it carried out checks and Mr Bs borrowing history  
with it wasnt a concern.  Uncle Buck did however make an offer to refund interest and 
charges on loans 4,8 and 9. Mr B did not accept this offer,  so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
Whilst Mr Bs case was awaiting an ombudsmans  review it was assessed  again by a 
different adjudicator. This adjudicator explained  to Uncle Buck that loans 1-10 shouldnt have 
been given to Mr B as the information  it had showed he was having financial difficulties. 
Uncle Buck  didnt agree to this revised  opinion so the complaint assed to me  an 
ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult
to meet  a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
he greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of
time during which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN88535432There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on 
time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to 
meet the repayments. And it follows  that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  ably if
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. 
The most recent adjudicator to review  the case explained that had Uncle Buck  considered 
the information it had gathered about  Mr B it would have been  Mr B was having problems 
managing his money. I agree with this and Ill explain  why.
Uncle Buck  says it carried out checks on Mr B when he applied for all of his loans. This 
included verifying  his income and expenditure and carrying  out a credit check. Uncle  Buck 
says that it reviewed this information and it didnt reveal anything of concern. It says he had 
adequate disposable income  to afford the monthly repayments. However, I think  if Uncle  
Buck had reacted effectively to the information it had gathered  it wouldve seen that Mr Bs 
financial situation was poor. 
Mr B declared his monthly  income and expenditure, but the key information Uncle  Buck 
shouldve considered was within the credit checks it carried out. This check reveals that 
when Mr B applied  for his first loan with Uncle  Buck he had significant  borrowing  
commitments on fixed term accounts   totalling £1,662 and he also had made  payments of 
£812 in the previous month to other short  term loans. Mr B also had five active short-term 
loans with an outstanding balance of £2,707.  Uncle Buck  says it cant  be expected  to go 
through credit check results at this stage  of the lending relationship  in full. However, given 
this information  had been gathered I think it needed  to be properly  considered and its 
reasonable to expect  Uncle Buck to have gained a more accurate idea of Mr Bs financial 
situation. 
Throughout its lending  relationship with Mr B there was adequate information available to 
Uncle Buck  for it to see Mr B was not in a position to sustainably  repay further  borrowing. 
Mr B was using credit  from other short-term lenders and by loan 4 he still had borrowing  with 
lenders of just under  £2,000. Mr Bs situation  had not substantially  improved in the interim 5 
months and his behaviour indicates a reliance on short term loans to manage  his finances 
and monthly shortfalls.  
Loan 6 was applied for some time after loan 5  around five months later,  but in this period 
Mr Bs financial situation  had continued to decline.  Mr Bs monthly commitments to short  
term loans and fixed accounts had remained high. But most significantly two defaults had 
Ref: DRN88535433been applied  to his account,  showing he was having problems meeting his repayment  
commitments. And Mr Bs circumstances, up until loan 10 showed  no sign of improving. 
If Uncle Buck had reacted effectively to the information it had about Mr B from the outset it 
couldve seen he had obvious problems with his finances.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 1 to 10 and Uncle Buck  should  put things right.
how to put things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
Mr B shouldnt have been  given  loans  1 to 10.
A.) Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made by Mr S towards
interest, fees and charges on these loans  (including payments made to a third party  if the 
debts were sold).
B.) Uncle Buck should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Mr B which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date he originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.) Uncle Buck should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D.) Uncle Buck should remove  any adverse  information it has recorded on his
credit file in relation to the upheld  loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr B a certificate
showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Bs complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP
should pay put things right for Mr B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman ask Mr B to accept  or reject my decision
before 14 March 2020.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8853543