K822xcomplaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs L and her late husband 
took out on the advice of Ecclesiastical Financial  Advisory Services  Limited  (EFAS) in 1999. 
The complaint is that the mortgage  was mis-sold.  Mrs L is represented here by her son, 
Mr L, who has power of attorney. 
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in my own words, and in rather less detail than 
theyve been presented.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal  
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published
In 1999, Mrs L and her late husband took out a lifetime mortgage  of £26,000, on advice from 
EFAS. The terms of the mortgage, called a capital access plan,  provide  that no monthly  
repayments are required. The mortgage  is only due to be repaid if the borrower sells the 
property voluntarily, goes  into full-time nursing care or after the death  of the last surviving 
borrower. Interest  is rolled up into the outstanding  balance, and is compounded. This means 
that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a significant balance  to be repaid.
Mr L says he found  out about the lifetime  mortgage  for the first time after his father died and 
his mother granted  him power of attorney, and complained that it had been mis-sold. The 
reason given is that the compound interest  is charged not on the amount of the loan, but on 
the value of the property, which was £130,000 at the start of the contract. Mr L thinks this is 
unfair.
EFAS rejected the complaint, prompting  Mr L to refer it to us. For the most part, our 
investigator didnt  think  EFAS had recommended the wrong mortgage. She explained that 
there were two options available at the time;  a mortgage where interest  was charged on the 
debt, and a mortgage where interest was charged  on the property value.  The rate charged 
on the latter was much lower, however. 
The investigator wasnt able to establish that EFAS had actually told Mrs L and her husband 
about the two options, so that they could make  a choice. But a comparison calculation 
showed that by 2019,  the total amount of interest accrued on the mortgage Mrs L holds is 
only about £2,000 more  than it would have been  if she and her husband had taken the 
alternative of a higher rate charged only on the debt. The calculation also projected that if 
Mrs L continues to hold the mortgage  for another two years,  the two totals will equalise and 
thereafter the mortgage Mrs L has will become cheaper overall. 
In that context, the investigator wasnt persuaded Mrs L has been disadvantaged by the 
omission, but she recommended EFAS pay Mrs L £300 compensation for her time, trouble 
and upset. EFAS agreed to do this, but Mr L has asked that the complaint be reviewed an 
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN85686702my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. Im aware Mr L has very strong  views about the nature of the product at 
the heart of his mothers complaint, but I have no regulatory function. All I can decide here is 
whether EFAS recommended a mortgage  that was unsuitable for Mrs L and her late 
husband, based on their needs and circumstances in 1999 . 
Under our rules,  Mrs L is a consumer, and so meets the definition  of an eligible 
complainant set out in our rules. The rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of 
an eligible complainant by a person authorised by the eligible complainant  or authorised  by 
law. In this respect,  Mr L is bringing the complaint on his mothers  behalf.
But I must explain that, although  Mr L is representing his mother, it is Mrs L who was EFASs 
customer at the time of the events complained about. Mr Ls role is to bring Mrs Ls 
complaint on her behalf, in the same  way that other  consumers might  instruct a relative,  
solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Mr L to air 
his own grievances  about EFAS  because he is not its customer; his role is limited to putting 
forward Mrs Ls complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence  that Mr L has expressed his own concerns about 
what he perceives to be EFASs failings  and I do not doubt his strength of feeling about 
this. But because Mr L is not EFASs customer, this final decision is limited to consideration 
of Mrs Ls complaint about  EFAS.
Mrs L hadnt complained about the mortgage previously, and it seems that it was only when 
Mr L looked closer at his mothers financial affairs after she gave  him power  of attorney that 
a complaint was raised with EFAS. So in this final decision I have looked at the sale of the 
mortgage. Without a specific complaint from Mrs L about it, I have considered generally 
whether EFAS did anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. I reiterate that its 
EFASs actions Im considering here,  not those of the lender. Mr L has made  a separate 
complaint about  the lender.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
It seems  Mrs L and her late husband had particular financial  objectives. Its possible they 
had some savings, but even if they had, its not unusual for people often to prefer  to borrow  
rather than dip into savings or liquidate other assets.  So it seems to me that a mortgage of 
some sort or another wasnt  necessarily unsuitable  or inappropriate.  Mr L says he could  
Ref: DRN85686703have financed their plans if need be, but that was a conversation for him and his parents to 
have; it wasnt something  EFAS had to suggest.
Ive next considered whether something other than a lifetime mortgage  would  have been  a 
better option. Mr L thinks an orthodox mortgage  on interest-only terms would have been  
more appropriate.  Mrs L and her late husband  were both past their respective State Pension 
ages. So its unlikely that they would  have been accepted for a traditional mortgage,  given  
their circumstances. This, combined  with my earlier finding that Mrs L and her late husband 
had apparently decided some  borrowing  was necessary, meant  that equity release was 
probably the most viable  option  for them. All that was left to decide was which  of the two 
interest-charging alternatives would best suit Mrs L and her late husband.
As I said earlier,  it doesnt look like EFAS actually presented Mrs L and her late husband  
with the two alternatives, or made  a recommendation on which  was better, so that they could 
make an informed choice.  What that leaves for me to decide,  based on the situation as it 
stands now, is whether Mrs L has been disadvantaged by that omission.
Ive no way of knowing  (or surmising) if, had they been presented  with the choice,  Mrs L and 
her late husband  would have picked the mortgage  that only charged interest  on the debt, 
albeit at a much a higher rate. But even if they had, Id still be slow to find that Mrs L has 
suffered detriment because that didnt happen. I agree that, at the time of writing,  her 
accrued balance outstanding is higher (by about £2,000) that it would otherwise have been. 
But Mrs L isnt currently required to pay that money; so no loss has actually  crystallised thus 
far and theres  a reasonable possibility that it may never do so. 
To the extent that Im not persuaded Mrs L has been materially  disadvantaged by 
shortcomings in how EFAS sold this mortgage,  the proposal from the investigator  that EFAS  
should pay Mrs L £300 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only;  in full and final settlement, I 
direct Ecclesiastical  Financial Advisory Services Limited to pay Mrs L £300. I make no other  
order or award. My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further  discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L (or Mr L on 
her behalf)  to accept  or reject my decision before 20 June  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8568670