K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained about the way U K Insurance Limited, trading  as Direct Line Insurance  
(UKI) raised the premium amount on his pet policy after one of his cats died.
background 
Mr D insured both his cats with UKI and availed of a multi-pet discount in doing so. One of 
his cats died just before the renewal  date.
Initially Mr D paid £84 per month for both cats. At the renewal date, that rose to £96 for both 
cats. With the adjustment and the loss of the multi-pet discount, UKI said Mr D now had to 
pay £59 per month for his remaining cat which Mr D thought was unfair.  He thought  he 
should have to pay only £48 per month.
Mr D said UKI didnt  explain  this to him, simply took the £59 from his bank account. So he 
complained. UKI didnt  think it had done  anything wrong. Mr D didnt agree and brought  his 
complaint to us. 
The adjudicator ultimately said the premium level was correct.  Mr D disagreed, so his 
complaint was passed to me decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 12 March 2019 and said the following:
Our role is to see if a business, UKI here,  did anything wrong and if it did, did it 
manage to put things  right. Were not the regulator  and we have no ability to fine or 
punish businesses  either.
When Mr D first took out his policy for both of his cats, he received a multi-pet 
discount. That meant the cost of insuring both cats together was discounted. It 
follows therefore that since one cat sadly died,  Mr D would no longer be able to avail 
of any multi-pet discount since obviously he was only insuring one cat going forward. 
But I think UKI could have made this much clearer to Mr D at the time. However, 
having said that, I dont think UKI did anything wrong in removing that discount. That 
means I dont consider  its premium amount for insuring just one cat is higher than it 
ought to have been.
Its unfortunate that the death  of his cat was so close to the renewal date, which  was 
12 April each year. It sent out the renewal  to Mr D for both cats on 12 March 2018. 
Mr D then informed it of the death of one of his cats by his letter  dated  25 March  
2018.  
UKI then sent him a letter  on 2 April talking of Mr Ds call to amend his policy  
enclosing a revised policy schedule. This revised  schedule said his remaining cat 
was now the only cat on the schedule,  it then talks of the initial  premium being  
£22.51 with the subsequent monthly  premiums  being £0.00 and then the annual 
price has been adjusted by the amount below being vet fees of £22.51. It turns out 
this was a refund of part of the premium for Mrs Ds deceased cat, since Mr D had 
finished paying the premium instalments for that year but it doesnt actually say that. 
Nor does  it explain  the multi-pet  discount  would now be removed  going  forward and 
nor indeed it is a new renewal invitation for his remaining  cat. 
Ref: DRN81766372Its very clear in the call recording that Mr D simply didnt get the revised  renewal for 
just his one cat, which UKI said it sent out to him on 6 April. Instead,  he merely saw 
the premium for £59 coming out his bank account, as on the call it sounds like hes 
referring to whats on his bank statements rather than any communication or letters  
from UKI. And this is where all the confusion  arose  for Mr D. Whilst the adviser 
acknowledged he didnt  receive this renewal  invitation of 6 April, she failed  to explain 
that really it was the removal  of the multi-pet discount that so increased his remaining 
cats premium. Had she done that clearly, I think Mr D might  have  been  satisfied with 
that. 
UKI has shown me that its system generated that renewal quote for his remaining cat 
on 6 April and that would  also meant  it was sent. Im satisfied with that. And whilst  I 
can see Mr D simply  didnt receive that via the postal system, I cant  hold UKI 
responsible for any failures of the postal system.
But I can hold it responsible for just confusing Mr D further when he called up on 28 
April. Whilst it may be the case  that its front line staff dont get involved in explaining 
reasons for the premium  increase, had it simply explained to Mr D that the premium 
increase was probably due to removal of the multi-pet discount, things would have 
been so much clearer for Mr D. I note that even on the renewal invitation for Mrs Ds 
one cat (which Mr D didnt receive) it also doesnt  explain  hes no longer  benefitting  
from a multi-pet discount either. 
On checking its website, it clearly markets  the benefits of having a multi-pet  discount 
for its pet insurance,  and consequently I dont think its that unreasonable  from a 
customer service  point  of view to remind people when that benefit ceases. Like here 
in Mr Ds case when he ended up with just insuring one pet going forward. Mr D 
clearly was only asking  for clarification  in his call on 28 April, he didnt get any 
clarification, and I dont  think  thats reasonable.
Having said that, I dont agree the consequences to Mr D of not getting this 
clarification, means  UKI should refund  him any premium payments. Thats because 
theres nothing wrong with the premium amount UKI asked  Mr D to pay for his 
remaining cat. And further his cat remained insured until Mr D cancelled his policy,  so 
therefore Mr D had the benefit of the policy for all of that time until he cancelled it.
I think all this confusion caused  Mr D some  unnecessary trouble and upset, in first 
having to complain to UKI and then bring  his complaint to us. So I think  UKI should 
now pay him £200 compensation.
Mr D responded that he continued to believe UKI did something wrong in not giving him the 
information that his premium  increased for his remaining cat due to the removal  of the multi-
pet discount. This meant he couldnt  cancel the policy earlier. However he said he would 
accept my provisional decision if UKI didnt challenge it. And that he was sorry his complaint 
took up so much of our time.
UKI didnt  accept Mr D didnt receive his renewal notice because  it said on the call recording 
Mr D said he had two different bills in the last two months. It clarified  that the removal of the 
multi-pet discount only accounted for 15% of the increase. The rest was made up of pet 
claim inflation, the pets age and a change in IPT. It said it tried to offer Mr D a reduction in 
premium but he refused.  It thought  telling  a consumer about  the removal of a multi-pet  
Ref: DRN81766373discount after a pet had died could be seen to be insensitive and theres no requirement on it 
to tell its policyholders.
It maintained the information on the renewal  certificate was clear, as it gave the previous 
years premium amount  with what was due for the coming year,  so Mr D could make an 
informed decision.
So it said on this basis, this complaint didnt warrant compensation. And since I agreed  there  
was nothing wrong with the premium amount, no financial loss occurred.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, there is no reason at all for Mr D to think he ought to apologise that his complaint has 
taken up so much of our time. This service solely exists to clarify and try to sort out precisely 
the sort of issues Mr D made his complaint about, thats whats were here for. Our role is 
always to see if the business did anything wrong. If it didnt, we explain that further. And if it 
did, we explain how things should  then be put right.  
 
Ive again listened to the call recording.  Its very clear to me that Mr D didnt receive  the 
renewal notice for his remaining cat. Mr D starts off the conversation  saying hes had two 
different bills in the last two months, And then when  the advisor steps  to clarify the premium 
he had paid for the last policy year, she then said he was quoted £59 for his remaining cat 
for the coming  year.  Mr D clearly then says he wasnt  quoted that as he hasnt been quoted  
anything. Thats the point. What  it seems Mr D received, was the original renewal invitation 
for both cats and this very unclear document, which was actually a refund for some premium 
for the cat, which had sadly died.
Its also always been clear throughout his complaint, that Mr D was never  aware until he saw 
it had been taken out of his account that his new premium for his remaining cat was going to 
£59. So for whatever reason (presumably  the fault of the postal service, as I explained in my 
provisional decision) Mr D didnt receive  this renewal  invitation.
So had these  issues been clarified for Mr D when he phoned up, I think  that would be have 
been an end to the matter. Instead,  without  clarifying things for Mr D then, and then trying  to 
get him to agree  to some cover changes, so his premium could be reduced, sadly  that 
simply compounded the issue  even  more.
So for these reasons, I remain of the view that this complaint is partially  upheld  and that UKI 
should pay Mr D £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
my final decision
So its my final decision that I partially  uphold this complaint.
I now require UK Insurance Limited, trading  as Direct Line Insurance  to pay Mr D £200 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Ref: DRN81766374Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8176637