K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Bank of Scotland  Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in 2005.
background
The PPI policy was sold as part of a Total Mortgage Payment Protection policy  (TMPP).      
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes PPI together with other 
features, such as life insurance and critical illness cover.  The individual  elements  of the 
cover can be added or taken out as the consumer wishes. 
Mr Fs complaint is about the PPI element of the TMPP. So this decision relates solely  to the 
PPI part of the policy. The PPI covered Mr F against accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
If hed made  a successful  claim, the PPI policy wouldve covered the mortgage repayments 
for up to 12 months.
Ill refer to Halifax in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
The policy was sold many years  ago so it isnt surprising that Halifax doesnt  have copies  of 
all the paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account  that memories  can 
fade over time. In cases like this, where  the evidence  is incomplete or contradictory, I make  
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  that is, on what  I think  is most likely to have 
happened. 
Ive taken into account what we know about  how Halifax  sold these policies in branches  
around this time and the documents weve seen in the past. And, on balance,  the paperwork  
in these cases made it clear to consumers that the policy  was optional and they would have 
been asked for their consent to the cover.
I note Mr F held a mortgage with Halifax from 2002 without the PPI cover. It was sold to him 
in 2005 when he applied for a re-mortgage.  So I think Mr F would likely be aware he didnt  
have to take the policy to obtain the mortgage.
I have seen a copy of the mortgage offer from 2005 which  states that Mr F didnt have to 
take out any insurance through  Halifax.
The premiums for the TMPP policy were  taken separately to the mortgage payments by 
direct debit. And the policy  was in force until March 2007. If Mr F didnt want  the cover  or 
thought he didnt need it Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not 
seen any evidence that he did.
Ref: DRN82840952So taking everything into account I think its more likely  Mr F was told he had a choice  about  
whether to buy the policy or not, and he chose to take it.
Halifax recommended  that Mr F buy the policy. So Halifax had a duty to make  sure it was 
right for him. And from what Ive seen  I think it was.
Mr F seems to have been eligible for the policy.  He wasnt affected by anything  the policy 
didnt cover such as unusual employment conditions  or existing medical conditions. So hed 
have been able to make a claim if he needed  to.
Mr F has told us he wouldve received full sick pay from his employer for up to 12 months if 
he was unable to work.  From experience  this seems a generous level of sick pay given the 
industry Mr F was employed  in and the fact that Mr F had only been with his employer for 
three years. But in any event this particular PPI policy couldve paid Mr F a benefit  for up to 
12 months in addition to any sick pay. So if Mr F had become  unwell  I still think he wouldve  
found the policy useful, particularly if he was unable to work for a prolonged spell.
The policy would also pay a benefit  for up to 12 months if Mr F lost his job. Although  Mr F 
may have  got some  redundancy pay if that happened, the policy  would allow him to use any 
redundancy pay or savings towards  other living costs. 
And I must take into account  that Mr F was taking out a mortgage in his sole name and 
wouldve been solely responsible for maintaining  the repayments if things went  wrong.     
Given the potential  consequences of not being  able to maintain repayments on the 
mortgage, I think Mr F had a need  for the cover.
As well as making sure the policy was right for him, Halifax  also had to give Mr F information  
that was clear, fair and not misleading.   
Its possible that Halifax didnt give Mr F all the information it shouldve.  But from what  Ive 
seen the policy was right for Mr F and I think its likely Mr F was interested in this type of 
cover. The cost of the policy seems to have  been comparable to other,  similar policies on the 
market at the time, and Ive not seen anything to make me think the premiums were  not 
affordable. So even if Halifax had given Mr F all the clear information about  the policy and 
the premiums that it should have, I still think hed have bought it.
In summary  I think its most likely  the policy was presented as optional and Mr F chose to 
buy it. It looks like Halifax recommended  a policy that was right for Mr F, and I dont think 
any clearer information wouldve made him change  his mind about  applying for the policy. 
Ref: DRN82840953my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8284095