K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI. Ill refer to the 
business as BoS  in my decision  for ease.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BoS made it clear that Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Bs credit card application form. On this 
form, under  the heading Payment Protection a tick has been placed next to an 
option to add PPI to the account. Mrs B has also signed the form using her maiden 
name. 
So I think this indicates that she wanted PPI and understood  that it was optional.  
BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed  to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  BoS didnt tell Mrs B, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN87872062Ive thought about everything Mrs B has said - including what shes said about not needing 
PPI because of her existing means of making her repayments. But I still think that Mrs B 
could have found the PPI useful as the PPI would have paid out for longer than Mrs Bs 
existing means of making her repayments   even when Ive considered  Mrs Bs sick pay and 
savings together.  So these points  dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But The Bank of Scotland  Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8787206