K820x#14complaint
Ms L and Ms W, represented  by their solicitor, AL, have complained  the Society of Lloyds 
(Lloyds) declined a claim under a buildings insurance policy they had in respect of an 
unoccupied residential property, and their delay in dealing with the claim resulted in the 
property selling for a reduced price.
As AL acted for the parties throughout, and for ease of reference,  Ill refer to AL only 
throughout this decision.
background
Ms L and Ms W inherited a property in January 2017. The property sat empty whilst 
executors, a solicitor firm in which AL (whos  also Ms Ls husband) is a partner, settled her 
estate. The property required  insurance,  and AL arranged appropriate unoccupied buildings  
insurance cover through a broker. This was renewed in January 2018.
In March 2018 the property, whilst  still unoccupied, suffered a flood due to a burst  water  pipe 
in the loft, causing significant damage. AL tried to claim  on the insurance policy.  Lloyds 
appointed a firm to assess the damage.  However, after a seven-week delay with no report 
provided Lloyds  then appointed loss adjusters (B) to assess the damage. After  B inspected 
the property and reviewed the policy, the claim was declined. This was because the property 
wasnt heated  above 15 degrees during the time in question  the policy contained  a specific 
clause saying that escape of water claims would only be covered in the winter months if 
either the utility  mains  were switched off/water drained, or the property remained heated 
above 15 degrees.
AL raised  concerns  about the policy with B  they didnt know about the clause, it was unfair 
and should have been highlighted. Also, there were unacceptable delays in the claim being  
considered. However,  B thought the terms were  clear,  and the claim would remain declined.
AL complained to Lloyds, who advised that any complaint about the way the policy  was sold 
needed to be made  to the broker (a complaint  had already been made).  Regarding how the 
claim was processed,  Lloyds agreed that B had interpreted the relevant escape of water 
clause and declined  the claim correctly. However, they accepted  there had been poor 
service, and a delay dealing with the claim at the outset, and so arranged  to pay £100  as 
compensation. They were  also satisfied the broker who sold the policy had done enough to 
highlight the relevant clause.
Unhappy with this, AL brought their complaint to us. However, our investigator  agreed 
Lloyds outcome, and for the same  reasons. Unhappy  with this, AL asked an ombudsman  to 
look at their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im afraid  I agree with the conclusions  
reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
AL also complained about the way their broker sold the policy to them. I have  dealt with this 
complaint separately. Here, I need to consider whether the claim was correctly declined,  and 
the way in which the claim was processed.
Ref: DRN80423672The relevant  policy wording says as follows:
What is covered
Water or oil leaking or spilling from any fixed domestic water or heating installation, swimming  
pool, hot tub, jacuzzi,  spa, aquarium, washing machine, refrigerator, freezer or dishwasher.
What is not covered
Loss or damage unless  during the period from 1st November to 31st March all mains 
supplies are turned off and the water and central  heating systems are drained or the 
central heating system  is kept running  to maintain a temperature  of 15 degrees  
centigrade throughout the private residence
I think Lloyds was right to decline ALs claim. AL have confirmed the water in the property,  
which had been  unoccupied for over a year by the time of the burst pipe, hadnt been 
drained. Nor had the central heating been  kept on above 15 degrees  during the winter  
months. The relevant  terms  of the policy hadnt been complied with. On that basis, I think  
Lloyds were entitled to reject the claim  the damage was caused by an escape of water, 
and the part of the policy that deals with this type of damage  specifically requires the 
policyholder to do certain things to mitigate that risk of damage.  Here, AL didnt do these 
things  the central heating wasnt on.
On how the claim was managed, Lloyds have already  accepted there were delays in the 
early stages, and arranged payment of £100 as compensation  for these. I agree there  were  
avoidable delays  in this period  there was effectively a seven-week period  after the claim 
was notified to Lloyds where  no real progress was made.
So I need to assess  what effect, if any, this delay caused. Before doing so, I want to make 
clear I am only looking at the seven-week  delay between the notification  of claim to Lloyds,  
and the eventual appointment of B. This is because,  after Bs engagement, I think  the claim 
progressed smoothly  and speedily.  From  the date of B being  instructed, to AL being  notified 
their claim wouldnt be covered, was 17 days only. I dont think  this is an unreasonable 
length of time to reach a decision  on a claim of this type. And whilst further time was spent 
engaging in correspondence about that decision, because  in my view the decision to reject 
the claim was the correct  one, I cant say anything that happened after the claim was 
declined can be said to be Lloyds responsibility.
So, returning  to the initial seven-week  delay, AL told us the property sold at a reduced price, 
due in part to the delays  in dealing with the claim,  so I asked AL to provide more  information 
in relation to this. Ive looked at the response, which confirms an accepted  offer had been 
made for the property a few weeks  prior to the leak occurring. Im told the existence  of water 
damage, and claim delays, was behind this purchaser withdrawing. Im also told that buyers 
looked at the state of the property and decided the need for repairs was a factor  causing  
reduced offers.
Dealing with the damage to the property caused  by the leak first, this was always going  to be 
a factor  in the eventual sale of the property. Ive already  said I think  the claim was properly 
declined, so the property was never going to be returned to its previous condition  courtesy  of 
Lloyds. And whilst there was a seven-week  delay after the claim was made, the post-
damage value  of the property was the same regardless if dealt  with after one week,  or after 
seven. The price eventually achieved was presumably what  the market thought was the 
right one, and to a buyer happy to purchase  a property  in a damaged condition.
Ref: DRN80423673So, I cant say the seven-week delay dealing  with the claim had any detrimental effect on the 
sale price,  and it follows I dont think Lloyds need to compensate AL for any loss in the sale 
price achieved.
But, I do agree the seven-week delay was unnecessary, and is likely to have caused  some 
inconvenience or frustration to AL. Lloyds  has already accepted  this, and arranged for £100  
to be paid to them as compensation for this. On balance, I think  this represents a fair award 
in these circumstances. The delay dealing with their claim was for a relatively  short period, 
with no real impact on the actual  result of their claim. I cant see AL suffered  any 
inconvenience beyond  that initial delay, so I wont  be asking Lloyds to pay any additional 
compensation for the inconvenience AL experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 November 2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8042367