K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained that Response Funding  Limited (trading as Fancyapayday.co.uk) 
irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Mr S was provided with eighteen payday loans  between March  2013 and February  2016.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr S complaint and concluded that Fancyapayday unfairly 
and irresponsibly provided loans 6 to 18 to Mr S. So she partially  upheld  the complaint. 
Fancyapayday accepted our adjudicators assessment and calculated how much  
compensation it needed to pay Mr S. It then asked  our adjudicator to confirm  Mr S accepted  
her assessment and also provide the details of the account he wanted  his compensation 
paid into. Mr S confirmed  his acceptance  and provided his details. Fancyapayday then 
decided to withdraw its agreement and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It isnt in dispute that Fancyapayday  accepted  our adjudicators assessment and that it 
offered compensation to Mr S. As this offer was communicated to Mr S and it was already  
accepted before it was withdrawn, I dont think that its fair and reasonable for Fancyapayday  
to withdraw the offer and ask for the case to be re-reviewed. This is especially in 
circumstances where  it hasnt provided  anything at all to explain what it thinks  our 
adjudicator got wrong in her assessment.  
As this is the case, Im satisfied that whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of  
Mr S complaint, is for Fancyapayday to pay compensation as set out in our adjudicators 
assessment of 14 May 2019.
So Im upholding  Mr S complaint and Fancyapayday should put things right.
what Fancyapayday should do to put things right
To put things right for Mr S, Fancyapayday should:  
refund  all interest and charges Mr S paid as result of having been provided with loans 
six to eighteen;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr S owed Fancyapayday money means  that any information 
recorded about loans six to eighteen  on Mr S credit file is adverse. So all entries 
about these loans should be removed  from Mr S credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Fancyapayday to take off tax from this interest. 
Fancyapayday must give Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN83503292my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr S complaint. Response Funding Limited 
should put matters right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8350329