K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains, through his solicitors, that TenetConnect Limited  through an Appointed 
Representative (AR) failed to give him suitable advice, in particular that the adviser  didnt 
ring-fence the money he received as an inheritance  so that his then wife had no interest in it.
background
Mr H and his wife saw an adviser at the beginning of 2013  as they wanted advice about 
investing around £150,000.  The adviser recommended  that most of the money  be invested 
in the name  of Mr Hs wife. 
Mr H and his wife divorced in 2016 and the money  invested was considered as part of the 
matrimonial assets and his wife was entitled to a significant proportion of it.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint a copy  of which is attached  and forms part of 
this final decision.  In short I found  
I wasnt satisfied that just because the adviser  was aware  that the money had come  
from an inheritance he needed  to consider ring-fencing the money when advising a 
married couple.
I thought he only needed to consider doing this if he was made aware this was 
something Mr H wanted.
The fact find didnt  record that was something Mr H wanted and the objective of him 
and his wife was to achieve  growth  on their long term savings. This indicated  they 
considered the money as joint assets.
If Mr Hs objective was to ring-fence the money  I wouldve  expected him to have  
pointed his key objective wasnt referred  to and the fact he didnt do so indicates  this 
wasnt discussed.
There is nothing in the documents Mr H received in 2013 that makes any reference  
to safeguarding the money.
It was clear most  of the money  was invested  in the name of Mr Hs wife and I thought 
it would  be obvious to a layperson  that she was likely  to have an interest in the 
investments in her name.
The email of 1 February  2016  from the adviser referred to the money being ultimately 
for Mr Hs nephews  but I didnt think this was evidence  the money was to be ring-
fenced only what Mr H intended  to do with the money at some point in the future.
If the money had been ring-fenced for the nephews Mr H wouldve had no interest in 
it and this isnt consistent with what his solicitors have said as they have made clear 
the money was for his benefit  only and shouldve been ring-fenced for his benefit.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision and providing  
any information they wanted me to consider before making my final decision. TenetConnect 
had nothing further to add. Mr H didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary he 
made the following points.
Why hadnt serious consideration been given to the advisers email of 1 February 
2016 which sets out his understanding,  and goes  to the heart  of the matter.
Why is the fact that there is no recording on the file of what is set out in the email a 
failing on his part?
It is unfair that he, as a layperson, shouldve identified his concerns because:
Ref: DRN89827102oHe didnt foresee  he would  divorce  his wife and the adviser shouldve advised 
about all potential scenarios.
oHe didnt appreciate the financial implications or he wouldve acted 
accordingly.
oHis current solicitor  and his divorce solicitor  and counsel all thought the 
adviser had responsibility for advising him about  safeguarding the money.
oIt is difficult to accept  the criticism of his actions  when  what he did was 
influenced by his health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the various points made by Mr H. I will comment  briefly on what he has 
said but I am not going to change my provisional  decision. He has suggested I havent given 
serious consideration to the email  of 1 February  2016. But I commented  in detail on that 
email in my provisional decision and why I didnt think  it supported Mr Hs complaint. I dont 
think there is anything further  I can add to what I have already  said about this.
I have not said the fact there is no recording of what is set out in the email is a failing on the 
part of Mr H. And the email doesnt  establish that his objective was to ring-fence the money 
in his name and for his benefit. So even if the contents were in the fact find and suitability 
letters it wouldnt change my decision.
I dont think the adviser had a responsibility  to consider all possible scenarios in advising 
Mr H and his wife. What he had to do was provide suitable advice that met their objective 
and I think he did that. 
I note that Mr Hs legal advisers have  told him what they think  the advisers responsibilities  
are. But no evidence has been provided to support what they have told him and I dont agree 
with what they have said.
I note Mr H feels he is being criticised  but my findings are not intended as criticism but are 
simply to explain why Im not satisfied  the adviser  did anything  wrong.
I would also point out that I have been given no evidence there  was any way of ensuring the 
money couldve been invested  for Mr Hs sole benefit in a way that meant  it would not have 
to be taken account of in later divorce proceedings. So there is no evidence that Mr H has 
suffered any loss even  if I had found the adviser  shouldve discussed ring-fencing  the 
money.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89827103COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains, through his solicitors, that TenetConnect Limited through  an Appointed 
Representative (AR) failed to give him suitable advice, in particular that the adviser  didnt ring-fence 
the money he received  as an inheritance  so that his former wife had no interest in it.
background
Mr H and his wife saw an adviser  at the beginning  of 2013  as they wanted advice about  investing  
around £150,000.  The adviser recommended that most of the money  be invested in the name  of Mr 
Hs wife. 
Mr H and his wife divorced in 2016 and the money invested was considered as part of the matrimonial 
assets and his wife was entitled to a significant  proportion of it.
He complained to the AR through  his solicitors  and the business responded  but didnt accept that the 
AR adviser had done  anything wrong.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  He said that Mr 
H and his wife may have  agreed that the funds should be treated separately but there was nothing  to 
show the business was made aware of this. 
He said the fact find they had signed at the time indicated the money was in a joint account  and he 
had seen nothing  to indicate  the source  of the funds and there was nothing in the suitability letter that 
suggested that the funds  needed to be treated  other than as joint assets. 
The adjudicator said that the business was entitled to rely on the information it had been given and 
the advice it had provided wasnt unreasonable based on this. He said there was no evidence  to 
support what  Mr H had said.
Mr Hs solicitors responded and said Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators  view for the following  
reasons:
The adviser  was aware the money  had come  from an inheritance  as set out in his email of 1 
February 2016 and the letters about the inheritance  sent in 2011 by the solicitors dealing  with 
the estate which it has enclosed.  
There is no dispute  about  the intention to safeguard the funds  as seen in the email of 1 
February 2016.
Mr H was entirely reliant on the adviser  and business to provide proper financial advice 
including how to safeguard the funds.
It was for the adviser to identify what advice was needed even if that was to refer Mr H and 
his former  wife to another  professional  such as a solicitor or accountant.
The fact there is no documentary evidence is a failing by the adviser and the business and 
shouldnt be held against Mr H.
Mr H wouldve followed  the advice even if it was less tax efficient.
Mr H and his former wife did sign to say the information the adviser had recorded  was correct  
but the fact there wasnt reference to safeguarding  the funds,  within the fact find, was a failing  
by the adviser.
Mr H has lost a significant amount of money because the funds were  treated as joint assets 
when Mr H and his former  wife divorced.  He has experienced financial difficulties which could 
have been alleviated to a large  extent if he couldve used the funds  on a short term basis and 
put the money back once he had overcome his financial difficulties.
As Mr H didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been referred  to me for review.
Ref: DRN89827104my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H was a higher rate taxpayer and his wife a basic rate taxpayer at the time of advice.  The money  
was invested in ISAs  in both Mr Hs name and that of his wife with around £75,000 invested in a 
General Investment Account  (GIA)  in Mr Hs wifes  name only. There were tax benefits  of initially  
investing the majority of the money  in her name. The money in the GIA was then used to make use of 
the yearly ISA allowance for both of them. Im satisfied  that the advice was generally suitable subject 
to the issue raised by Mr H in this complaint.
The adjudicator said he hadnt seen anything to indicate the source  of the funds. But the adviser 
stated in an email dated 1 February 2016 that it is his understanding  that the bulk of the capital came 
from an inheritance  from Mr Ts grandfather.  This isnt recorded  in the fact find but as the adviser has 
confirmed this as his understanding it is more  likely than not this was mentioned  to him by Mr H. So 
there doesnt  appear to be any dispute the adviser was aware of this.
The solicitors seem to infer that there  is some  general  duty on a financial  adviser when advising a 
couple to discuss safeguarding  joint funds for the benefit of one of them simply because  of where the 
money originated.
But I dont think the advisers awareness of where  the funds originated is significant  by itself.  I dont 
agree that it means  the adviser needed to consider whether that money  needed to be ring-fenced  in 
some way. In other  words I dont think the source of the funds indicated how money should  be 
invested on behalf of a married couple. I think the adviser  only had to consider  safeguarding the funds 
for Mr H if that was something he was made aware was an objective.
I have considered the fact find completed at the time of investment. There  is nothing in that document 
which refers to the money being ring-fenced  so that Mr Hs former wife would have no interest in the 
money  even if such an arrangement would be upheld  in a divorce case..
The fact find - signed by both of them - identified their objective as:
Clients wish to achieve growth on their long term savings  which are generally all held in cash, while  
also achieving some  diversification with liquid investments as they generally invest in property
This indicates that Mr H and his former wife considered the money  as joint assets regardless of where 
it had come from. There is nothing in the fact find that shows  that one of the objectives was to ring-
fence the money from Mr Hs inheritance. 
I note the solicitors have suggested that it was a failing  on the part of the adviser that safeguarding 
the money wasnt mentioned. I have already said that I dont accept there was any obligation  to offer 
advice on that basis unless the client  identified that as an objective. 
And if it is something Mr H says he made the adviser aware of I wouldve expected him to have 
pointed out to the adviser that this key objective wasnt  referred to in the fact find rather than just 
agreeing with what  the adviser  had put. The fact he didnt do so suggests this wasnt discussed  with 
the adviser. 
The suitability letters that the adviser sent with regard  to each investment he recommended also 
make no reference to safeguarding  the money. The objective  within each suitability letter was 
identified as:
Your primary investment goal is to grow investment portfolio steadily  over the long term with a view to 
providing tax efficient retirement income  and/or capital withdrawals in the future.
Ref: DRN89827105Again, if there had been a discussion about safeguarding  the money  but no reference in the suitability 
letters to that objective,  I wouldve expected Mr H to have discussed this with the adviser  at the time.
In short there is nothing in any of the documents that Mr H received in 2013 that makes  any reference 
to safeguarding the money. I dont think it is enough for Mr H to say, as his solicitors have done on his 
behalf, that he relied totally  on the advice  he received. It was clear at the time that most  of the money 
was invested in Mr Hs former wifes  name only. 
I dont think it needs a financial  adviser  to point out that Mr Hs wife was likely  to have an interest in 
investments that were actually in her name and that these werent ring-fenced for him  I think  that 
would be obvious  to a layperson. If that isnt what Mr H wanted I think he wouldve  or shouldve raised 
this with the adviser in 2013. As he didnt do so Im not persuaded that this was an objective  that was 
discussed with the adviser at the time.
The solicitors have said there is no dispute about the intention  to safeguard the funds  as seen in the 
email of 1 February 2016  from the adviser. But what the adviser said in that email was that his 
original notes  state that the inherited money was to ultimately be for the benefit of the great-
grandchildren - which  wouldve been Mr Hs nephews  as he had no children.  
I dont think this provides evidence  the adviser  was told the money needed  to be safeguarded  for the 
nephews, only what Mr H intended  to do with the money at some point in the future.  I would also point 
out that if the money had been safeguarded  for his nephews Mr H would  have had no entitlement to 
any of the money anyway.
More importantly  this isnt consistent with what Mr H has said.  His solicitors, in correspondence with 
the business, stated clearly that the money was for Mr H to do with as he wished and that it shouldve 
been ring-fenced for his benefit  not for anyone  else.  So it isnt part of Mr Hs complaint that the 
money shouldve been safeguarded for his nephews.  There is nothing else in the email of 1 February  
2016 which gives any indication the adviser was aware  of the need to ring-fence  the money for Mr H, 
or anyone  else.
As the solicitors have referred  to specific provisions  of the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 
dealing with the suitability  of advice I have considered these. Based on the evidence provided Im 
satisfied that the adviser didnt breach  the rules.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained  above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr H to accept  or reject my 
decision before 25 May 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8982710