K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained to us about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which 
MBNA Limited (MBNA)  sold to him with a credit card in 1998. 
background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and said that it shouldnt  be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and so its been passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain the reasons 
for this.
These events took place  a long time ago and because of this some of the information no 
longer available. This isnt particularly unusual, given how long ago the sale was. In addition, 
the account closed in 2006. Ive used my knowledge  and experience of PPI sales  to help me 
think about what might have happened. Ive also looked carefully at what the parties  
have said. 
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the PPI and based  on the information 
we have us about his circumstances I think Mr A met those rules. 
Next, Ive looked at whether MBNA made  it clear  enough that the policy  was optional. Mr A 
told us he was unaware the PPI existed in the first place.  He told us he thinks  the policy  was 
added without his knowledge or without it being explained to him. MBNA told us its records  
show the policy was sold by phone call, after Mr A had submitted a form to apply for the 
card. But due to the time thats passed  the recording of the call is no longer available. 
Mr A has told us that he later tried to claim on the PPI policy and his claim was turned down. 
This suggests to me that Mr A had a use for the policy and was aware that hed taken it out. 
So it seems  likely he was mistaken  when he informed us he knew nothing  about the policy. 
This is entirely understandable given  how much time has passed since the sale.  However I 
think this shows its most  likely that Mr A asked  for the PPI and knew  it was on his account.
In relation to the time he tried to claim, Mr A told us he was very dissatisfied with the way in 
which he was treated and with his claim being  turned  down. This particular  final decision 
concerns whether the PPI policy  was mis-sold,  but if Mr A wants to make a complaint about  
how his declined claim was handled,  he should complain to his insurer in the first instance.  If 
he doesnt receive a satisfactory response from the insurer he is of course fee to bring  that 
matter to this Service. 
Ref: DRN88719802Next, MBNA says it wouldnt have recommended the PPI cover with the credit card so this 
means it wasnt under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mr As situation.  But it 
did have to give him enough  information  about the policy so he could make a decision for 
himself whether to take it out. 
Given the time that has passed, its not possible to say for certain  whether Mr A received all 
the correct information. But we know that the cost of the policy  was comparable to the cost of 
other similar policies available at the time. From the information Mr A provided, I think any 
protection from sickness he had with his job would have been  quite moderate, so I think  he 
probably decided  that he had a need  of the safety net PPI could provide. In the event of a 
successful claim  for example, Mr A would have  been able to have his outstanding  balance 
reduced by 10% each  month for up to 12 months. In addition,  given his circumstances at the 
time of the sale, he wouldnt  have  been  affected by any of the main exclusions or restrictions  
under the policy.  So having considered  all the available evidence,  I dont being  given clearer  
information about the PPI would have dissuaded Mr A from taking out the policy.  So on 
balance, I think he probably  agreed to the PPI and I dont require MBNA to put anything  right.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.  
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8871980