K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy. Im aware hes made  a number of complaints, so to be clear,  this decision is 
about the PPI policy  that was taken out with an RBS credit card, in October 2003. 
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the mis-sale shouldnt  be 
upheld. But RBS has already offered to pay back some money  to Mr E for the commission it 
received from the sale. 
Mr E still thinks the PPI was mis-sold in the first place so the complaint has therefore  been 
passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint about being mis-sold the PPI.
When Mr E complained to us, he said he couldnt  remember, with any certainty, what 
happened when  he took the credit card and PPI out. He said the events were  too long ago. 
Nevertheless, I can see Mr E feels quite strongly that the PPI was mis-sold to him and he 
says RBS cant provide  any evidence to the contrary. He also says our adjudicator  made a 
number of assumptions which arent fair.
So Id like to say that Ive looked very carefully at everything Mr E has said about  the sale.  
Ive also looked  closely at his circumstances from that time and Ive taken into consideration 
that these events were  over 15 years ago.
Neither party seems to be sure how the card and policy were sold but RBSs  records show 
the PPI was issued  at the same time as Mr Es credit card. Neither Mr E, nor RBS, can 
produce the original  agreement but RBS has shown me its computerised records and some 
statements from Mr Es credit card account.
Mr E told us he worked in financial  services  for some considerable time and had wide 
experience in the sector. So I start from the premise that he would not be unfamiliar with 
financial products. I also note hed taken out a similar credit  card account shortly before this 
sale (in February 2003) and that PPI had been  requested.
Of course,  that doesnt mean he agreed to the PPI a few months later when he took out this 
credit card. But with the knowledge  we now have, I think its more likely Mr E would have 
been familiar with the process. I also note that his monthly credit  card statements 
immediately began to show that he was being charged for PPI. These charges were, in my 
opinion, prominently displayed on the pages  he would have been sent and described as 
PAYMENT PROTECTION INSURANCE . 
Ref: DRN84027652So I think if Mr E hadnt ever wanted  PPI, he would have wanted  to know why these 
charges were being applied.
Im afraid I disagree with Mr E when he says that we cant make  certain  assumptions.  
Theres very little hard evidence left by way of documentation. And so its both fair and 
reasonable that we endeavour to think about whats more likely to have taken place. On this 
basis I think its much more likely  Mr E would have known he didnt have to have PPI if he 
didnt want to. He would  also have been  able to see that he was being charged  for PPI over 
a sustained time period.
I therefore think all this shows its much  more likely Mr E consented to the PPI at the time.
We simply cant say for sure if this was advised sale.  However,  I dont think  this really 
matters. This is because he was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies. The PPI cover, at the start, cost around  £0.75 
per £100  of the outstanding monthly  balance on Mr Es card. It looks like it went  up a little, 
later. But I dont think this was unaffordable for him and it is broadly in line with similar cover 
Ive seen from that time. 
Mr E says he had a healthcare policy. Ive thought about this but it doesnt  necessarily make 
the PPI unsuitable for him. This is because the PPI policy  would have covered different 
eventualities and the evidence suggests he wanted the PPI anyway with his new card. It 
would also have reduced his credit  card balance by 10% each month for up to a year if hed 
needed to claim and this would  have  been  in addition to any other means  he had at the time. 
Mr E also said he was self-employed. I dont know whether thats  right because the previous 
credit card application Ive referred  to above shows he described his occupation as 
employed full-time with a named employer, rather than the self-employed option that was 
also available on the form. However Ive looked  at the PPI policy Mr E was sold and I think  
hed have been able to make a claim for unemployment anyway. Put another way, I dont 
think him being self-employed matters.
Finally, RBS had a responsibility to give information  during  the sale that was clear, fair and 
not misleading. Its obviously possible that RBS might not have done everything  right.  But its 
just as likely  that it did  as it didnt. Overall,  I dont think  theres enough for me to say Mr E 
was mis-sold this PPI policy.
what the business needs  to do
As I said earlier,  RBS has already agreed  to pay back to Mr E the commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. RBS should re-work the credit card 
account and pay back to Mr E the difference between what  he owes  and what he wouldve 
owed if the commission  and profit share  it got hadnt  been  over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
RBS should also pay Mr E 8%* simple interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
Ref: DRN84027653The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E.
But Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc has agreed  to pay back to Mr E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8402765