K820x#14complaint
Ms M as personal representative of the late Mrs W complains that National Westminster  
Bank Plc has lost some items  deposited with the bank.
background
Ms M says that after Mrs Ws death in 2017  it became  apparent that some items shed 
deposited with National Westminster had gone  missing.
National Westminsters representative said in its final response that Mrs W deposited a small 
tin box and brown sealed envelope with the bank in December 2004. Ms M says that a tin 
box was found  at Mrs Ws flat but it didnt  contain any of the jewellery  she expected  and the 
tin box deposited  with the bank must  therefore still be in its possession. But National 
Westminster has conducted  multiple  searches to locate Mrs Ws box without success. And 
the banks records  show Mrs W withdrew  the small tin box and the sealed brown envelope 
on 16 May 2008. Theres nothing to suggest Mrs W re-deposited any items after that date. 
The bank therefore has nothing to return to Ms M. But as the relevant documents  couldve 
been found earlier National Westminsters prepared to offer £200 as a goodwill gesture in full 
and final settlement of any claims the estate has against the bank arising from the late Mrs 
Ws safe custody deposit.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
National Westminster has shown two items  were  deposited with it by Mrs W in 2004. 
Although they were  noted as missing  in 2009  when items were  first recorded  in a 
new system  the bank  has found an acknowledgement form dated 16 May 2008 which 
was signed by Mrs W and acknowledged  shed received  a small metal tin box and 
one brown envelope.  Theres also no evidence shed re-deposited these items after 
this date. 
National Westminster has also conducted searches in its branch and hasnt found 
these two items.
Overall she cant say for certain  that National Westminster had these two items and 
lost them. And its offer to pay the late Mrs Ws estate £200  is fair.
Ms M has asked for an ombudsman review. In summary she says she was told by a bank 
branch that the items hadnt been  taken  out. Mrs W wouldnt have kept her jewellery and 
other personal items,  including medals, anywhere  else other than in a safety deposit box. 
And she wouldnt have  kept a letter  of wishes detailing these items if she didnt have  them. 
She also told a friend shed left these items to her grandchildren.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Ms M has provided  detailed  submissions  to support her complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Ref: DRN88120532National Westminsters records clearly show a locked grey tin and sealed brown parcel  were  
deposited by Mrs W in December 2004. But an acknowledgement form its recently found 
also shows these two items were signed for and taken out by Mrs W on 16 May 2008.
And theres  nothing to show  either  item was re-deposited after that.
The situation  was complicated by the bank recording  the items as missing in 2009  when it 
introduced a new system  and by the fact it didnt quickly locate the acknowledgement  form 
when Ms M asked for information. 
Even so I havent seen  anything to suggest any items were redeposited by Mrs W after May 
2008 or that National  Westminster has lost any of the her items  as is now suggested. 
Theres also nothing to show  what was in the locked  tin box or sealed  brown  envelope when 
they were deposited  between  2004  and 2008.  And the tin and sealed  brown  parcels 
contents were neither  known to nor listed  by the bank.
I understand Ms Ms frustration and disappointment  that she cannot now trace items such  as 
jewellery and medals that the late Mrs W valued. Although  the late Mrs W apparently told a 
friend these  items were to be passed to her grandchildren and left a letter of wishes, its not 
clear how up to date these instructions were. Unfortunately the whereabouts of these  items  
isnt now known or traceable. And no one can now say what  the late Mrs W did with them  or 
whats become of them.
Taking everything into account  I dont think I can fairly or reasonably conclude National 
Westminster has lost either the locked tin box or the sealed brown  envelope or any items 
that mightve been in them - like jewellery  and medals - as Ms M suggests. I think  its more  
likely Mrs W took these items out of the bank in 2008, than not. And on balance  I dont think 
they were subsequently  re-deposited by her at the bank.
National Westminster has offered £200  as a goodwill gesture in full and final settlement of 
any claims the estate has against the bank arising from the late Mrs Ws safe custody 
deposit. And I simply leave it to Ms M, as the late Mrs Ws personal representative, to decide 
if she now wishes to accept this offer on behalf  of the estate.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M as personal 
representative of the late Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 2 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8812053