K820x#14complaint
Mr L complained that the advice he received from 2009 to 2013 from True Bearing Ltd 
regarding his pension  has left him financially disadvantaged. The advice  he was concerned 
about was:
advice to transfer his pension  funds  to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP)
the recommendation to switch funds when  reviewed
the transfer from the SIPP  to a fixed term annuity in 2013
the lack of consideration about  his long term income needs once the period of the 
fixed annuity ended.
background
In 2009 Mr L and his wife, Mrs L, met with True Bearing to discuss  pension  planning. He was 
63 years  old at that point  and was employed in their family business. He was earning around 
£80,000 a year and was intending to retire at age 65. He had a personal pension  and was a 
member of a small self-administered scheme  (SSAS) for their family business.  
True Bearing recommended  that Mr L transfer  his share of the SSAS and his personal 
pension into a SIPP. The transfer values were received  into the SIPP  by January 2010, 
giving him a balance of around £324,000.
In April 2010 True Bearing reviewed Mr Ls pension  and recommended  an investment 
strategy reflecting  Mr L being a cautious  investor.  Mr L followed True Bearings 
recommendation. 
In March 2011 Mr L and Mrs L met with True Bearing again. Mr L was no longer employed  
by the family business and wanted  advice on taking income from his SIPP. His bank 
required a payment of £100,000 as a result of a personal guarantee for a business banking 
facility, and Mr L needed to cover  this debt. True Bearing recommended  that Mr L and Mrs L 
take the maximum tax free lump  sum and then use a drawdown to meet Mr and Mrs Ls 
combined income needs. 
In September  2012 True Bearing  reviewed Mr Ls pension needs. True Bearing 
recommended that Mr L purchase a fixed term annuity to provide him with an annual  income  
of £16,500 to the age of 75. The illustration  indicated that there  would be a maturity  value of 
£127,629 at the end of that term. The recommendation report  indicated  that could then 
purchase an annuity of £8,828 a year. In 2013  Mr L purchased a fixed term annuity to 
provide an annual income of £16,500 a year,  but instead to the age of 78. The guaranteed  
maturity value was £109,962. True Bearing  provided  a supporting illustration  showing  that an 
annuity of £8,122 could  potentially be purchased with that sum at age 78.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to True Bearing in November 2017.  They  said that theyd been  
financially disadvantaged as a result of the advice True Bearing gave.
True Bearing didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said that their advice provided Mr L with 
the annual income  that he needed at the time. They explained  that he hadnt been financially 
disadvantaged because the amount of income hed have received from his pension  and the 
amount still left in his SIPP  at the point  his fixed annuity matures will be greater than his 
original fund value.
Ref: DRN80735952Mr L brought his complaint to our service. He complained that the advice to transfer  his 
pension into a SIPP and the investments selected werent suitable for him. He also didnt 
think the advice  to transfer to a fixed term annuity  was suitable and didnt consider his longer 
term income needs in retirement.
True Bearing didnt think that the complaint was one our service  could  consider.  They  
thought it had been brought too late, as the advice  in 2011 was more than six years before 
the complaint  was made, and they suggested  Mr and Mrs L ought to have known more  than 
three years before they complained.
An ombudsman considered the issue of jurisdiction and issued a decision that the case  was 
something that we were  able to deal with. She explained that the advice provided in 2009, 
2010 and 2011 were  given more than six years  before the complaint was made.  So she 
considered whether Mr L ought reasonably to have known he had cause to complain more  
than three  years before he did. And the ombudsman couldnt identify any event  that ought to 
have given Mr L that cause. 
Our investigator then looked into the merits of Mr Ls complaint and gave their view.  But True 
Bearing didnt  agree with our investigators opinion. They didnt agree that we should  be 
dealing with Mr and Mrs Ls complaints separately, as the advice they provided was 
addressed to them both and considered their joint financial positions. True Bearing  also 
reiterated their earlier  view that the complaint  Mr L made, specifically  their advice in 2011 
was brought too late for us to consider. So asked that the issue  of jurisdiction again be 
considered. They believe that the fact that Mr L had concerns about the performance of the 
fund and therefore whether to continue to drawdown  on his pension  in 2013 should  have 
been a trigger  to Mr L that he had cause to complain. Because  True Bearing didnt agree 
with our investigator the case was referred  for an ombudsman decision.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  to let them know  my view and give them  the 
opportunity to respond.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was satisfied that this case  had been  made  in 
time, and that the jurisdiction decision was still correct. And I explained why I agreed with our 
investigator that the advice to transfer  to the SIPP was suitable. But I explained that I didnt 
think that the original  advice  to take an income by drawdown was unsuitable. I thought  that it 
met the needs  of Mr and Mrs L at that stage of their retirement. True Bearing showed fact 
find and suitability reports that indicated an understanding of Mr and Mrs Ls income 
requirements. I thought  that the suitability  reports at all stages explained the options and 
satisfied me that annuities  had always been considered as an alternative. Ultimately, once 
the pension commencement lump  sum was taken  to cover the £100,000 debt, the annuities  
that could be purchased  with the remaining fund were smaller than the income Mr and Mrs L 
seem to have wanted. I explained that the report identified the potential long term impact on 
Mr and Mrs Ls pension income,  explaining that they understood theyd most likely have a 
reduced income requirement in the future.  And they had other  assets that could fund their 
retirement at that stage.  True Bearings subsequent recommendation to take out a fixed term 
annuity was also a suitable way to achieve the same objective, but in a way that reduced 
Mr Ls exposure to investment risk at that time.
Ref: DRN80735953Response to my provisional decision
True Bearing offered  no further comment following my provisional  decision. Including on the 
issue of this case being within our jurisdiction to deal with.
Mr L and Mrs L responded in detail and Im grateful for the time they took to go through  and 
consider the points that I made. Id like to assure  them that Ive considered their response  in 
detail but summarise here what I consider  to be the main objections:
that the transfer of their pensions to the SIPPs meant higher fees
that the income they took in drawdown  in 2010/11 wasnt  based on what  they needed 
but rather what they were advised to take
that they werent shown quotes  for joint life annuities, and that had True Bearing 
recommended that, they would have taken  that advice
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive come to decision that True 
Bearing havent done anything wrong. Ill explain why by addressing  the advice True Bearing  
provided in chronological order.
Advice provided in 2009
The advice provided at this stage appears  to have been done in preparation  for Mr L taking 
his pension within the next couple of years. As such it was a suitable  time to start planning. It 
was likely that Mr L was going to need  to take benefits from his pension  in the near future. 
But the report indicated  that Mr L was still receiving  a salary in the region of £80,000 and 
showed an expectation that there would be an ongoing income  from their family business 
that would  still be run by Mr and Mrs Ls son.
The recommendation report indicated the benefits  of the existing  schemes in broad terms. A 
recommendation was made to transfer both of his pensions to a SIPP.  Transferring 
consolidated Mr Ls benefits and made it more straightforward in setting up an agreed 
investment strategy. The recommendation report indicates Mr and Mrs Ls disappointment 
with the performance  and costs of the SSAS,  and the movement to the SIPP addressed  that 
concern.
The report  indicated that by transferring to the SIPP the overall cost would be lower. Mr L 
has specifically challenged this point. But Ive looked closely at the fees structure and dont 
think Mr L is correct.  The SSAS had an annual maintenance fee of £1000 plus a fee of 1% of 
the fund value each year. Mr L was also paying a fee of 1% a year on his second  personal 
pension. In comparison the cost of the SIPP platform was an annual charge of £250 (plus 
VAT). There was an exit fee of £150 payable to the SSAS on leaving and a setup fee of 
£150 to start the SIPP. But overall  the costs of the SIPP were potentially  lower, although 
there were other charges  based on activities performed within the SIPP.
Mr L has suggested that there was a 1.5% annual charge on the SIPP  but this isnt right.  The 
suitability report refers  separately to recommended funds, with the Pennine Pathfinder  fund 
charging an annual  fee of 1.5%. Which is a cost that would be incurred only on any sums 
invested into that fund. The suitability report indicates that the question of the higher charge 
for this fund were discussed. And accepted  as part of the cost of having access  to the 
Ref: DRN80735954management expertise.  I would  also highlight  that some of the pension value was placed in 
a Building Society,  which would have attracted no additional annual management fee. So 
overall, I dont think the evidence  shows  that the SIPP was a more expensive platform 
because of charges.  So I think it was more  likely  than not a suitable transfer to recommend 
for Mr L.
Advice provided in 2010
In April 2010 True Bearing provided  further  written  advice  to Mr and Mrs L. At that point the 
cash transferred to his SIPP had yet to be invested. True Bearings recommendation letter  
indicated that Mr and Mrs L were no longer receiving income from their business.  The 
household income consisted of the state pension that Mrs L was receiving.  Mr L was using 
his savings in order to meet his monthly expenditure which was estimated to be about 
£2,500.
Mr L was again  assessed as having  a cautious attitude to risk. True Bearing completed a 
questionnaire to come to this conclusion which I think was a fair assessment. And Mr Ls 
circumstances at this stage were such that his capacity for loss on this pension were  most 
likely to be quite low. He wasnt in a position to build an alternative pension,  and this pension 
would soon need to provide an income.
Notes provided by True Bearing from the time indicate that Mr and Mrs L had assets 
including a house worth  roughly £275,000 and a holiday apartment overseas worth  about 
£150,000. They also had savings of about  £52,000,  an endowment policy set to mature  in 
August valued  about £15,000  and he would  be in receipt of his state pension by September.
True Bearing recommended  the following investments, which Mr L accepted:
£100,000 in an open ended investment  company (OEIC)
£50,000 in a with profits fund
£50,000 in a building society one year fixed rate bond (interest  rate 3.15%)
£120,000 in a building  society 60 day notice account (interest  rate 2.65%)
remainder  in the SIPP cash account
The OEIC that was selected was the Pennine  Pathfinder  Fund and was classified as being a 
cautious investment  so was a suitable  choice for Mr L. Similarly, the with profits  fund was a 
suitable product  for Mr Ls aims. The inclusion of the building  society  savings accounts  
provided a safe place  for a large  part of Mr Ls money without tying  it up for a long period.  It 
afforded reasonable interest and a way to allow for the recommended drawdown strategy. 
All told I think that the investment  strategy  was suitable for Mr Ls cautious  attitude to risk.
True Bearing recommended  a strategy  of drawdowns but that recommendation wasnt  
followed at that stage.
Advice provided in 2011
In March of 2011  True Bearing provided Mr and Mrs L with further advice about how to take 
pension incomes.  Their family business was no longer trading and True Bearing  listed  one of 
their financial  objectives was raising £100,000  to pay an outstanding business  debt. The 
other immediate objective  was to find out if they could generate a net income of £25,000 
from their combined pension funds to supplement  their income. This is clearly set out in the 
objectives so I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for True Bearing  to establish if it 
Ref: DRN80735955could be achieved with the pension available to Mr and Mrs L.
True Bearings recommendation made it clear that the option of selling  Mr and Mrs Ls 
holiday property was discussed. And it would  likely  have provided the funds necessary to 
meet the £100,000 debt without Mr L having  to take the tax-free cash  from his SIPP.  But the 
report highlights that Mr and Mrs L didnt want to part with it. And I can understand that. It 
was an important lifestyle consideration  for Mr and Mrs L. So I think  its more likely  than not 
that Mr and Mrs L didnt  want  to take that route at that time. The idea that the holiday 
property could be retained and used in the early part of his retirement, then sold to access  
the equity in it later wasnt unreasonable. With access to sufficient tax free cash  from their 
pensions, selling their holiday  home  was unlikely  to be an attractive option.
Mr L had about  £330,000  in his SIPP at this point.  True Bearing recommended  that Mr L 
withdraw the maximum tax free cash of £82,500. Whilst that wouldnt be enough to pay the 
£100,000 debt, Mrs L was also recommended to take her maximum tax free cash. After 
repaying the £100,000  debt, the recommendation was that the surplus  was placed into ISAs  
over the next two financial years.  True Bearing  recommended that Mr L then take a 
drawdown income from his SIPP. 
The recommendation indicated that the maximum drawdown that Mr L would then be able to 
take was £12,474 a year. But I dont  think this was accurate. Mr L went  on to take a 
drawdown income of about £16,500  from his SIPP  after taking his tax free cash. So I think 
he understood that he had the flexibility to choose  the level of drawdown income he thought  
he needed.
The maximum amount allowed in drawdown  is governed by tables published by the 
Government Actuarys Department (GAD). And the amount  allowed relates to the Gilt Index 
Yields and the consumers  age. It is revisited every  five years  in drawdown, and changes  in 
Gilt Yields can increase  or reduce the maximum drawdown allowed. This prevents 
drawdown income being taken at a rate which would exhaust funds too quickly.  The Gilt 
Yield index  in 2011 was around 4%, and I think that the GAD tables indicate  that Mr L would 
have had a maximum drawdown  of around £19,000.  So Mr L wasnt taking the maximum 
drawdown available.  
True Bearing indicated that investment returns of 5.4% would be needed in order  to provide 
the same  level of income up to 70 and still buy a similar annuity at that point. They  didnt 
provide any comment on whether that was achievable or not though  with their recommended 
investments. Mr L was considered to be a cautious  risk investor, but not entirely  risk averse. 
He was open to the idea of generating some  investment returns.  So the strategy  of taking a 
drawdown income allowed for the potential for investment returns on his pension fund.
Still, taking  that income level in drawdown  would deplete Mr Ls pension fund meaning  he 
would have a smaller  pension in the future. But the maximum drawdown income would 
reduce in line with the GAD  tables  if the fund depleted to allow  for this. True Bearings 
recommendation provided a legitimate way for Mr L to access an income  that more likely  
than not met his requirements at the time. And the alternative of taking an annuity was less 
likely to meet his needs. This recommendation was also made  based  on an understanding  
that Mr Ls income requirements  would reduce in the future. 
At the time this drawdown income  was recommended,  Mr and Mrs L would have had 
£40,000 in investment ISAs (from the money left over from the tax free lump  sum)  and 
around £37,500 in cash.  They also had a holiday property valued  at £150,000 that they 
Ref: DRN80735956intended to sell in the future. I think this level of cash and assets gave them the capacity to 
tolerate the decrease in their pension that may have come about  in drawdown. So I think  
True Bearings recommendation at this point was suitable for their requirements. 
Advice provided in 2013
True Bearing provided Mr and Mrs L with further  retirement planning advice in March  2013. 
Their recommendation  letter summarised  Mr Ls current position and objectives.  They  said 
you are enjoying your retirement and it was your intention to continue  to draw  a higher level 
of income from your SIPP until you attain age 75 at which point you expect  your expenditure 
to significantly reduce as you do not expect to be travelling abroad as much.  You explained 
to me that the initial advice had been  to draw the maximum allowable  draw  from your SIPP 
for a 10 year period from the outset, at which point you would be looking to sell a holiday 
apartment  and look to draw on monies  obtained  from the sale and other investments and 
cash holdings for the remainder of your retirement. This was not inconsistent  with the earlier  
objectives and showed an understanding of the rationale for the previous recommendations 
made. 
There was a further change in circumstances  at this point as Mr and Mrs L had put their 
home on the market  with the intention of downsizing to an apartment. Which was likely to 
release equity held in property.
The report  identified that Mr L had been  taking  £16,500 a year in drawdown income. True 
Bearings adviser had reviewed Mr Ls attitude to risk, identifying it was reducing. And the 
amount of risk that Mr L was prepared to accept meant that the kinds  of investment returns 
he was likely to make would deplete the capital  in his SIPP. At this point, I think  the reducing 
attitude to risk meant it was appropriate  that the adviser considered alternatives for Mr L.
As before, the option of an annuity  was discussed. The recommendation report  provided an 
illustration of an enhanced annuity for Mr L of £11,568. This illustration was for a joint life 
annuity, which was the type of annuity  that Mr L would have wanted. This would have 
caused a drop in the income for Mr L at that point. And with the illustrated equivalent annuity 
for Mrs L of £8,019  left them short of their target income of £25,000 a year net from their 
pensions. But would  have  provided a pension guaranteed for life. 
True Bearings adviser explored the option  of a fixed term annuity. This was a product that 
provided a guaranteed level of income  for a set period, leaving a guaranteed maturity  value 
at the end. True Bearing recommended a fixed term annuity of £16,500 to age 75, with a 
guaranteed maturity value of £127,269. And they indicated that could then purchase  an 
annuity of £8,269 at age 75 with 100% spouse  benefit. And they set this out in a table with a 
clear comparison  of a conventional  annuity  providing £11,502  which  was only slightly less 
than the enhanced annuity figure  also provided.  I think this information  was represented in 
as clear a way as it could  have been. I think it should have been  very clear to Mr L that his 
choices involved taking  a smaller income that was guaranteed  for life, or a larger  income for 
a period, reducing from age 75. Given Mr and Mrs Ls overall objectives, and the access to 
other savings and assets to support them later in life when their anticipated  expenditure 
would reduce. I dont  think that the recommendation was unsuitable. It provided Mr L the 
larger income in the short  term that the drawdown  afforded him but removed investment 
risks that he had with the drawdown  strategy.
In August  2013  True Bearing  wrote  to Mr and Mrs L again, with an addendum to their 
recommendation in March  2013. It explained that when the recommendation was presented 
Ref: DRN80735957they also discussed quotes for a fixed term annuity to ages 78 and 80, and how that would 
affect future  income. The addendum  documented that Mr L decided  to take a fixed annuity of 
£16,500 until age 78 instead of the earlier recommended term. The addendum provided 
clear information that this would reduce the guaranteed maturity value to £109,962  and 
reduced the potential annuity at 78 to £8,122.80.
Mr L accepted  True Bearings recommendation and took the fixed term annuity. And I think  
that True Bearing made it clear to Mr L that in doing so his future income  would have been 
lower as a result. I think  that the advice to take the pension in this way was, more  likely than 
not, suitable. The options of annuities were presented in a clear  way. But I dont think  they 
met Mr and Mrs Ls objectives. They didnt meet their income requirements and would have 
meant them utilising  their savings in order to maintain the lifestyle  they wanted. The advice  
given was consistent with the objective to retain and use the overseas holiday home until 
age 78. At which point  it could be sold when Mr and Mrs Ls income  would reduce.
For the above reasons, I dont think that the advice True Bearing gave Mr L was unsuitable.  
And I dont  think that it has caused  him financial loss. True Bearing have demonstrated  that 
they endeavoured to understand Mr Ls circumstances and requirements.  He had options in 
the way that he took his pension benefits. But his fund size didnt allow for an annuity  of the 
size he wanted  from the outset. True Bearing  were  always faced with the option  of making a 
recommendation that provided a guaranteed  income  that was smaller  than needed,  or the 
required income in the short to medium term but less in the future.  And given Mr Ls overall 
circumstances at the time, I think that the advice they gave was a fair and reasonable way to 
meet his needs.  And was clearly explained.
I understand that Mr L will be facing a drop in his income when hes 78. But I dont agree that 
this is an unexpected consequence  of the recommendation  he was given. It was always an 
accepted part of his retirement  planning,  and at the time True Bearing provided the advice, 
was a fair and reasonable compromise  to achieve Mr Ls stated objectives overall.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mr Ls complaint against True Bearing  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8073595