K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money lost from his business  account, 
when he fell victim to a scam.
background
In September  2018 Mr K fell victim to a scam.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred  as follows.
On 8 September 2018 Mr K received  an invoice that required  settlement from his business 
account. Mr K responded to the email, saying that he would settle the invoice on Monday 10 
September 2018. 
Mr K received a further email on 10 September 2018, explaining that due to transferring 
issues the payment  needed to be paid to an alternative bank account. Mr K asked for the 
account details  to be sent to him, shortly  after this he received an email containing the 
required account details  for Mr K to make the payment that was due.
Mr K made the payment  on 10 September 2018, using his online banking.  The sum of 
£5,239.80 was sent to the sort code and account  number provided  in the email. Mr K has 
told us he also included  the payee  name when making the payment. 
However, Mr K heard some days later that the email account had been compromised, and 
the payment details  hed been sent to his email  account were not legitimate and Mr K had 
made the payment to a fraudster. 
Mr K contacted Lloyds  on 24 September 2018 to report the scam. Lloyds contacted  the bank 
that had received the funds on the same day. However, the receiving bank responded to say 
that no funds remained  to be recovered.
Mr K complained to Lloyds. In summary he said Lloyds hadnt exercised  its duty of care,  the 
beneficiary name used  was different  to the account  the money went  to and the payment had 
been executed due to inherent flaws.  Lloyds issued its final response on 8 July 2019. It said 
there had been  no intervention when the payment was made. It said it had tried to retrieve  
the funds, but no funds  remained. It added that it was not obliged  to check  the account  name  
on the payment  and while it was sorry for the situation Mr K was in, it did not think there  was 
a bank error. 
 
Mr K then brought  the complaint to our service and one of our investigators  looked into 
things. Our investigator didnt think Lloyds could have done  anything to prevent the scam  
he didnt consider the payment Mr K made  was particularly out of the ordinary, or so unusual  
that it should have raised  Lloyds suspicions. And he didnt think  Lloyds missed  an 
opportunity to identify  the payment could potentially have been in relation  to a scam. Our 
investigator said there was no requirement  for Lloyds  to consider the beneficiary name when 
the payment was made. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think  the outcome was fair, as the bank 
never warned that the account where funds went to didnt mention the title in his payment 
instructions. He said banks are doing  this now and had they done at the time of the payment  
Ref: DRN82010862it must  have  stopped  the payment. He added that bank rules should  be in place to protect  
funds.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr K, and I can understand entirely  why he feels so 
strongly that this money should be returned  to him. But having thought very carefully  about  
Lloyds actions, I think it did act fairly  and reasonably  in allowing the transfer to leave Mr Ks 
business account. I also dont think it could have  done any more than it did to try and recover 
the money.  
So having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I do appreciate  
how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly  say Lloyds should 
reimburse him the £5,239.80 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6); and
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers
Ref: DRN82010863from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice, which
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
In this case, I need to decide  whether Lloyds acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with 
Mr K, when Mr K made a transfer  to a fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or whether 
it should have  done more  than it did.
Mr K has accepted that he authorised  the transfer  of £5,239.80 himself. Because  of this, 
Lloyds had an obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations  in which it 
should reasonably have  had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as 
Ive explained,  I consider  that as a matter of good  practice Lloyds shouldve  been on the 
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
Having reviewed the activity on Mr Ks business  account statements, from which  the 
payment was made, for the six-month period leading up to the scam, I dont think  the 
payment Mr K made to the fraudster was particularly unusual or out of character  in 
comparison to the normal account activity. There are several other transactions, including 
faster payments,  for amounts in excess  of £1,000 (ranging up to £10,000)  and the payment 
didnt clear an unusual  amount  off of the account balance. So I dont think a faster  payment 
for £5,239.80 was particularly out of character or unusual and Im not persuaded Lloyds 
acted unreasonably in not making enquiries about  the payment before processing it. 
Ive thought about what Mr K has said about the receiving bank account  being in a different 
name, to what Mr K had indicated on his payment instruction. 
At the time the payment was made, the relevant  regulations   the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique 
identifiers (typically the account number and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account
number and sort code  instructed by the payer. There was no regulatory requirement  for 
Lloyds to check the beneficiary  account any further. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds  didnt 
follow Mr Ks instruction when it sent the payment to the account number and sort code 
provided, and I am not persuaded it should  have  done more  to check the beneficiary  name  
in the circumstances of this payment.
Ive gone on to think about  whether Lloyds did what it shouldve  done once Mr K reported to 
it that hed been the victim  of a scam.  Ive looked into the attempts Lloyds made to recover  
Ref: DRN82010864the money, once Mr K reported  the scam.  In order for me to be able to fairly ask Lloyds to 
refund the money to Mr K, I need to be satisfied  that Lloyds should  have  acted sooner in 
trying to recover the money.  And if I dont  think it acted  soon  enough, I need  to decide 
whether it made any difference.
In this case I can see Lloyds raised the claim against the receiving  bank on the same day   
Mr K reported the scam to it. But the response from the receiving  bank was that the money 
had already left the receiving account. So, Lloyds wasnt able to recover  the money  Mr K 
had paid the fraudster, because it had already  been removed from the recipients account. 
From what  Ive seen, Im persuaded Lloyds did what it should  have  and didnt miss an 
opportunity to recover any funds. 
Its very unfortunate  Mr K has lost this money to what  is a cruel and sophisticated scam, and 
I understand the whole  experience will have been frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Lloyds  should  have done  more to prevent him 
losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Lloyds  to refund the loss.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint against  
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2021.
Stephen Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8201086