K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that Secure Trust Bank  Plc (trading as Moneyway) applied  charges to his 
account following  incorrect information being  provided about him selling the vehicle he had 
acquired through a hire purchase  agreement (HPA). He says he didnt breach his agreement 
and this has been accepted and so he shouldnt be liable for charges  relating to this issue.
Background
Mr J entered into a HPA with Moneyway  in September  2017. In October 2018, he says he 
received a call asking if he still had the vehicle. He says he confirmed he did. He says he 
was asked to provide  proof he still had the vehicle as information had been provided to 
suggest he didnt.  Mr J says he confirmed again  he still had the vehicle and asked that any 
request for proof was provided in writing as he thought the call suspicious. He says he didnt 
receive a letter requesting  the evidence.
In January 2019, Mr J say she was called by someone working for Moneyway saying they 
had been instructed to collect the vehicle as Moneyways records showed  Mr J had sold it. 
Mr J confirmed he had not sold the vehicle. In February he says a person arrived at his 
house to collect  the vehicle. At this point  he showed the person the vehicle  and a copy  of the 
V5 document which was photographed. It was accepted that Mr J had always  been in 
possession of the vehicle. 
Mr J says that he has asked for a copy of the information provided saying the vehicle had 
changed ownership but this has never  been  provided. He says that as he was never  in 
breach of his contract and didnt do anything  wrong, he shouldnt  be liable for the charges 
applied to his account in regard to this issue.
Moneyway says that on 31 October 2018, it received notification  from a third party that the 
vehicles registered  keeper had changed. It says that as Mr J had acquired the vehicle under 
a HPA the vehicle had to remain in his possession. It says a change in registered keeper 
could suggest  the vehicle  (which is Moneyways asset) is at risk. Moneyway says it tried to 
call Mr J without  success and sent him a message asking him to call it. It says Mr J got in 
touch and said there hadnt  been  a change in the registered keeper. It says it asked Mr J to 
provide a copy of the V5c document within five weeks  and without this it would assume  the 
vehicles keeper had changed  and Mr J would be issued with a notice saying he had 
breached his agreement. 
Moneyway says that Mr J didnt provide  a copy of the V5c and that it tried to contact  him 
several times between  10 and 14 December without success. It issued a default notice and 
termination notice  on 17 December 2018  requiring Mr J to remedy  the situation by 
27 December. In January  2019, it says it instructed a recovery  agent  to attend Mr Js 
property and confirm  if the vehicle remained in Mr Js name. 
The recovery agent confirmed that the vehicle remained in Mr Js name  and Moneyway 
received photographs of the V5c document. It says that the £264  charge added to Mr Js 
account was the cost of instructing the recovery agent. It says that it acted reasonably  by 
contacting Mr J when  it was told there had been a change  in the registered keeper of the 
vehicle and that because Mr J didnt provide the evidence requested  or respond  to its 
contact it was reasonable that further  action was taken. As this resulted in costs it says it is 
reasonable Mr J is liable for these.
Ref: DRN81407472Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He acknowledged that Moneyway was provided  
with incorrect information but didnt think it had acted unreasonably by contacting  Mr J about 
this. He thought  the request made  by Moneyway  for a copy  of the V5c document  was 
reasonable and said that had Mr J provided this the issue  would have been  resolved at that 
time. He said that because Mr J didnt  engage  with Moneyway further costs were incurred 
and he thought it fair that Moneyway held Mr J liable for these.
Mr J didnt accept our adjudicators view.  He said that the incorrect information provided 
regarding the ownership of his car had not been disclosed to him. He also said it was 
insufficient for Moneyway to request the proof  by phone as he was suspicious of this request 
which was why he asked  the request be made in writing. He said this wasnt provided. He 
also said he didnt receive a termination notice  in December and that had this arrived  he 
would have taken  action at that time.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr J entered into a HPA to acquire  a vehicle. The terms  of the HPA set out that Mr J isnt 
allowed to sell the vehicle.  In this case Mr J has shown that he has remained in possession 
of the vehicle and therefore a breach of his HPA didnt  happen.  This has been accepted by 
Moneyway.
The outstanding issue is whether it is fair that Mr J is liable for the £264 charge incurred due 
to recovery agents  being instructed to confirm  that Mr J was still the registered keeper of the 
vehicle.
I have looked  through  the information provided. Moneyway was notified  on 31 October  2018  
that the registered keeper  of the vehicle had changed. Given this information  I find it 
reasonable that Moneyway tried to contact Mr J to confirm the situation  with the vehicle. The 
vehicle was acquired under a HPA and so remained the asset of Moneyway  and so it was 
reasonable it would want to confirm  who had possession. An attempt was made  to contact 
Mr J and a message left after which Mr J returned  the call. I have listened  to the call and 
Mr J confirms he is still the registered  keeper of the vehicle.
Mr J is asked to send  a copy of the V5c document  which he says he shouldnt have to do. 
He is told he can do this by email or post and has five weeks  in which to send it. Mr J says 
he will try but makes  it clear that he doesnt feel it his responsibility. Moneyways adviser 
explains that if the document isnt received within five weeks then a breach of contract  will be 
issued. While Mr J isnt happy  with the information  provided on the call I find that the adviser 
was clear in explaining what would happen if he didnt  send through the information.
Mr J has since  said that he asked for the document request to be made  by writing due to his 
concerns about  the authenticity of the call. However, this wasnt  mentioned  in the call I have 
listened to. Mr J doesnt raise concerns about the call being a scam and I find it reasonable 
to accept that following the call, Moneyway would have expected Mr J to provide a copy of 
the requested  V5c. 
Ref: DRN81407473Mr J didnt provide the document as requested  and so I do not find it unreasonable  that 
Moneyway took further action. I have seen  a copy of an enforcement and termination  letter.  
This is addressed to Mr J and gives him until 27 December to remedy  any breach, in this 
case the issue regarding  Mr Js possession  of the vehicle. Mr J says he didnt receive  this 
and so couldnt take action. However the letter is correctly  addressed  and, on balance, I find 
it reasonable to accept  this was sent.
So while I accept that the information  Moneyway  received about Mr J no longer being  the 
registered keeper  of the vehicle was incorrect  and that Mr J didnt breach his HPA, I also find 
that due to Mr J not responding  to Moneyways request costs were incurred. Had Mr J 
provided the copy of the V5c within the five weeks from the first call or responded sooner in 
response the termination notice these costs could have been avoided.  Given this I do not 
find that Moneyways actions were unreasonable and as costs were  incurred I find it 
reasonable that Mr J remains liable for these.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8140747