K820x#14complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Unum Ltd declined a claim under  her group income protection  
insurance policy, and the service  she received  when  turning down that claim.
background
In June 2018, following some issues at work, Miss A became absent and was signed off by 
her GP with a stress related problem. She had an income protection  policy  (the policy) 
through her employer,  which  can pay out a portion of her income after shes  been off work  
for 26 weeks (the deferred period).  
Miss A hadnt been able to return to work  by December 2018 and a claim was made to 
Unum under  the policy. By the time the deferred period had expired, Miss A had also 
undergone surgery  to remove fibroids. She then spent a number of weeks  recovering, and 
undergoing physiotherapy.
Unum didnt think Miss A was absent  from work due to an illness or injury throughout the 
entirety of the deferred period, so declined the claim. After considering further evidence, 
Unum confirmed that its original decision to decline  the claim stood. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagrees and has raised several points  
in reply. She said certain policy terms were unfair as they were  too wide and made  it almost  
impossible to claim the benefit. She also said that the events leading  up to the surgery she 
had in early December 2018, and the recovery from the surgery itself,  meant  she was 
incapacitated and unable to attend work.  Miss As complaint  has now been  passed to me to 
look at everything afresh and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Before  I explain why, I want to assure Miss A that my 
decision is in no way intended to be dismissive of the health  issues shes suffered. But for 
the reasons below, I dont think Unum has unfairly  declined her claim.
The policy pays out a proportion of a members  income if they become incapacitated and are 
unable to work.
Under the policy a member is incapacitated if they are: 
 unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial  duties of 
the insured occupation and are not performing any occupation
Ive taken into account what Miss A says about this term being unfair  and unreasonable  but I 
dont agree. That sort of term is not uncommon in income protection policies,  and generally  
we dont think its unfair.
Insured occupation  means:
the trade, profession or general role that the member was actively undertaking for (the 
employer) immediately  prior to incapacity
Ref: DRN82541002The focus is therefore on whether Miss A is unable to perform the role she was doing 
because of illness or injury. Im not a medical  expert so Ive relied on the evidence available 
to me when considering whether Unum has unfairly  declined Miss As claim. 
I know Unum  has disputed  whether Miss A had an illness  its concluded that the stress  
Miss A suffered from was not a pervasive mental  health condition and her absence  was due 
to perceived workplace issues. Illness isnt defined under  the policy but in this particular 
case, I dont need to decide whether Miss A had an illness or not. Thats because Im 
satisfied the crux of the issue is whether Miss A couldve performed her role elsewhere  
during the deferred period   and I think she probably  couldve. So Im satisfied Unum  has 
reasonably concluded that Miss A wasnt incapacitated  during the entirety of the deferred 
period. Ill explain  why.
stress and anxiety:
The large majority of the medical evidence refers to Miss As stress  and anxiety being  
caused by work related issues.  
Theres an entry in her GP records dated 11 June 2018 (when Miss A was first signed off work  
sick with a stress related problem)  reflecting  that Miss A is having  stress at work recently and 
needs time off and an entry from later that month  reads: stress and anxiety started  three 
weeks before  and this was triggered by work, manager not understanding her / listening . 
There are also two entries in September 2018  which reflect Miss A had been  bullied at work 
by her manager and required  more time off work,  so her grievance could be resolved
It also looks like Miss As stress and anxiety increased around  times she was in contact with 
her employer. This is supported by an entry in her GP records  from July 2018 which says: 
got another message from HR to have another occupational health assessment and since 
then she has been feeling more anxious / stressed. Feels stressed following email from 
work. Feels she needs some time out of work to fully recover
A report from a consultant  clinical psychologist dated October 2018 also supports that work 
related issues were behind Miss As absence from work. It says Miss A showed  symptoms of 
severe depression  and anxiety, including chest  pain and panic attacks and the psychologist  
attributes those symptoms to Miss A being unhappy  at work. It goes on to say that Miss A 
had never  been  signed  off from work before and despite other  traumatic experiences  
difficulties at work, and how they have been  dealt with, have been her most  stressful 
experience. She said it left her deflated, broken and very depressed being unable  to 
work. The report recommended that Miss A changed departments.
So taking all of the evidence into account Im satisfied  that during the deferred period which 
started in June 2018, the barrier to Miss As return to work was the work related issues  shed 
alleged. I think Miss A couldve worked  elsewhere  as the underlying issues she says she 
was experiencing with her employer are unlikely  to have existed if she was doing  the same  
role at a different employer. And, although  Miss A had been  signed off work by her GP, and 
not capable of attending her specific workplace, I dont think she was unable  to perform  the 
role she was doing more generally for the entirety  of the deferred period.
uterine fibroids  and migraine:
Miss A says she had further illnesses that prevented her from working; uterine fibroids which  
she underwent surgery  for in early December 2018  and frequent  migraines.    
Ref: DRN82541003Ive seen a letter from her consultant gynaecologist  oncologist dated 28 September 2018 
which reports Miss A as having  irregular  bleeding and mild cramps since  June 2018. 
Although one of the medical  certificates from August 2018 does refer to Miss A being signed 
off from work due to an irregular menstrual cycle, from the other sick notes either  side of this 
date, it doesnt  look like this was the underlying reason why Miss A was unable to work  
during the majority of the deferred  period.
It wasnt until October 2018 that Miss As GP said Miss A was unfit for work due to uterine 
fibroids and a stress related  problem, and shes signed off until the end of December 2018 
for these  reasons.  However, theres  very little in her GP notes - or the other  medical 
evidence - from around that time supporting that she wouldve been  unable to work up to the 
date of surgery which was due to take place in early December 2018  had she not already 
been off sick due to work related stress.
Vocational rehabilitation and occupational health reports dated  October  and November 2018 
support that the main reason for her not being  at work was stress  related symptoms due to a 
breakdown in the working relationship with management and that work issues have been  
building for a year which became too much for her to cope with. And although  the 
consultant clinical  psychologist report dated  October 2018, referred to above,  mentions that 
Miss A was under investigation due to irregular bleeding - and had recently  been  diagnosed 
with fibroids - theres  no mention of this contributing to Miss As stress or anxiety; this is 
attributed to workplace  issues.  
The occupational health report dated November  2018 also says Miss A had reported some 
ongoing genealogical  issues during the meeting and that she was awaiting surgery, following 
which she may need up to six weeks for recovery. However, it doesnt  reflect  that Miss A reported 
that any issues surrounding her impending surgery had contributed to the stress or anxiety shed 
been suffering  or that there were any physical  symptoms preventing her from work. 
So I dont  think theres sufficient evidence that any symptoms  relating to the fibroids  or the 
recovery from surgery prevented her from working  throughout an entire period of 26 weeks. 
I note that in February 2019, her gynaecology clinical nurse reports that Miss A had 
experienced some stress as a result of the psychological impact  of the investigation into the 
fibroids and surgery  to remove them - as Miss A had to deal with a potential cancer 
diagnosis and possibility  of infertility. However,  the nurse isnt a psychologist and so Ive 
placed less weight on what she says about  the psychological impact  this has had on Miss A 
 particularly leading  up to the surgery. 
Ive also taken into account that Miss A reported  to occupational health in November 2018 
that shed been suffering with migraines almost daily for the past five months  so from 
around the start of the deferral period. She says this can be very debilitating. There  is 
reference to Miss A having migraines in various medical records  leading  up the time she was 
absent from work and during the deferred  period  and that they were  lasting  longer  and 
becoming more frequent - but its not put forward as a reason for Miss A being unable to 
work on her medical certificates. Further, theres  nothing in her medical notes  that suggests 
she was unable to work  because  of her migraines during a continuous period of 26 weeks.
Ref: DRN82541004service:
Miss A is unhappy with the content of the letter  declining her claim and the amount of time it 
took Unum to respond to her appeal. I dont think the letter  contains  anything inappropriate; it 
sets out the reasons why her claim has been  declined. And although it did take some time 
for Unum to respond to her appeal,  it looks like it was actively  investigating her appeal points 
and had requested further information  from her GP which  it then considered. I dont think 
that was unreasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss As complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8254100