K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained that he received incorrect advice when he rang the tax and legal 
advice helpline  number  provided as part of his legal expenses insurance  policy,  which is 
underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
For the sake of clarity when I make reference  to Aviva I mean both the underwriter itself and
any agents working on its behalf.
background
Mr F has a home insurance policy  with Aviva that includes legal expenses  cover.  Under this 
section of his policy  Mr F is entitled to phone a helpline number with any questions  he may 
have about tax or legal  matters. 
Mr F contacted the tax and legal helpline to ask for advice regarding  the application of 
inheritance tax on gifts his father  had made prior to passing away.  Mr F was the executor of 
the will and wanted  to ensure he was administering the will in the fairest way possible. 
The question Mr F asked  the helpline was in relation  to a property his father had gifted to his 
sister a year before he passed  away. Mr F wanted to know  if his sister was personally 
responsible for paying the inheritance tax or whether or not liability was with the estate.
Mr F made a number of phone calls relating to this question  between February 2017 and 
September 2017. He says he was given  incorrect  information in some  of these calls, which 
he then acted on, and which has resulted in the breakdown of the relationship  between  him 
and his sister. In addition  to this Mr F is also upset that following  these  calls Aviva has 
advised him that it will no longer provide him with any advice linked to either his father or 
mothers estates as he believes  this will put him at a disadvantage and cost him a lot of 
money in legal fees. 
Aviva has said that the representatives that spoke  to Mr F gave him correct information  
based on what was explained to them in each  individual call. It has said the helpline  advisers  
give limited advice based on the information  they get over the phone. They  dont review  any 
paper work or documents and the helpline is not a replacement for a solicitor. It has said that 
due to the complex nature of the issues Mr F is having with his late parents estates it isnt 
appropriate for its representatives to continue advising Mr F about these matters. It has 
suggested he needs to seek direct legal  advice instead. It has said it is happy to provide  
Mr F with advice  regarding any other  legal  concern  he may have, separate  to the estates. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Fs complaint already. He found  that the information 
he was given on the phone was correct  and that it was reasonable for Aviva  to refuse to 
answer any more questions regarding the estates of Mr Fs late parents. Mr F disagreed  with 
the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint and so its been 
passed to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not going to uphold it 
and Id like to explain why.
Ref: DRN85916042The policy document provided to Mr F states:
We will give you confidential advice over the telephone on any personal legal matter under 
the laws of England  and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the 
Channel Islands.
We will tell you what your legal rights are, what course of action is available  to you, if that 
action can be taken  by you or whether you need  to consult with a lawyer. We will also tell 
you whether your issue could be covered under the Legal services insurance.
I want to assure Mr F Ive listened to all of the available  calls and based on what Ive heard I 
think its possible that the advisor  he spoke to in the first call in February may have given him 
wrong information but he did tell Mr F he needed to speak to the tax advice  line to get further 
information and check what was said was correct. In the additional calls Ive heard the 
advisors dont appear to give Mr F any incorrect information and each time he speaks to 
advisors Mr F is repeatedly  told he needs to seek additional advice from either  a tax expert 
or a solicitor.  
Helplines such as these  are not intended  to replace solicitors and should  not be treated as 
an alternative to seeking  formal  legal advice where  it is necessary. Having listened  to all of 
the available  calls I dont  think  the representatives Mr F spoke to were irresponsible in the 
advice they gave him. They also repeatedly pointed out that the issues  Mr F was dealing  
with were complex and he should speak to a solicitor directly
Having reviewed the calls I dont think that the representatives Mr F spoke to gave him 
obviously wrong advice  and I am satisfied they directed  him to seek  further advice from 
solicitors and tax experts where appropriate. So I dont think the representatives Mr F spoke 
to  did anything wrong and I dont think Aviva  needs to do anything more  in relation to this 
aspect of Mr Fs complaint. 
Aviva has said that it will no longer provide Mr F with advice on matters relating specifically 
to his parents  estates  as the type of support he needs requires full legal advice. 
Having listened  to the calls, and the questions  Mr F has asked, I can understand why Aviva  
came to this decision, and I feel it is reasonable. And, as it is still prepared to offer him 
advice in respect of unrelated legal queries he may have,  I dont think its being unfair or 
disadvantaged him in anyway.
Ref: DRN85916043The issues  involved  are complex and are important to Mr F. In particular hes said the matter 
is having a detrimental effect  on his relationship with his siblings. Given  what hes said and 
the nature  of the advice  he requires,  I think its right for Aviva  to direct Mr F to a solicitor  for 
specific advice in respect of his matter. The helpline advisors can only provide answers to 
the questions  theyve been  asked  and it may be that Mr F, through  no fault of his own, has 
not asked the correct  questions or provided  all of the relevant information for the advisors to 
consider. Engaging a solicitor, who can review  all of the relevant documents and timelines 
involved, will provide  Mr F with the help and support he need and, is in my view,  the most  
appropriate course of action. So I think Aviva  were right to direct him accordingly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8591604