K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 1987  at the same  time as taking out a secured loan. 
They applied for the secured loan and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H only for accident,  sickness,  unemployment and life  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay an amount equal to the monthly 
secured loan repayment in the event  of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £5.58  a 
month. 
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a shop manager. He has told us he was entitled to sick 
pay and redundancy pay and had a few thousand pounds  in savings they could  have used 
to repay  their secure  loan should  Mr H be unable to work. Mr H has said he had two medical 
conditions at the time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the secured loan account closed in 2003.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs H about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a secured loan is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN86884332The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1987 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after BoS sold Mr and Mrs H PPI. Prior to this there  were fewer  requirements on a business 
when selling  insurance such as this. But BoS doesnt appear to have considered Mr and Mrs 
Hs complaint any differently  it seems to me they have  considered  the sale of PPI against 
these later standards. 
So on the basis that it puts Mr and Mrs H in a more favourable position, I have taken into 
account the later industry codes of practice in considering what  I think is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN86884333Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Ref: DRN86884334did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS no longer  has a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs secured loan agreement. And this isnt 
surprising to me  things  happened a long time ago and the account has been closed for 
many years. Businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely. Mr and Mrs H havent said 
much about  what happened  either  again not surprising given the passage of time.
So given the limited evidence about an event which took place so long ago, I cant fairly  say 
that its likely  BoS misrepresented the policy as not being optional or that Mr and Mrs H 
didnt agree to take it out. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs H havent said either way. But on 
the basis that BoS says it provided  advice  and this doesnt disadvantage Mr and Mrs H in 
any way (if anything it puts them in a more favourable position) Im happy to consider this 
was an advised  sale.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. 
Notwithstanding the passage of time,  this is unsurprising  in respect of a sale during a 
meeting. The adviser likely had some  limited information about  Mr and Mrs Hs financial 
circumstances from the secured loan application  they wouldve likely completed. But there is 
no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr H would  have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet their needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest  BoS considered 
whether Mr H had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given  their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Hs finances would be put under strain if he wasnt  working 
 even allowing  for the employee  benefits  he was entitled  to as well as Mrs Hs 
income and their savings. The policy would have  helped  Mr and Mrs H manage the 
consequences were  Mr H unable to work.
Ref: DRN86884335-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs H. 
There was nothing  about Mr Hs employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr H has told 
us about two conditions he said he had in 1996  (he indicated this was the 
approximate year)  one of which hed missed one, or two weeks  work as a result.  But 
BoS evidence from a phone call it had with Mr H during its investigation of his 
complaint, records that Mr H said he didnt really  have any health issues and that 
hed never had any time off work because of his conditions.
So taking  all of the above into account,  Im not persuaded that Mr Hs conditions 
made the policy unsuitable  I dont think its likely Mr H wouldve thought and/or told 
the adviser that he might need  to claim for these  things.  There were also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr H be disabled  or unemployed 
for 90 days before they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 24 months  for each claim), the policy still provided useful 
cover given:
Mr Hs circumstances, including his employers  sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
90-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the secured loan repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs H be unable to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium 
might be.
But the limited  evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether BoS gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN86884336Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded BoS 
likely did enough to present information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mr and Mrs H all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points about  the requirements  on a business  when providing information 
in PPI sales. It suggests these points  apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. Ive 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs H suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs H. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs H suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs H would have  still taken  out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs H would  have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN86884337Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
I think its likely Mr and Mrs H had some interest  in taking out payment protection  insurance. 
But they made their decision  based  on incomplete  information, meaning what they thought 
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, theres no evidence that BoS told them the exact  premium  at the 
point Mr and Mrs H applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs H 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time or reconsidered their 
decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs H would get back in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their secured loan payment)  were significantly different to what  the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions suffered or that Mr H was 
aware of in the 12 months before the start date of the policy and which  recurred 
within 12 months of the start date;
 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own job or any similar gainful  occupation  he might reasonably be expected to 
do given his knowledge and training; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the secured loan.   
Ref: DRN86884338I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  likely shortcomings in this sale, might have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. He was eligible for its benefits  and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to them  should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr H  says he had two medical conditions 
when the PPI was taken  out, for the reasons I set out above as to why I think  the policy  was 
nevertheless suitable  for them, I dont think better information about this exclusion would 
have put them off agreeing to it. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve 
been caught by any of the other significant  exclusions. So I still think  they had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr H was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but 24 months was a longer period than Mr H would have received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 24 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly secured loan payments would have been of benefit  to them and would  
help them manage the consequences  should Mr H be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr Hs sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use, 
such as other ongoing  household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. 
The policy was suitable for them, was sufficiently  close to what its likely they thought they 
were getting  and provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr H 
was made  redundant, or unable to work through disability.  In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs H would  have taken out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN86884339Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says about  the remedy 
a court  might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.
 
For the reasons  Ive already set out I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to put 
Mr and Mrs H in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
Ref: DRN868843310my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 May 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8688433