K821x#15Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Barclays has told us that the sale took place in a branch  and that it recommended  the policy 
to Mrs P. This means it had to check if the policy was right for her. Barclays  also had to 
make sure it gave her clear enough information  so that she could decide for herself if the 
policy was right for her circumstances.
Mrs P has told us that she suffered from an ongoing medical condition which  was diagnosed 
many years before the sale of the policy. Looking at the policy terms I dont think  Mrs P 
would have been able to claim  for anything which was to do with her pre-existing medical 
condition  as its likely  it would have been  excluded. I havent seen any evidence  from 
Barclays which shows that it asked  her about her medical history at the time of the sale or 
that this significant exclusion  was made clear to her when it sold her the policy.
I think this would have  mattered to Mrs P, especially  when considering  the type of condition  
she was suffering from and the possibility of suffering from related medical problems.
It therefore follows that I dont think Mrs P would have bought the policy  if Barclays  had 
made this particular exclusion clear to Mrs P and had given her enough  information  about it. 
As a result I dont think Mrs P would have thought this policy  gave her value  for money.  So I 
think she has lost out as a result  of what Barclays did wrong.
Ref: DRN82373512What the business  should do to put things  right
Barclays should put Mrs P in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays should find out how much Mrs P would have owed when she closed her 
credit card account  if the policy  hadnt  been  added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mrs P owed when  she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made  a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what  she 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes her.
B.Barclays should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Mrs P would have 
owed when she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when Barclays works out what Mrs P would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs P paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Barclays should  also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs P paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mrs P wouldve  owed Barclays something  on her credit  card.  The interest  rate 
should be 8% a year. 
D.Barclays should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019. 
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8237351