K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from March 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Hs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. HSBC had no further comments. Mr H did make a further  
comment that I will respond to below.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H has added that he was the heir to his fathers  business and that his parents had the 
money to bail him out. But as I said in my provisional decision,  there  is a record that he had 
quite an in-depth  discussion about various  insurance products. Im satisfied that he would 
have understood  that the PPI covered  his mortgage  repayments in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. So whilst he turned  down other  types of insurance   such as 
income protection  he clearly had an interest  in covering his mortgage  repayments, in spite  
of what he may have thought about  any help he may have received from his parents. Having 
the policy would have meant  that his parents would not have  had to pay his mortgage for 
him and they could  have just given him a reduced  amount to cover his other  outgoings. 
Overall, I have  not been persuaded to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. I follows that I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88062312COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Mr H took out the PPI during  the same  meeting in which he arranged him mortgage in August  2003.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. HSBC disagree  with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr H says he didnt know about the PPI, that it wasnt discussed and that it was added  to his 
mortgage account without  his knowledge.
HSBC has provided a record  of the meeting that Mr H had with the mortgage adviser. Mr H underwent 
quite an in-depth personal financial review to establish his needs. The adviser recommended a 
number of investment and insurance  products.  However  Mr H wasnt interested  in most  of them  and it 
was noted that: You stated  that at this time your only priority was to arrange  this type of protection in 
relation to your proposed  mortgage borrowing . The evidence  suggests that there was a conversation 
about PPI and that the policy was presented as optional. And Mr H expressed an interest in the policy 
whilst declining other  forms of cover.  So it seems to me that Mr H decided to buy it, knowing that he 
didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
As HSBC  advised Mr H to buy the policy,  it needed  to ensure that it met his needs.
There is a term in the policy  document that says:
If you are self-employed  or you have  a controlling interest  in the company  which is employing you 
and you are making an unemployment  claim, you must provide proof that: you have involuntarily 
ceased trading and declared  this to the Inland  Revenue.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr H might find it more difficult to claim  for unemployment because  he 
was working for his father and so would be deemed to have a controlling interest in the company.  
There is no definition  of controlling interest, but I do not think that Mr Hs circumstances would have 
been construed as such. He was not a partner or director of the family firm and considered  himself to 
be an employee at that time.
We have  seen  some policies  that define policyholders as self-employed  if they work for a relative,  but 
this is not one of those  policies. So, as Mr H would  have  been considered  as being  employed, it 
wouldnt have been any more difficult for him to make an unemployment clam than any other 
employed person.
Mr H has said that, if hed been off sick, hed have been paid full pay indefinitely because  his father 
would have seen him right in such circumstances.  But the family firm might have come under 
financial stress at such a time, if it was continuing  to pay a full salary  to Mr H without him actually 
working. Whilst Im sure Mr Hs father would have wanted to help as much as possible, Im not 
persuaded I can rely on Mr H receiving his full pay over a longer term. And Im satisfied  that Mr H did 
Ref: DRN88062313at least  choose to protect his mortgage repayments, even though  he turned down other insurance, 
such as income  protection.
Mr H had some  savings, but having the policy would have meant that he could  have retained these or 
used them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult  time.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt provide as much information about  the policy  as it should have,  
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr H wasnt affected by any of these things. As I 
think that Mr H had an interest  in the policy and decided  to buy it, I dont think  that further information  
would have caused him to change  his mind.
This means  that HSBC  doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But HSBC has paid 
back some  of the cost of the PPI to him because:  
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because HSBC 
didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above  
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr H.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont  award any 
further compensation. 
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8806231