K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about Assurant General Insurance Limiteds offers  of settlement for her 
furniture protection  insurance policy claim and about its poor service. My references to 
Assurant include its agent.
My decision  is about Mrs D as a sole complainant, rather than as a joint complainant with 
her husband  as referred to in our adjudicators  correspondence. Mrs D is the sole 
policyholder so is the correct complainant. The change  hasnt altered the outcome of my 
decision.
background
When Mrs D bought  matching four and two seater  sofas she also bought a five year furniture 
protection insurance policy.
From 2014  to 2016 Mrs D made several  claims for problems with the furniture, which  
Assurant accepted. In October 2017 Mrs D claimed for peeling  leather on one of the sofas 
seat covers. Assurant  accepted the claim and wanted to replace the seat covers.  There were 
delays and in April 2018 when Assurant was chasing up the order the manufacturer  told it 
the sofa model had been discontinued. Assurant tried to colour match  the existing sofa for 
repair but that wasnt possible. So it gave  Mrs D two options to settle her claim:
choose a new item from a specific retailer  up to the value of the remaining policy limit 
of £2,215.98 (the cost of the damaged four seater sofa plus 50% of the cost of the 
two seater sofa less £382.52 for previous claims), or
have a cash settlement of £1,107.99  (50% of the above).
Assurant accepted it had been  responsible  for some of the delays and offered Mrs D £65 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Mrs D complained to us. She said Assurants delays had led to the furniture no longer being 
available to her. She didnt accept either of Assurants offers  which she said would leave her 
with mismatched furniture  or out of pocket to replace  the additional  piece of furniture.  She 
didnt think Assurant should deduct the value of her previous claims and said the repairs had 
been unsuccessful. When she went to the furniture retailer Assurant specified it wouldnt 
deal with her. 
Mrs D would like Assurant to pay her the full cost of both sofas and more compensation for 
all her upset and inconvenience.
Initially our adjudicator thought Assurant should change  its offers.  But when it gave her more 
information she explained to Mrs D why she thought Assurants offers were fair.
Mrs D doesnt agree and wants  an ombudsmans decision. She said one of the claim repairs  
was to the two seater sofa (not the damaged sofa) which had a warranty. The policy  didnt 
mention claim deductions could be made.  She emphasised the frustration and distress the 
whole situation  has caused her.
Ref: DRN81535592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs D as I know shes upset by Assurant, but I dont uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I wont repeat all the detail  of how Mrs Ds claim progressed as our adjudicator's opinion 
letters detailed the timeline of events.
Mrs D says the problem  with the sofa seats has been a long running problem that has never  
properly been  repaired. Assurants records show that not all the claim repairs have been for 
the same  issue.
The policy says If a repair cannot  be achieved, (Assurant) may choose to replace the 
damaged part, and in the event of this not being possible, (Assurant) may provide a 
replacement product(s)  at (its) discretion. 
So Assurant acted reasonably in opting  to repair the previous problems. The repairs had a 
six month guarantee and theres  no evidence  the same fault reoccurred in that timescale, so 
the repairs were successful.
When Mrs D made  her 2017 claim there were delays but Im satisfied that much  of the delay 
was due to the manufacturer and furniture delivery  business who Assurant isnt responsible 
for. Assurant wasnt as proactive as it should  have been in chasing the manufacturer  when 
delivery dates passed. 
However, importantly Assurants delay didnt result  in Mrs D not being  able to get the 
replacement seat covers. Assurant didnt delay in putting in the order to the manufacturer in 
2017, which the manufacturer confirmed. The sofa model had already been discontinued (in 
2017) by the time the furniture delivery  business couldnt find Mrs Ds seat covers in 2018. 
Assurant isnt responsible for the furniture  delivery  business error.
Although Assurants communication could have  been better it did keep Mrs D updated  
generally. Overall, Assurants compensation offer of £65 is a reasonable amount for the 
upset and inconvenience it caused.
The offers that Assurant  made to settle  the claim are also fair and reasonable.
The policy is clear that the cover  is limited to the original  purchase price of the furniture. The 
damaged sofa is part of a suite.  We have  a well-established approach that, where  part of a 
suite is damaged, as well as replacing the damaged item the insurer should offer 50% of the 
value of any undamaged items. Thats what Assurants done in this case.
The policy doesnt  specifically  say Assurant can deduct the value of claims when calculating  
its offer. But the policy does say Assurants maximum  liability is limited to the original 
purchase price. Its already paid £382.52  for repairs so it only needs to cover,  and make an 
offer for, the remainder  of the costs. 
Even though  one of the claims  was for the two seater sofa Assurant can still deduct that 
amount in the calculation of the 50% its offered for the matching item,  so the total would still 
Ref: DRN81535593be £2,215.98.  Mrs D says that claim could  have been covered by the manufacturers 
warranty but she made the claim against  the policy and Assurant  had the repair expense.
The policy doesnt  give a cash settlement.  Assurant  has chosen to make an alternative cash 
offer based  upon the cost of the reselection  of furniture to it. The industry  standard  practice 
of business discounts received from manufacturers means that cost would be 50% of the 
reselection price. Its alternative option of a cash settlement  of £1,107.99 is fair. 
Theres no basis for me to say Assurant must pay Mrs D the original  value of both sofas.
The policy says that any replacement will be arranged by Assurant at its discretion.  So it can 
say the reselection  of furniture has to be from a specific retailer.  Assurants offer letter  to 
Mrs D was clear  she should contact it with details of the selected  furniture she wanted rather  
than her deal with the retailer direct.  
  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8153559