K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that certain  underwriters  at the Society of Lloyds (the underwriters)  have 
unfairly declined  his marine insurance  claim. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint to both parties on 7 August 2019, which 
sets out the background  to Mr Ls complaint.  In summary, I concluded that the underwriters 
hadnt acted unreasonably by relying  on their independent experts report  to conclude  that 
the damage sustained to Mr Ls vessel  was not caused by an accident  and was therefore  
uninsured.
But I intended upholding Mr Ls complaint in part because I thought  it was fair and 
reasonable for the underwriters to cover the costs associated with their investigation,  but  
only up until the point  they declined the claim.  I also considered  that further compensation 
was warranted  as a result of the underwriters  handling of Mr Ls claim. Accordingly, I 
proposed that the underwriters should:
Reimburse Mr Ls costs for lifting the boat out of the water, removing and sending the 
stern drive to the engineer, along with storage  costs  up until the claim was declined 
on 18 July 2017, at the rate he paid according to the invoices provided; and
Pay a total of £300 compensation  for distress and inconvenience suffered (including 
the £100 already paid).
The Society of Lloyds had no further  comments to pass on in relation to the above 
proposals, but they raised concerns regarding the invoices  submitted by Mr L and 
questioned to what they related. In summary,  they were concerned that:
The stern drive was sent to the underwriters engineer for inspection  in July 2017,  but 
the invoice for this was dated 3 October 2018, and was not sent to the underwriters 
until after this date.
The invoice presented from the marine sales company was not consistent with the 
estimate provided by Mr Ls agent,  which says the boat was returned  to the water by 
31 May 2017. So the underwriters dispute  the extent of the storage costs  they ought  
to pay if the vessel  was indeed returned to the water  on or around  31 May 2017, as 
they say the invoice  dated 29 November 2017  could  relate  to usual winter lift out and 
storage that Mr L would  have  paid in any event.
The same  invoice  is also inconsistent  with the figures quoted  by Mr L in his email  
dated 25 June  2017 where  it was clear the boat was still afloat at this time. Mr L says 
the boat was returned to the water  in September 2017, so the underwriters also 
questioned why the invoice was dated 29 November 2017.
The underwriters say they are unclear on when the boat was actually being  stored  as a 
result of the claim and when it was actually lifted. So they argue  they should  not have to pay 
the amounts quoted on the invoices as there is not enough evidence  to suggest what the 
costs relate  to for the invoices Mr L has submitted.  
Mr L did not provide  any further comments in relation to the proposals set out in my 
provisional decision, but he responded to the underwriters concerns in relation to the 
invoices. In summary, Mr L said:
Ref: DRN81476052In relation to the costs incurred from sending  the stern drive to the underwriters 
engineer, he could not find the original invoice, so the agent printed off another  copy 
but was unable backdate it. 
The boat was lifted and returned  to the water in May 2017  following the accident. It 
would have remained in the water until it needed  to be repaired,  but the underwriters 
insisted that it be removed and the stern drive sent for inspection,  which  meant it had 
to be laid up until the repairs  were completed. 
The boat was lifted out of the water on 28 June 2017 and the repair works were not 
completed until mid-September, at which point the boat was returned to the water.
The invoice from the marine  sales company  was dated 29 November 2017  as this 
was when he could  afford to settle  it in full. He does  not take his boat out of the water 
over winter and it is typically kept in its berth  all year round.
Mr L had not noticed  the discrepancy between what he was quoted  for the lift out and 
what he was eventually charged. However, he says he has since  discussed  this 
discrepancy with the marine sales office, who have  agreed  to reimburse the 
difference. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the parties most recent 
submissions. 
Given that neither  party  has disputed the outcome in relation to the claim being properly 
declined, I see no reason to depart from the reasoning set out previously in my provisional  
decision. However, I will deal with the concerns raised by the underwriters in relation to the 
invoices I intended  asking them to pay as part of the investigation into Mr Ls claim.
Invoice dated  3 October 2018
This invoice  relates  to the costs incurred through removing  the stern drive from the vessel 
and preparing it for shipment to the underwriters engineer for inspection.  The underwriters 
have questioned why this invoice is dated 3 October 2018 when the work for this was carried 
out over a year earlier in July 2017.  
Mr L says he was not asked for this invoice by the underwriters until the end of August 2018, 
by which  point he says he could not find the original. He says the agent  was able to print him 
off a copy, but due to his invoicing software,  it couldnt be backdated and so had to be 
printed with the date at the time  3 October 2018.
I can see Mr L also emailed the underwriters on the same  day explaining this when he said 
[the agent] has given me a copy of original  bill, but cant backdate it due to his billing system 
and dating arrangement. Given  that liability had been disputed in this case, it has meant that 
the claim and settlement  of Mr Ls expenses has taken longer than usual and has spanned 
across a timeframe of around  two years. So I dont think  it is unusual  that Mr L may have 
misplaced an original  invoice and had to seek a copy, and I find his reason for it being dated 
3 October 2018 to be plausible  in the circumstances. The invoice also sets out clearly the 
work that was charged for:
Remove gearbox, travel to [marine engineers  location] and collect small pallet, return  and 
strap gearbox to pallet for shipment
Ref: DRN81476053It isnt disputed by the parties that this work  was actually carried out, and the amount 
charged doesnt seem unreasonable,  so I dont think the fact that it is dated October 2018 (in 
light of Mr Ls explanation) should mean  that the underwriters ought not to pay it. 
Storage costs
The underwriters say theyre unsure of what storage costs they ought to be paying, because 
it appears Mr Ls boat was lifted out and returned to the water by 31 May 2018.  Mr L has 
explained that the boat was taken out of the water initially following the accident, but was 
subsequently returned to its berth. He says the boat would have remained in the water up 
until any repairs could actually be carried out, but that it had to be lifted out on 28 June 2017  
because the underwriters insisted on sending the stern drive to their marine engineer.  He 
says the boat then had to be laid up from this point onwards because it would have sunk if it 
were returned to its berth following  the removal of the stern drive, which  leaves a wide gap in 
the stern that leads directly to the engine bay. 
I dont think it is unusual  that Mr Ls boat was taken  out of the water  in May 2017;  the vessel  
was inspected to establish the extent of the damage.  The estimate provided by Mr Ls agent  
also explains  as there was no available out of water storage at the time, the boat was 
returned. I dont  think this means  that the boat was never stored at all, as this is only in 
relation to the initial inspection. 
Mr L has been consistent in his representations that the boat was lifted out on 28 June 2017 
so, as I set out in my provisional decision,  I will be directing the underwriters  to pay for the 
associated storage costs  from this date until the claim  was declined on 18 July 2017, at the 
rate of £100 a week stated in the invoice of 29 November 2017.
Lifting the vessel
The underwriters have  questioned the discrepancy  between the amount Mr L was quoted for 
the lifting of his vessel and the amount he was eventually  charged. Mr L sent an email  on 
25 June 2017  explaining that the marine sales office  had quoted  him a rate of £29.50  per 
metre plus VAT. The underwriters said that the model of Mr Ls vessel measured 8.41 
metres in length, which should work out as £297.72 (including VAT). 
However, the invoice  Mr L has provided from the marine sales office shows he was 
subsequently charged £350  plus VAT (£420 in total) for the lift out. I asked Mr L about the 
difference in price, and he says he had not noticed  it as he paid the marine  office several 
months after he received  the initial quote.  However, Mr L says that his vessel was not 8.41 
metres as the underwriters have  suggested. He said the boat is listed as 8.7-8.9 metres  
which he says the marine office would have  rounded  up to 9 metres and would have 
amounted to £265.50 plus VAT (£318.60 in total)  which is still less than he was eventually 
charged.
Mr L has since discussed the difference in price  with the marine office, who have agreed to 
reimburse him the difference between the £420  he was actually charged  and the £318.60 he 
ought to have been charged (inclusive  of VAT). So I will only be directing  the underwriters to 
reimburse the latter. And as I set out in my provisional decision, the underwriters  ought  only 
pay the cost of lifting the boat out of the water because  given that Mr L needed  to repair  
his boat regardless of this claim  he would always have had to bear the cost of returning the 
boat to water, irrespective  of the underwriters  investigation.
Ref: DRN81476054The underwriters have  raised concerns that the invoice produced from the marine  office is 
dated 29 November  2017, despite the boat having been returned  to its berth by 
September 2017, and they submit  that this invoice  could  relate  to usual winter lift out and 
storage that Mr L would have paid in any event.
Mr L has explained that he was not in a position  to pay for the costs  of the vessel  being  
hauled and laid up until the end of November, which  is why the invoice was produced  in this 
month. And given that it is only a couple of months after the boat was returned to the water, I 
dont think this is implausible. Mr L also says he doesnt take his boat out of the water  for the 
winter and that it is usually kept in its berth all year round. The invoice also references the 
11 weeks  storage that his boat was laid up for until it was repaired, which corresponds with 
the length of time it was stored until it was returned to its berth in mid-September as Mr L 
has consistently explained. So I do not accept  the underwriters submission that this invoice 
could relate  to a usual  winter lift out.
I appreciate that the underwriters have concerns regarding the dates (and, in some 
instances, the provenance) of the invoices submitted. But I consider Mr L to have provided 
plausible explanations for the apparent inconsistencies. And on balance,  I havent  seen 
enough to persuade me that the underwriters ought  not to pay the costs outlined  above for 
the reasons explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, as well as in my provisional decision,  I uphold this complaint in 
part and direct the Society of Lloyds underwriters to:
Reimburse Mr Ls costs for lifting the boat out of the water, removing and sending the 
stern drive to the engineer, along with storage  costs  up until the claim was declined 
on 18 July 2017, at the rate he has paid according to the invoices  he has provided.  
The underwriters should also add 8% simple interest per year from the date Mr L 
paid these costs  until the date of settlement (less  any tax properly deductible).
Pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience  (less the £100  offered if 
already paid)   to be paid within 28 days of Mr Ls acceptance of my decision being 
received by the underwriters, failing  which interest will start to accrue  at the simple 
rate of 8% per year until settlement (less any tax properly deductible). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8147605