K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from National Westminster  Bank Plc (Nat 
West) in relation to his bank account.
background
Mr H says he visited his local Nat West branch to pay a large  sum of money in cash  into his 
account, to be used as the deposit  for his house purchase. He asked for the matter to be 
dealt with in a private room, given the amount  involved. However, he was told that wouldnt 
be possible, but he says he wasnt given a reason.  
Mr H also says two Nat West employees  counted the money and they told him the total was 
£1,300 less than it should have been.  He says he queried this at the time and asked to have  
the money back, but was told he couldnt  as it had already been through  the counting  
machine. And he says hes had to borrow £1,300 from a friend to make up the shortfall  in his 
house deposit.
So, Mr H says he wants to be compensated for the money he says was miscounted  and for 
the distress and inconvenience  hes experienced due to Nat Wests handling of this matter.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint  shouldnt be upheld. She said she wouldve liked 
to see bank statements  showing Mr H had removed the money from another account to pay 
the deposit and proof  hed had to borrow  £1,300.
The investigator was also unsure why Mr H hadnt queried the discrepancy more  at the time 
or asked  for his funds to be returned  to him, as Nat West says he was given the option to do. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said the money  was saved over a 
period of time and kept in his safe at home.  And he gave us a letter  from the friend who he 
says loaned £1,300 to him, in support of this aspect of his complaint.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
Its clear that Mr Hs complaint is fundamentally about the discrepancy between the amount 
of money in cash he believes he took into the Nat West branch and the amount recorded as 
having been paid into his account. So, my decision concentrates on that issue.
I see Mr H has told us hed been  saving the money over a period of time and hed kept it in 
his safe at home. He says thats  why he wasnt able to produce  bank  statements showing  
the withdrawal of the full amount of money involved.  And I see hes given us a letter  from the 
friend he says loaned £1,300 to him to cover the shortfall in the amount  needed for his 
house deposit.
Ref: DRN82130142I also see Nat West has acknowledged Mr H queried the amount twice when the branch staff 
told him how much money they had counted. And it has said he could have asked  for the 
money to be returned  to him at that stage if he felt it hadnt been  counted  accurately, but it 
says he didnt do this. 
I acknowledge Mr H disputes that he was given the opportunity to take the money back. And 
hes unhappy he wasnt taken to a private  room for it to be counted. But Nat West has told 
us they were all being used  by other  customers at the time.
I think its significant that Mr H signed  a slip to confirm the amount of money he had 
deposited although this was £1,300 less than the amount of cash he says he took with him 
to the branch. And I note Nat West has given us the till balancing  notes from the branch for 
the relevant day, which dont show a cash surplus of £1,300, or any large  cash  surplus, for 
that day.  
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities   in other words, on what  I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available  evidence.  Here, taking all 
the available  information into account, I cant conclude its most likely Nat West miscounted 
Mr Hs money,  thereby leaving him £1,300  out of pocket. I think its more likely he was 
mistaken as to how much money hed taken to the branch to pay in, particularly in view of 
the very large  amount  of money in cash that was involved. 
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8213014