K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund some  
disputed transactions.
background
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs P complained to Barclays about a large  amount  of 
transactions on their account which they say they did not make. They  explained their son 
had used their account to fund his gambling habit without their knowledge. The 
transactions were  made between 2015 and 2018.
During this time, Mr and Mrs Ps son had transferred money around from different accounts 
and had told his parents  that they werent receiving statements because Barclays  had 
stopped sending out paper statements. In fact, it appears that he was intercepting them 
and not disclosing them to his parents.
The transactions took place over four cards.
Barclays alerted Mr and Mrs P to some  transaction on their account in January 2016. It 
sent a text message requesting that they get in touch   which  they did. During  this call, 
Mr P tells Barclays  that the text message said his card had been used in Malta. He 
confirms he was not in Malta- but the adviser explains the card wasnt  physically  used 
there. It was that the merchant was based in Malta.
Mr P queried whether his son might have  something  to do with the transactions   but he 
wasnt at home at that moment. He said he would  ask him. But the adviser,  clearly  
concerned she had been told Mr P had not made  the transactions,  told Mr P she should 
block the account as a safety measure. Whilst there is some reluctance on Mr Ps part to 
so, the adviser  appeared quite persuasive. The conversation ended with the adviser  telling 
Mr P she was going to put a temporary block on the account until he called back.
However, it appears a block was not placed on the account in January 2016  and 
the spending continued.
In May 2016, January 2017, May 2017  and October 2017, Barclays records  show  
replacement cards were ordered  on the account. Excessive spending  on the account in 
the same  manner continued until towards the end of 2017.
Mr and Mrs P complained about the transactions in October 2017.
In a letter dated 24th November 2017 Barclays said it was holding  Mr and Mrs P liable for 
the transactions. It said they had failed  to meet the terms and conditions of the account  
but did not state which one(s) in particular. In its final response letter, it re-iterated its 
position and so Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought Barclays should refund some of the transactions   from May 
2016 onwards.  Barclays disagreed and the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN87800832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have arrived at a different  decision to that of the investigator.  I sent my provisional  
decision to both Barclays and Mr and Mrs P.  Barclays accepted  my findings  Mr and 
Mrs P said they had nothing further to add.
disputed transactions
By the time Barclays alerted Mr and Mrs P to the suspicious activity  on their account  in 
January 2016,  a large amount of unusual transactions had already been carried  out  and 
it is clear during that call with Mr P that he was not the one making them.
In fact, it was Mr and Mrs P themselves who told Barclays their son had been abusing 
their accounts and taking  their statements. He had also set up internet banking  without 
their consent  or knowledge.
When the adviser said she was going  to block the account in January 2016, thats 
exactly what she should have done. A customer had just advised her he had not made  
the transactions she was referring to. But Barclays failed to act when it should have.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for all transactions from January 2015 until 
21st January 2016  to be refunded as I dont think Mr and Mrs P authorised  these 
and, on balance, I dont  think they were on notice  that anything  untoward was going  
on.
From January 2016, Mr and Mrs P were on notice  that their son had been using their 
account.  New cards were requested and replaced but still the spending continued. 
Following that call, I dont  think  it would be unfair to say that Mr and Mrs P should  have  
taken more care of the account and monitored the spending  yet it appears  they did not. In 
the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly ask Barclays  to refund the remainder of the 
transactions.
customer service
One of my concerns lies with a telephone conversation between Mrs P and a member of the 
fraud team.
During this call, the fraud adviser  questions Mrs P about her son  had they reported him 
to the police, were  they going  to prosecute and why was he still living in their house?
I think that call could  have  been  handled better. I dont think it is for Barclays to ask why 
Mrs Ps son was still living in her house. She had clearly found herself in a difficult and very 
stressful situation. I think Barclays should have acknowledged that - but it failed  to do so. In 
fact, at no point did Barclays acknowledge anything other than Mr and Mrs Ps liability  for 
the disputed transactions.
When I contacted  Barclays to ask why a block had not been  placed in January 2016,  it 
continued to maintain its stance that Mr P was going  to call back, having spoken to his 
son. That was not my understanding  of a very clear conversation.
Ref: DRN87800833I have considered whether the situation  would have been any different had a block  been 
placed on the account in January  2016   and I think  there is a possibility it might  have  
been. The block may have caused  Mr and Mrs P to interrogate their account in more detail 
and be alerted to their sons  spending  a lot earlier.  Ive thought about whether I should 
award any compensation for this failure   but in the circumstances, I dont  think it would be 
fair and reasonable to do so.
For the poor service in general, and the telephone call in particular, I think £300 would be 
fair amount for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Mr and Mrs P.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Barclays  Bank UK Plc should:
-refund  all disputed  transactions from 1st January 2015 up to 21st January 2016 
(the exact amount  to be calculated and confirmed);
-pay interest at the rate of 8% on these transaction  from the date of the transaction      
to the date of settlement;
- pay £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 January 2021.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8780083