K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold him a single premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr N took out a 12 month personal loan with Lloyds in August  1995. He also took out a 
single premium PPI policy  at the same time. This covered his loan repayments  for the same  
term.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. Mr N didnt agree, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
was Mr N given a choice  about PPI?
I cant know what was discussed at the meeting Mr N had with the bank. Given  how long ago 
this was, Lloyds  no longer  has a copy of Mr Ns paperwork  from the time of sale.  Mr N said he 
didnt need PPI given his work benefits. 
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available. So, as well as taking into 
account what Mr N recalls  from the time of sale, Ive looked at the sample loan agreement that 
Lloyds said it was using  at the time, and taken  into account what  we know about Lloyds sales 
processes from dealing with other cases.
Having done so, I think it likely that Mr N wouldve been asked if he wanted  PPI before it was 
added to his loan agreement. I think it likely  that he said he wanted it. I havent seen 
anything to make me think that Lloyds wasnt following its usual sales  process in Mr Ns 
case.
was the policy recommended  to Mr N? and if so, was it suitable?
Mr N said PPI wasnt explained clearly.
I think Lloyds probably recommended this policy to Mr N, so it had to make sure that the 
policy was suitable  for his needs. It also had to give him information  that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so that he could decide for himself if he wanted to buy it.
I cant see that this policy  was unsuitable for Mr N. I say this because:
Mr N appeared eligible to take out the policy;
Ref: DRN89356972I cant see that it was unaffordable;
Mr N said he wouldve got sick pay through work (six months at full pay and six months  
at half). But, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his work benefits.  So, I still think  it 
couldve provided  him with useful  protection to meet  his loan repayments.  I cant see 
that his other resources clearly made  the policy unsuitable for him;
Mr N didnt get a pro-rata  refund  of the premiums  when he ended the policy  early.  But, I 
cant see that this wouldve been known at the time he took the policy  out, so I dont 
think hes lost out because of this; and 
I dont know what was discussed about the policys  main  features or how they were  
presented to Mr N. However, I dont  think this wouldve  made a difference to his decision 
to buy PPI either as I cant  see that Mr N was affected  by any of the main  limitations  or 
exclusions. As he couldve benefitted  from everything  the policy  offered, I dont think  the 
policy was unsuitable  for him.
was Mr N given enough information?
I think the costs of the policy  couldve  been  more clearly set out. But, like our adjudicator, 
I think even with better information  most  likely this wouldnt have changed Mr Ns decision to 
buy the policy. I say this because looking at the amount of interest Mr N wouldve likely had 
to pay on the PPI premium (£34.23), I dont think the amount he had to pay in interest 
wouldve stopped  him taking out the policy.
I think the policy was suitable and it offered useful  protection.  I cant  see that Mr Ns lost out 
because of anything  that Lloyds may have done wrong.
Ive taken into account everything that Mr Ns said. But for the reasons Ive explained, 
I havent changed my view.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8935697