K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about poor service from Barclays Bank UK Plc and that he has suffered 
financial loss as a result of the way they managed  and transferred his shares  to another  
provider. 
background
Mr S held shares with Barclays  in an account  which incurred monthly fees.  He said he 
wasnt aware there were  any fees outstanding and Barclays sold three  of his shares to pay 
for the outstanding fees and commission for the sale.  He was informed of the sale in 
September 2018 when he called to make  payment  to Barclays. He never authorised  the sale 
of these shares. He considered Barclays service in general had been  very poor as they 
hadnt replied  to his letters or sent him an apology letter after he complained. 
In June 2018, Mr S instructed Barclays to transfer these shares to another  provider. He says 
they gave him incorrect information about who should initiate the transfer to the other 
provider which caused delays. So the shares  were not transferred until September 2018. 
Mr S says the delay  in transferring the shares  resulted in his decision to sell the shares. He 
suffered a financial loss of £305.31 as the shares were eventually  sold at a lower rate than 
when they were valued in June 2018. He wants Barclays to compensate  him for the loss in 
value. 
Barclays accepted  they had failed  to inform Mr S about the outstanding fees and that no 
letters were sent to him so they offered him £250 compensation. But they dont accept they 
have done anything wrong  in selling the shares. The delays  incurred were  because the other 
provider didnt initiate  the transfer as they should  have done.  They  say they sold the shares  
because they were carrying out instructions  given  by Mr S who made the choice to sell and 
so arent  responsible for any loss he may have suffered.  
The investigator at this service didnt  uphold the complaint and said the offer made  by 
Barclays was reasonable. He said the delays that happened where not Barclays fault and so 
couldnt ask them to do more.
Mr S didnt agree so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
There has been detailed  correspondence with Mr S about his experience  with Barclays and 
its clear he has strong feelings  about  the difficulties  hes experienced. Id like to assure  Mr S 
that Ive thought carefully about  everything hes said including  the correspondence sent after 
he received the investigators view. 
Compensation offered
Mr S says he never received a response to his letters  or an apology or the final response 
letter for his complaint to them. If this hasnt already been sent,  Barclays should send this 
directly to Mr S. He feels  let down that he wasnt informed of the £4 charge that was being 
added to his account every  month.  He was already  paying fees for his Barclays  account  and 
Ref: DRN84119082when they changed their platform  it meant  the fee structure also changed.  This was 
communicated to him and he had to agree to the new terms and conditions,  or at least say if 
he didnt agree. There isnt anything to suggest  he disagreed with these. Those  terms and 
conditions also said what would happen  if the payment  wasnt made  that Barclays had the 
right to sell his shares. So by agreeing to the terms and conditions  he had authorised them  
to sell shares to cover  his costs.
Barclays should have  told him about  the fees to give him the option of paying differently 
before the shares needed to be sold. But in this case, I dont think thats caused him a 
financial loss as the prices they sold the three shares at was in fact higher than the price  he 
got for the rest of his shares.  
However, the terms and conditions  also say that Barclays should let him know whenever 
there are any outstanding  fees due. Barclays accept  that they didnt do this and so have 
offered Mr S compensation. 
I acknowledge the frustration Mr S felt and the time spent in dealing with Barclays 
particularly as the service  issues continued  after he complained to them.  But I should explain 
that our job at this service  isnt to punish  a business  for poor service  or administration. It is 
the role of the industry regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, to oversee regulated 
businesses and intervene as it sees fit. Our role is to put things right when a business  has 
done something wrong. Barclays  have already accepted that it failed in the service that they 
provided Mr S and offered £250  compensation. The issue  in dispute here is the level of 
compensation being offered by Barclays. Mr S feels the issues  he has faced as a result  of 
Barclays mis-management and general service issues should warrant larger  compensation. 
I acknowledge that the situation  was inconvenient for Mr S and I fully understand why he 
doesnt feel the compensation amount offered by Barclays is sufficient.  As I said our job is 
not to punish a business where  it has done  something wrong  but to put things right. Looking 
at the impact  these  errors have had and how much compensation we generally  award  in 
these kinds of circumstances,  I think the level of compensation offered by Barclays  is fair 
taking into account  the trouble and upset  Mr S has been caused so I wont  ask them to do 
more than honour the £250 offer already made.  
Sale of shares
Mr S gave a clear instruction on 6 August 2018 to change the shares from electronic to 
certificate form and then to be transferred to the other provider. It is clear that Barclays  didnt 
actually follow this instruction. But what really matters here is whether by failing to do so 
Barclays caused the financial loss Mr S says he suffered by selling his shares. Mr S says the 
delays he faced resulted in him finally asking for the shares to be sold instead  of transferred. 
While I understand why Mr S felt he wanted  to sell his shares due to how long things were 
taking, Im not persuaded he had to do so. If he feels hes lost out by selling his shares he 
could have mitigated  that loss by keeping the shares and having the transfer eventually go 
through.
In any event, Mr S hasnt lost out because the share  price  today is much lower than it was 
when he sold his holding.  So if hed like to own the shares again hes able to buy them back  
cheaper now.
 
Ref: DRN84119083my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am not upholding this complaint. But if it hasnt already done 
so, Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr S the £250  it has already offered him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8411908