K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Barclays  Bank UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs K bought the PPI in 2000 whilst  applying  for a new credit card. 
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. 
Mrs K has already received some money  back for the commission  Barclays  received from 
selling her the PPI. However, she still thinks she was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and 
disagrees with the adjudicator. The complaint has been passed  to me for an ombudsmans 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale.
I was sent a copy of her credit card application and I can see the form gave an obvious 
choice to either have  or not have  PPI. Mrs K selected the box to add the PPI and she 
signed the form. So I think she agreed to the PPI olicy and has possibly since forgotten  she 
did this.
Barclays concedes the PPI would have probably been recommended to her during the sale.  
This means  it had an additional duty to ensure  this type of cover was suitable  for her. 
Overall, I think it probably was.
This is because Ive looked very carefully at Mrs Ks situation. I think  she was eligible for the 
cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy.  
Looking at the work she did, I agree  she would  have probably had some  sickness  protection 
with her job. And Ive considered her wider circumstances too. But these things dont 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. It would have paid out 10% of her outstanding credit  
card balance for up to a year if shed needed to claim. This wouldve been in addition to any 
other means  she had at that time. I also see that the cost was 75p per £100  outstanding on 
the card, which I think would have been  affordable for Mrs K.
So I think this policy was suitable for her.
Barclays still needed to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so Mrs K 
could make an informed  choice about whether or not to go ahead and buy the PPI. The 
documentation Mrs K used appears  to have included some information  about the PPI policy  
including the cost so Mrs K could have read that. And overall  I think she probably  had 
enough information to decide  what she wanted to do. I can see ways in which  the form could 
have been set out more  clearly, but overall  this doesnt change what  I think.
Ref: DRN81197342Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs K but I think the evidence shows  she chose the policy  and would 
have known it wasnt something she needed to have. This means Im not upholding her mis-
sale complaint.
Barclays has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because when the 
policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  It should  have told Mrs K about that. Because  it didnt, that was 
unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays has already  paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Barclays  Bank UK Plc has already paid her for the commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8119734