K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading  as Halifax has dealt with his 
chargeback and request for a refund for a faulty  engine under S75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
background
Mr A bought an engine  for £1,360 which he says was faulty in August 2018 on a website I 
will call E. Mr A says he told the seller of the engine  that it was faulty  and the seller 
accepted responsibility but raised  an issue that the engine had been fitted and modified. Mr 
A says he complained  to both E and the company  that processed the payment  which  I will 
call P. But they refused  to refund him.
Mr A says he contacted  Halifax to see if it could help him by raising a chargeback or by 
making a claim under  S75 Consumer  Credit Act 1974(CCA). He says Halifax refunded  his 
money but then took the sellers side and refused to make a second chargeback. Mr A says 
Halifax hasnt followed proper protocol and has failed to help him. He would  like the money 
refunded in full by Halifax.
Halifax accepts it gave  Mr A conflicting  information  and has apologised and offered him 
£100. It says it raised a chargeback that was successfully defended and so there  was little 
point in raising a second chargeback. Halifax says the agreement isnt covered by S75 CCA 
as Mr As payment was to P and P fulfilled its obligations by then paying the seller  of the 
engine. It says there was no payment relationship between the seller  and Mr A as P was 
involved.
Mr A brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Halifax  had dealt fairly with it. 
The investigator didnt  think S75 CCA applied as the payment was handled by P and so 
there wasnt a direct  relationship between Mr A and the seller.  The investigator thought the 
£100 compensation was fair and reasonable for the misleading information Mr A had been 
given.
Mr A doesnt  accept that view and says Halifax failed  to raise a chargeback  and that he 
provided proof the engine was faulty. He complains about how P and E have dealt with his 
complaint and says S75 CCA should  apply as P didnt offer the protection  it said it would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Halifax has dealt  fairly with this complaint.  I realise Mr A will be disappointed by my 
decision and Im sorry to learn that the engine  he bought is faulty.
There are two parts to Mr As complaint namely  his complaint about the chargeback and that 
hes not received  a refund for the faulty  engine under S75 CCA.
The chargeback rules and process are not set by Halifax  but by the credit  card scheme that 
applies. When a chargeback is started  the outcome  is not guaranteed and any claim may be 
successfully defended. That doesnt mean that Halifax agrees with as in this case  the seller 
of the engine or favours one party over another-it  just means the seller  in this case has 
defended the claim  in line with the card provider rules. Im satisfied thats whats  happened  
here that Halifax has raised a chargeback and refunded Mr As money. But the seller  of the 
engine has successfully defended that claim and so Halifax has correctly deducted the 
Ref: DRN89126322money from Mr A. I also think there was little point in Halifax  pursuing the chargeback  in 
these circumstances  as it was clear there was no longer any reasonable prospect of success 
when it was told it had been successfully defended.
Mr A also says the engine  purchase should  be covered under S75 CCA which  can in certain 
circumstances mean  that the credit card company  is jointly  and severally liable for a breach 
of contract  or misrepresentation. But I think  Mr A didnt pay the seller  of the engine directly 
but used P which in turn paid the seller.  So I dont  think S75 CCA applies here as there was 
no direct  relationship between Mr A and the seller  as S75 requires. And P did as Mr A 
asked-namely to pay the seller of the engine.
I appreciate that Mr A complains about the actions of both P and E. But I cant  fairly  
comment on that as Im only dealing with Mr As complaint about Halifax.  And for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont think Halifax made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  by not being  
able to either take the chargeback any further  or by concluding that S75 CCA didnt apply 
here.
There is no doubt that Halifax did give Mr A misleading information. I dont think  that affected 
the outcome here but I accept it would have caused Mr A frustration and inconvenience. Im 
satisfied that Halifax  has apologised  for that and offered  what  I think  is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation of £100. I appreciate that in the circumstances Mr A may not wish 
to accept that offer and so I will leave it to him to decide.
Overall I think  Mr As dispute here is with the seller of the engine  and or P and E. And so I 
cant fairly order Halifax to refund the cost of the engine. No doubt Mr A will consider other 
means of resolving this dispute.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8912632