K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Mrs D complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  
(PPI).
background
Mr F and Mrs D took out a PPI policy to protect  a Santander mortgage. Mr F and Mrs D think  
the policy was mis-sold.
But Santander didnt  think the complaint should be upheld  it says that although a PPI 
policy was taken out, its records show Mr F and Mrs D never paid anything for it.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  that what Santander had said was right.  
Mr F and Mrs D dont  agree. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at whether Mr F and Mrs D ever paid anything  towards  the policy.
Santander has sent me records  from the insurers policy database.  Theyve found a PPI 
policy in the name of Mr F and Mrs D, which started on 29 May 1998. The records  also show 
a termination date of 22 July 1998.  Santander  have also sent me a premium transaction 
history  but this is blank.  Santander  says that this shows that Mr F and Mrs D didnt pay for 
PPI.
Ive thought about what Mr F and Mrs D have said about this. Theyve  sent us a letter  
Santander sent them in November 2001,  after the interest rate on the mortgage  changed.  I 
see this explained  that their monthly  repayments  would  change,  and also says that 
The monthly payments  quoted include £41.95 in respect of your monthly insurance 
premiums.
I also see that in a letter Santander sent Mr F in February 2019, it says that the MPPI was a 
separate policy that wouldnt appear on the mortgage statements.  It thinks the insurance 
mentioned above  would have been life cover  or buildings  insurance.
Where theres a disagreement about  what happened, I need  to decide whats  most likely to 
have happened, based on what Ive seen.
I think Mr F and Mrs D were paying for an insurance policy  alongside their mortgage. But 
based on what Ive seen Im satisfied  this wasnt PPI. I say this because  the insurer has 
been able to locate details  of Mr F and Mrs Ds policy, and this shows  the policy  ended  in 
July 1998. 
I note that the document Mr F and Mrs D has sent us doesnt  say that the insurance  
premiums relate to a PPI policy.  Im also mindful  that all the policy documents Ive seen from 
around this time say that PPI premiums would be collected on a monthly basis and were  not 
collected in the monthly  mortgage  payment to the lender.
Ref: DRN83940492For the reasons  above, Im satisfied that Mr F and Mrs D werent paying for a PPI policy.  It 
follows that even  if something went wrong  when Santander sold the policy,  Mr F and Mrs D 
didnt lose out because of it.
As Mr F and Mrs D didnt lose out from the sale of PPI, it follows that I dont uphold  the 
complaint and I dont  make an award.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 December  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8394049