K820x#14final decision
complaint by: Mr R and Mrs N Mahay
complaint about: St Andrews  Insurance Plc
complaint reference: 1938-0356//X400
date of decision: 20 January 2021
complaint
Mr and Mrs M say St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2003  sometime after taking  out a mortgage. They  applied  
for the PPI policy through the post.  
The policy provided  cover  for both Mr and Mrs M for accident, sickness,  and unemployment 
 subject to its exclusions  and limitations.  It offered  to repay  £577.30 a month  towards Mr 
and Mrs Ms mortgage balance in the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £34.98 
a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a bakery  supervisor. He has told us he was not entitled 
to any sick pay and didnt  have any other  means of repaying the mortgage  should he be 
unable to work.  Mr M has said he had some  medical conditions at the time of the sale. 
Mrs M was employed as a cleaner. She has told us she was not entitled to any sick pay and 
didnt have any other means  of repaying  the mortgage should  she be unable to work.   Mrs  M 
hasnt mentioned having any health  problems at the time of the sale. 
St. Andrews  has sent us information to show that the mortgage  account closed in June 
2005. 
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
St. Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN84463762claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St. Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St. Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) arent applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
Ref: DRN84463763This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from businesses,  like St. 
Andrews, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all businesses who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
businesses like St. Andrews at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so St. 
Andrews was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St. Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN84463764-Whether St. Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and St. Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
St. Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage started in September  2003 but they didnt apply for the PPI until 
November 2003.  As the mortgage  was already  running, Mr and Mrs M would have been 
aware that the policy was not a condition of the borrowing.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did St. Andrews  provide advice?
St. Andrews  says it didnt  provide advice during this sale.  Mr and Mrs M have not 
commented on this aspect of the sale. Looking at what happened when St. Andrews sold Mr 
and Mrs M the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. Mr and Mrs M were sent an 
application form that they could complete and return if they wanted  PPI. I havent seen any 
evidence that St. Andrews provided  a personalised recommendation that they should  buy 
the policy.
This means  St. Andrews didnt have  to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs M. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable them to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M were given a broad  description of what the policy was intended to 
cover (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if they were unable to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the premium cost and benefit amount  
as this was set out on the application  form.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St. Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN84463765So I dont  think St. Andrews gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
 the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St. Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St. Andrewss shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St. Andrews didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr 
and Mrs M. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs M would have still taken out the policy, had St. Andrews done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs M say they would not have taken it out and believe I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs M had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of either of them  being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs M thought they were  getting is not exactly what they got. The extent to which this 
Ref: DRN84463766differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs M have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs M were  given about  the cost and benefit  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as limitations  and exclusions wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs M werent  permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs M be 
unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified them to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs M pause for thought   and may well have caused them to conclude that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from 
taking out the policy.  
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr M says he had some  
medical conditions  when the PPI was taken out, the policy  didnt exclude  cover for existing 
medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs M say that they turned 60 during the term of the policy and so wouldnt have 
been able to make a claim. However, the policy actually provided  cover until the age of 65 
and the couple redeemed  their mortgage in 2005,  when Mr M was 55 and Mrs M was 57. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs M would have been caught  by any 
of the significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely  they would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs M had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
Ref: DRN84463767reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
St. Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs M that any claim they made would be limited  to a 
24-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for 
 but they didnt have  any other  means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. St. Andrews has provided information that Mr M did in fact make a 
successful claim  for unemployment in 2004.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if they were made redundant, or unable  to work through accident 
or disability.  In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M would 
have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr 
and Mrs M found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN84463768Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI had they been given clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy 
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St. Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think St. Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of St. Andrews statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St. 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St. Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find St. Andrews  negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St. Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 February  2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8446376