K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mrs R or Barclays sent me anything  further  to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or reject 
my decision  before 18 July 2018.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs R says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs R bought  the policy  when she took out a loan in 2000.  The loan included an amount  to pay for the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN88677822Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. Barclays disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint  because:
I think Barclays made Mrs R aware that she had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it out.
I say this because, although  a copy of Mrs Rs signed loan agreement is no longer available, 
Barclays have shown us a copy of an example loan agreement that they say is representative  
of what  Mrs R would have seen at the time of sale. This example document shows that the 
costs of the PPI would  have been set out separately. 
So I think its more likely than not that Mrs R would  have been  aware that PPI was optional 
and she chose  to take it out. Ive noted that Mrs R has said that she doesnt remember very 
much about the sale and this is understandable  given the time thats passed.  
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mrs R, so it had to take reasonable steps to check  that the 
policy was right for her. I havent seen evidence  that they did take reasonable  steps, so Ive 
gone on to decide whether  or not Mrs R has lost out as a result.
Mrs R has told us that she had a pre-existing medical  condition (PEMC) at the time of sale.  
Mrs R has said that this was a neurological  condition  that she was diagnosed  with at a young 
age. This is important because this particular  PPI policy excluded claims  because of PEMCs. 
As Ive already said, I cant safely say that Barclays did consider Mrs Rs circumstances or 
make her aware of this exclusion. But when  Ive considered what Mrs R has told us about  the 
condition, the impact on her life, how it was managed with medication and the time shes had 
off work  because of it, I cant fairly say that recommendation to take PPI was unsuitable or 
that the policy  wasnt  right for Mrs R.
I say this because the condition Mrs R has told us about appears to have been in existence 
for many years  and seems  to be controlled with medication.  Mrs R hasnt told us that she 
needed to take any significant time off work because of the condition.  Shes told us I suffered 
withvery occasionally  and would be off work for 1 or 2 days only.  
So I dont  think Mrs R would have thought, at the time of the sale, that she would  need to take 
time off work  (for longer than the 30 days required by the policy) and need to make a claim as 
a result.
The cost of the policy  was shown  including  the amount of the premium, the interest payable 
on the premium and the total cost. So I think Mrs R would have reasonably  understood how 
much the PPI would cost if she kept the policy for its full term. 
Given how long the policy could  have  paid out for, if Mrs R made a successful claim  she 
couldve got back quite  a bit more than she paid for it. 
Mrs R wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy  
early. I dont know if Barclays thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs R. But I havent seen anything to suggest she thought 
shed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for her  or that 
better information about this wouldve stopped her buying  it.
Ref: DRN88677823Its possible  Barclays  didnt point out the other main things  the policy didnt  cover. But Mrs R 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things.
Ive taken into account Mrs Rs comments, but these  points  dont currently change my decision.
what else Ive considered
In 2017, following  a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure  of commission 
where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy   
more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer,  then that could create an unfair 
relationship between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses should pay back  
the amount of commission and profit share that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules  and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair  relationship provisions  in the 
Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added  to the Consumer 
Credit Act in 2006  came  into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made  in 2006 explained  that the 
unfair relationship  provisions  would only apply to credit agreements  taken out on or after 6 April 2007, 
or agreements taken  out before then, which  were  still running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information that shows Mrs Rs loan was taken  out in 2000 and ended in 2002.  
So based on what Ive said above,  I dont think the unfair relationship provisions  in the Consumer  
Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the 
non-disclosure of commission apply  here.
So Barclays doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mrs R paid for the PPI they had with their 
loan.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont currently intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
If either Mrs R or Barclays Bank  UK PLC have  anything further to add, they should  do so by 15 June 
2019. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8867782