K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with BoI in 1993. At the same time she bought a PPI policy which  
wouldve covered  the repayments on her mortgage for up to a year at a time if she couldnt  
work. It also provided an additional sum to cover  other expenses.
Mrs M says she didnt  need the PPI. She says she was pressured into buying  it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M disagrees, so the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ms 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs M doesnt  suggest that she didnt agree to buy the PPI. But Mrs M says that she was 
told by BoI that she had to have it because  she was taking an interest only mortgage. BoI 
says it wasnt a condition  of the mortgage that Mrs M take the PPI. I havent seen any 
evidence other than Mrs Ms testimony to suggest that the PPI was compulsory. The 
mortgage application form makes it clear  there  is a choice. 
Mrs Ms mortgage was backed  with an investment  vehicle (a PEP)  and I do not think  her 
mortgage repayments were any more vulnerable to non-payment  due to an accident,  
sickness or redundancy than any other  type of mortgage. So I dont think its likely Mrs M 
was told the PPI was compulsory  for this reason.
After our initial assessment Mrs M explained  that as she was a member of BoI staff she was 
entitled to a discounted mortgage rate, but that she had to take the PPI to be eligible for the 
rate. 
I havent seen  any evidence of this either. But even if this was the case, it was up to Mrs M 
to decide whether she took the deal, or sought a full-priced mortgage  without  PPI elsewhere. 
There was no compulsion for her to take the discounted mortgage.
So, on balance, I think Mrs M bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it. 
BoI say they didnt give Mrs M a personal recommendation to buy the PPI. So BoI only had 
to make sure Mrs M had all the information  she needed to make her own decision about  
whether to buy it. I dont  know  whether Mrs M got all the information  she needed. But this 
doesnt mean I should automatically uphold her complaint. Instead,  I need to think about 
what Mrs M wouldve done  if she had had all the information available to her.
Ref: DRN85373722I dont think it wouldve made a difference to Mrs Ms decision to buy the PPI. I say this 
because:
Mrs M was eligible for the policy and wouldnt  have been affected  by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or self-employment;
Mrs M initially told us she was only entitled  to statutory sick pay. Later  she explained 
that she wouldve  had some contractual sick pay. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay, and for longer than her contractual full sick pay wouldve 
lasted;
Mrs M says that she wouldve been  entitled  to redundancy pay. I think  this is likely to 
be correct. But, again, the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this leaving any 
redundancy pay to cover other  uninsured essential expenses;
Mrs M was solely responsible for her mortgage  repayments so I think it wouldve 
been important  to her that she was able to maintain them  if she couldnt work;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at the 
same time. It was flexible,  because  it could be cancelled or amended at any time 
without financial penalty.
So, even if Mrs M didnt  get all the information  she needed I dont think it made a difference  
to her decision to buy the PPI. So I dont think Mrs M lost out as a result of anything BoI 
mightve done wrong. This means  BoI doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs M.
But BoI will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because:
BoI got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mrs M about  that. Because  BoI didnt tell Mrs M, 
that was unfair;
To put that right, BoI has offered  to pay back the amount  of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business has to do
BoI should  pay back to Mrs M the extra she paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. BoI should also pay Mrs M 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs M can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold, so Bank of Ireland (UK) plc doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Ireland (UK) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN85373723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8537372