K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased her motor 
insurance premium when she changed her name  after getting  married. 
background
Mrs W had a motor  insurance policy with Admiral which started in October 2017 with an 
annual premium of £334.78. In August  2018,  Mrs W got married and let Admiral know that 
her surname had now changed. Admiral amended her details accordingly. No additional 
premium was charged. 
In September  2018, Admiral issued Mrs W with a renewal invitation under  her existing policy  
number but using her married name.  The premium for the 2018/2019 policy year was 
£384.87.
Mrs W went on to a price  comparison  website to search for alternative cover.  About a week  
before her existing policy was due to renew Mrs W found an online quote for cover with 
Admiral for £239.68. This was based on using her maiden name. When  she changed  the 
details on her quote to reflect her married named the quote  increased to £319.20. Mrs W 
phoned Admiral  and declined the renewal invitation.  She took out the cover  offered through  
the price comparison  site using her married name.  
Mrs W then complained to Admiral. She said she thought it was unfair that its price 
increased just because shed got married. She said that she was the same person as before 
she married so the premium must be wrong  and/or  discriminatory as she hadnt  had a claim. 
Admiral looked into Mrs Ws complaint but didnt think itd done anything  wrong.  It said it 
appreciated shed submitted a quote  under a different name and had obtained  a cheaper 
price, but it said if it didnt have full or accurate information, then it wouldnt receive accurate 
search results which in turn impacted the premium  generated.  
Unhappy with the outcome of Admirals investigation, Mrs W complained to this service. Our 
adjudicator investigated her complaint  but didnt think Admiral had treated her unfairly  so 
didnt recommend that it was upheld.
Mrs W disagreed  with our adjudicator. She said it wasnt fair that her previous history  with 
Admiral had been overlooked. She said it was an offence under  the Equality Act 2010 to 
discriminate against  a person for being married. Mrs W said marriage was a protected  
characteristic under the Act. She asked for her complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Although  I appreciate it will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs W, I dont think her complaint should be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Its important to understand that this service  doesnt normally  assess pricing methodology 
generally, such as considering whether  products represent good value for money. So we 
generally accept  that insurers  can charge what they feel they need  to for covering the risk of 
providing insurance so long as they act fairly.  In simple terms, that means that they should 
apply their chosen pricing model consistently between  their customers  whilst  ensuring that 
Ref: DRN86491152the customer has the information they need to make an informed decision about taking the 
policy at the price offered. 
Insurers can only produce quotes based  on the information they are given. And different  
insurers will take different  factors into account  when calculating the premiums  they wish to 
charge. What is important  to one insurer may not be important  to another. But providing 
each insurer applies its internal criteria consistently and fairly, and doesnt single any of its 
customers out in any way then this service  wont typically interfere in how they choose to 
assess the risks theyre being asked to take on. 
The first online quote Mrs W obtained  was based  on an incorrect surname. Whilst I accept 
that Mrs W had held a policy with Admiral in her maiden name, once she changed her 
surname following her marriage, Admirals previous experience with Mrs W under her 
maiden name was overridden. So when Mrs W got the quote in her maiden name Admiral  
failed to match her to the details it held for her under the existing policy in her married  name. 
So the maiden name  quote  was rated  on the basis that Admiral didnt recognise that she 
currently held a policy with it. It generated the price  of £239.86 solely  based  on the 
information that was inputted. But once Mrs W amended the quote to reflect  her married 
status Admiral was able to match  it with the details it held for her.
It is also worth mentioning that the online maiden name quote would have most likely have 
attracted significant new customer  discount  incentives which  could easily explain why it was 
so much cheaper than either the married name  quote (matched  with existing details held)  or 
the renewal invite.  
I cant discuss here the full extent  of how Admiral rates  its policies and what its underwriting  
criteria are. Thats because such information  is commercially sensitive and would put 
Admiral at a competitive disadvantage were it to get into the open. But Id like to reassure 
Mrs W that Ive carefully checked  the information  Admiral has shared with us. Having done 
so Im satisfied that its applied its underwriting criteria to her fairly  and that shes  not been 
singled out (or discriminated against for being  married) in anyway. Im satisfied that Admiral  
fairly calculated the price  of £319.20 it offered  and was accepted  by  Mrs W. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8649115