K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he received  from Quays Wealth  Management Limited 
(QWM) in 2015 to switch  his personal  pension  to a SIPP. His representative says that the 
advice was not suitable for him and the investment that was subsequently  made  was not 
suitable for him. It said he had no investment experience and a low capacity of loss at the 
time the advice was given. It said he has suffered losses of around £50,000.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 3 November 2020.  A copy  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In the provisional decision I set out why I did not intend  to uphold the 
complaint.
Mr Fs representative  confirmed it had no further submissions. QWM confirmed that it had no 
further submissions.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing in mind that I have not received any further  submissions, my decision remains  as 
set out in the attached  provisional decision.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 December  2020.
David Bird
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN83746832copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr F complains about the advice he received  from Quays Wealth  Management Limited 
(QWM) in 2015 to switch  his personal  pension  to a SIPP. His representative says that the 
advice was not suitable for him and the investment that was subsequently  made  was not 
suitable for him. It said he had no investment experience and a low capacity of loss at the 
time the advice was given. It said he has suffered losses of around £50,000.
background
In 2015 QWM provided advice to Mr F to switch his personal pension, worth about  £60,000,  
to a SIPP. The majority of the money was then invested using a Discretionary  Fund Manager 
(DFM). This is an arrangement where  a manager chooses a portfolio of investments bearing 
in mind the specific requirements of the individual  (say in terms of risk level).  
QWM did not uphold  Mr Fs complaint. It said that the advice given to him was suitable and it 
met its regulatory responsibilities when giving advice. It was of the view that the DFM  was 
suitable and did not present too much risk for Mr F. It also said the pension it recommended  
had competitive charges 
 
The complaint was referred  to this service and it was considered by an investigator. She 
thought the complaint should  be upheld. In summary, she said that she that the new SIPP 
had higher charges than the existing personal pension. She also thought that Mr Fs attitude 
to risk was unlikely to have been assessed correctly and the new arrangement  presented 
risks that were higher than were  suitable  for him. 
QWM did not agree with the investigators  assessment.  It said,  in summary:
It couldnt be held responsible for the fraudulent  activities of the DFM  which broke 
contractual agreements in place with QWM. The money was not invested as agreed 
and it immediately reported that issue to the Financial Conduct  Authority,  and 
requested the return of Mr Fs money  to his SIPP.  This was not done.
It said it carried out a thorough and accurate risk assessment  for Mr F and the Mr Fs 
assessed risk attitude was correct. Furthermore, the DFM did not invest  as per 
QWMs instructions. 
It said Mr F had sought the services  of a DFM  which  was not available through his 
personal pension.  He also wanted the option of placing one of his properties into a 
SIPP  which was not possible with the personal pension. 
The client agreement between Mr F and the DFM set out how his money  would be 
invested.
The ongoing adviser charge was taken into account in its comparisons and a DFM  
may buy assets at little or no cost.  
Another ombudsmans  decision that considered the actions of a DFM should be 
considered.
Ref: DRN83746833It was not a requirement  that it provide past or future performance information.  
It had concerns about elements of the investigators suggested  redress   such as 
taking ownership  of the investment  and Mr F returning any future returns from the 
investment. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen a Confidential Client  Review Form (or fact find) from 2015 which sets out Mr 
Fs circumstances. This records that he was a company  director  of a catering company and 
a public house  earning about £45,000 a year. It was recorded  he had three buy-to-let 
properties and two commercial properties which generated  an income of £13,000 a year. It 
was set out that he had one personal  pension worth about £60,000.  No other pensions are 
recorded. The following notes  were  made:
Client admits that he is not a professional investor  although is aware of the "fundamental 
principles" of investing. Client knows about the various asset classes  and like the idea of a 
multi asset  investment approach. Client would like to invest  in a fund that can take 
advantage of market circumstances to derive a return. Client  likes the idea of active 
management and in particular a fund manager  who would have discretion to buy and sell 
investments instantly on his behalf to take advantage of short  term opportunities.
And:
Client has a number  of property investments and in particular  2 commercial properties.  
Client likes the idea of potentially moving one into a sipp for tax benefits. As such the client 
has asked me to only consider pension wrappers that offer the ability  to hold direct 
commercial property.
And:
Although client is seeking to take more  risk client does agree with risk profile score of a 7/10 
with distribution technology's risk profiler. As such client is comfortable with a risk profile 7 
investment.
A risk assessment was completed. This was made up of 20 questions which  were  designed 
to elicit Mr Fs attitude to risk. In question 20 Mr F indicated he had  a, moderate attitude to 
risk  which was the second highest  grading  on a scale from 1 to 5. 
I have seen a QWM  letter for Mr F which is dated  12 October 2015. This set out QWMs  
recommendations and advised that Mr F switch  his personal pension  to a SIPP and then the 
money managed  under  the DFM. The report set out that Mr Fs attitude to risk was 7 on a 
scale of 1 to 10  or highest medium. This was described as:
Your aim is to be somewhat speculative with your investments in the hope of high
returns. The risk to your capital Is high, and the value of the original investment may go
down significantly as well as up significantly.  Reasonably speculative  portfolios typically
have a higher  proportion  in equities  and various global asset classes.  You understand that
investment returns cannot be guaranteed,  and you accept that you might  get back less
Ref: DRN83746834than you put in, especially in the short term.
In the report it was discussed  that:
You stated that you are an experienced property investor and you are considering
whether you should  purchase an additional  property through an approved pension
vehicle. You want to initially build up your pension  pot before any property purchase.
And:
You intend to retire fully in around  16 years' time at age 65. You have a pension
with Aviva and you have enquired as to whether there would be any merit in
switching this to another  provider.
In terms of the switch  to the SIPP is was stated:
The reasons for recommending a SIPP are:
You have  requested that a provider  is chosen  that can facilitate a potential property
purchase in the future. During the interim  period, you require active fund
management from a reputable regulated  fund manager.
In terms of the DFM it was set out that:
We discussed the various ways you could achieve your present objectives as outlined
above. You appreciate that a degree of risk has to be taken in order  to meet  your
objectives and provide  a reasonable level of return over that typically  offered by deposit
savings vehicles. I therefore recommend that you invest into a Discretionary Fund
Management Service (DFM). The reasons for recommending a DFM are:
A DFM reflects your stated aims  and objectives.
It will provide  the potential for capital growth over the medium  to long term.
It allows you access to a range of professionally  managed funds with which to create 
an appropriate portfolio.
You do not wish to be involved in the day to day running of your portfolio.  The DFM 
will make  investment  decisions on your behalf,  ensuring that the portfolio remains 
within your established risk profile and stated objectives.
Using a DFM provides great  flexibility; there is no fixed  term and you can make
additional contributions or withdraw  funds  at any time, usually without penalty.
Investment Funds
(DFM) will select individual funds on your behalf. In line with your established  risk profile, 
investment objectives  and any other  parameters set out in your agreement  with them. 
Details of the funds chosen will be confirmed by (DFM).
The funds that make up the portfolio  will perform at different  rates, according to market
conditions. If left unchecked, the asset allocation will drift away  from the original target
asset allocation,  meaning that the risk profile  of the portfolio will change  over time. In
Ref: DRN83746835order to combat this, (DFM) will 'rebalance' the portfolio on a quarterly basis.  Rebalancing Is 
where the investment in each asset  class is brought back in line with the target asset  
allocation, thereby maintaining a consistent  risk profile.
You should remember that unit prices and the value of your investment can fall as well
as rise and there is no guarantee  you will receive  a return  of your original capital. Past
performance is no guarantee  of future  returns.
I confirm that these funds  are consistent  with your attitude towards investment risk.
I have also seen the QWMs due diligence as to the DFM before it referred its clients to it for 
fund management  purposes. It did undertake various investigations into the DFM. 
QWM sent a letter to the DFM on 2 December 2015: It set out:
I am writing to confirm that £53,000  (Fifty Three Thousand Pounds)  has
been sent to (DFM) from Liberty  SIPP in respect of the above client.
Using the Dynamic Planner risk profiling tool, I can confirm that the client's
ATR is 7 out of 10 - Highest Medium Risk.
Please invest in line with the Discretionary Fund Management agreement.
The DFM  sent a letter dated 8 January 2016 to QWM. This set out that
We confirm that we intend to invest the client's funds in line with the client's attitude  to risk 
(ATR) as notified by you, namely (High end) Medium  Risk.
We confirm that the asset allocation for a (High end) Medium  Risk client would normally  be 
as follows:
60% Fixed Interest
17.5% Equity-ETFs
12.5% Equity-UCITS
10% Cash
% Other
We have temporarily invested the moneys  in the OWG Bond paying  8% as per our 
Investment strategy  see attachment. The amount invested will be reduced to £50000 and 
the balance (£3000) will be held in cash until such time as we invest  in line with the above 
distribution.
 
the switch to the SIPP
It is documented that Mr F wanted  the opportunity of investing in property with his pension.  
That wasnt  something  he could  achieve through the existing personal pension.  One of the 
ways he could do that was by using  a SIPP. It was also recorded  that he would like to have 
the option of using a DFM. Both of these  requirements were  set out in QWMs 
Ref: DRN83746836recommendation letter. In terms of the investment in property, that is plausible   Mr F 
already had several property investments and had his own business.  This does present an 
opportunity for such properties to form part of his SIPP and therefore benefit from such  
factors as tax reliefs. Therefore, I do believe there  are likely reasons for the switch   and I 
would have thought that Mr F would have disputed that if it was not correct  it was clearly 
set out in the advisers recommendation. 
In terms of the costs  of doing so, I do not believe a clear comparison was set out between  
the existing personal  pension  and the SIPP and DFM arrangement. But the costs were  not 
particularly high for the new arrangement  and I dont believe it likely that this would have led 
to Mr F rejecting the switch. 
Bearing all the circumstances I mind I do not believe the advice to switch to the SIPP was 
unsuitable. 
  
DFM
The switch  to the SIPP did not necessitate the use of a DFM so I have considered the 
suitability of that arrangement. In terms of the level of investment risk, Mr F was documented 
as willing  to accept  risk, although the risk level is disputed.  Mr Fs representative has said 
that only lower levels  of risk would  be acceptable.  
I have noted that the agreement between QWM and the DFM  sets out the range of permitted  
investments. These are generally  accepted assets  and securities  dealt with on recognised 
exchanges. Unregulated investments are not permitted, nor illiquid investments.  In general I 
would say that the agreed types  of asset or investment would be appropriate for Mr F in 
terms of making up a portfolio or fund for him. 
Whilst I have not seen an agreement between QWM and the DFM which  set out exactly 
what assets would make up a portfolio for a client with a given level of risk acceptance, the 
letter from the DFM to QWM does set out what would normally  be envisaged for Mr F. That 
portfolio, with its high level of fixed interest  assets and lower level of collective equity 
investment would in my view be appropriate  for Mr F. Mr Fs answers  to the risk assessment 
questions does suggest an acceptance of risk and a portfolio that would fluctuate in value. 
His previous personal  pension  was invested  in a risk based fund which had the same  kind of 
investment risks presented by the DFM  although  arguably the DFM had a wider  
investment mandate. Although, apart  from his pension,  no other collective risk based  
investment are recorded, Mr F had invested in buy-to-let  properties. 
In summary,  I dont believe the evidence is the DFM presented more risk than he wished to 
take. The evidence  is that investment risk would  be acceptable  and Mr Fs answers to the 
risk assessment do suggest  at least a medium risk acceptance. This evidences  that he 
wasnt averse to taking risks with his money.  
I understand that the DFM may not have invested according to the mandate  agreed with 
QWM. But I do not believe QWM should  be held liable for that, bearing in mind  that I do not 
believe, on balance,  it gave unsuitable advice to switch  to the SIPP  and invest in the DFM.  
Ref: DRN83746837my provisional decision
I do not currently intend to uphold the complaint or make any award.
It is my understanding the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme is currently  considering  
claims in respect of the DFM. Mr F may wish to contact this service. 
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8374683