K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained to BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd (BlackStar) about  the pension  
investment advice he received. He said the recommended investments were too high risk.
background
In August  2015,  BlackStar recommended that Mr B transfer the benefits he held in an 
occupational pension scheme  and two personal pensions to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). They  advised Mr B to invest into Dolphin Capital, in Best International  
Lateral Eco Parks and in Beaufort Securities. 
In February 2017,  Mr B raised a complaint  with Beaufort Securities. Their discretionary fund 
management service  had been  suspended and Mr B was worried  about whether he would 
get his funds back. During the review of that complaint, BlackStar  confirmed they advised 
Beaufort Securities  to invest Mr Bs portfolio at a risk level of nine out of ten (one being the 
lowest risk and ten being the highest risk).
Mr B complained about BlackStars advice, he said the Beaufort Securities portfolio was 
supposed to reduce the overall  risk of his investment. He was prepared to accept a medium- 
high level of risk, not high risk.
BlackStar said their advice was suitable for Mr Bs circumstances but Beaufort Securities 
hadnt invested their portfolio appropriately.  
An adjudicator assessed Mr Bs complaint  and recommended it should be upheld. He said 
the advice to transfer Mr Bs pensions wasnt appropriate and the subsequent investments 
were, overall, too high risk.
BlackStar said the advice  to transfer was suitable  for Mr Bs circumstances;  his primary 
issue was to do with the Beaufort Securities portfolio. They had agreed to assess  Mr Bs loss 
comparing his portfolio to a recommended  index.  BlackStar said this should  be done when 
the two unregulated investments had matured.
Mr B didnt accept the alternative offer made  by BlackStar and asked for an ombudsmans to 
review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The trigger  for Mr Bs complaint seems to have  been the Beaufort Securities portfolio. 
BlackStar initially raised a complaint on his behalf,  and when he became aware that 
BlackStar had instructed  Beaufort Securities to invest at high risk, nine of ten; Mr B 
complained about the advice he received from BlackStar.
Mr Bs complaint is essentially about risk. He said hed agreed a medium-high  level of risk 
and that he was told the Beaufort Securities portfolio was included  to reduce the overall risk 
of his portfolio  but it hadnt.
Ref: DRN89671742In May 2015, Mr B met with an unregulated  introducer who completed a BlackStar fact find 
and risk questionnaire.  Mr B was recorded  as having five personal  pension plans along with 
benefits in an occupational pension  scheme.
Mr Bs retirement objectives were  detailed as; 
consolidating the pensions for ease  of administration; 
doesnt like the current  pensions being  reliant on the stock  market;
concerned about paying multiple fees for multiple  pensions;
would  like the pensions to work harder; and 
he was aware his funds could go up or down but was hopeful for long term growth.
A SIPP checklist was completed. The last section of the form listed a number of 
investments which  appeared to be, or have,  underlying unregulated bonds.  The form stated: 
please ask the client to indicate  which investments they may be interested in, and in what 
proportions
It was noted Mr B had interest in Dolphin Capital GmbH Loan Notes  and Lateral Eco Village. 
Its not clear how the investments were  described to Mr B and whether they were put in 
context with more  mainstream,  regulated collective investments. There was no evidence  that 
Mr B had experience  or knowledge  of those types  of investments and they appear  to have 
been brought to his attention by the introducer,  on behalf of BlackStar.
In June 2015, BlackStar sent an introductory  letter  to Mr B. They said he had been assessed 
as having a high attitude to investment risk. They would look into whether he should  leave 
his pensions where they were, the suitability  of transferring them  and any proposed  
investments. Alternative investments were  described as offering the highest level of returns  
with the greatest amount  of investment risk.
Notes of a telephone interview held with Mr B in August 2015 stated that he agreed with 
having a medium-high attitude to risk and considered himself to be a moderately  
experienced investor. Mr Bs perception was his existing pensions werent making a lot of 
money and he wanted  them to work harder.
BlackStar recommended Mr B to transfer his occupational pension benefits and personal  
pensions to a SIPP. This would  provide him with better access  and control  of his pension 
benefits. In addition it would reduce the volatility  of his investments whilst being  able to 
invest in more aggressive investments. His existing plans wouldnt meet his objectives.
The investment recommendation was to invest:
£23,000 into Dolphin  Capital  GmbH
£22,000 into Best International - Lateral Eco Parks
~£92,500 with the Discretionary Fund  Manager - Beaufort Securities
Following a telephone conversation with Mr B the above recommendations were  adjusted  to:
£35,000 into Dolphin  Capital  GmbH
£35,000 into Lateral Eco Parks
~£67,500 - Beaufort Securities.
Ref: DRN89671743The adviser said: the first two investments named above are non-regulated  and higher risk 
than the Discretionary Fund Management Service. If you are at all unsure about proceeding 
with these investments  you should not do so. It is possible  to invest  your whole pension 
through the Discretionary Fund  Manager - Beaufort Securities.
BlackStar described an example of a medium high portfolio as:
UK Equity 41%
US Equity 27%
Far East Equity 11%
Property 11%
European Equity 7%
Fixed Interest 3%
BlackStar instructed  Beaufort Securities to invest Mr Bs portfolio with them in line with the 
BlackStar Wealth Total Return Model Porfolio  risk scale 9.
The factsheet for the fund detailed investments would be spread  across the following asset  
classes and geographic areas:
Fixed Interest 20%
UK Equites 25%
Developing Market  Equites 12%
Emerging Market Equities 23%
Alternatives 15%
Cash 5%
UK 30%
Europe excluding  UK 10%
US 35%
Emerging Markets 23%
Other 2%
The risk range of the fund was described as: On a scale  of 1-10, with 1 being  lowest  risk 
and 10 being highest risk, Beaufort Wealth would anticipate the collection of funds within  the 
portfolio to expose an investor to a level of risk at 9  high risk profile.
The anticipated returns for the portfolio were  7.3%  per year.
Of the funds transferred to Beaufort  Securities,  over £26,000 was invested in Carduus 
Housing Plc 6.25% bond and just over £36,000 in Silex plc 8% secured bonds  31/12/2020 .
Its clear that the BlackStar adviser knew the alternatives investments were higher risk than 
the proposed  Beaufort Securities portfolio. And I would agree with this. The high risk portfolio 
with Beaufort  Security  aimed to provide  a return of 7.3% per year.  This compares to the 
yearly yields  of the alternative investments  of 10% for the Dolphin Capital loan notes and 
10.31% for the Eco Lateral Park bonds.
In general, the yields offered by bonds  are an indicator  of risk. The higher the interest rate 
the higher the risk. So with the alternative  investments  being  higher risk than the proposed 
high risk Beaufort Securities portfolio, the recommendation  was more risky than Mr Bs 
agreed attitude to risk of medium-high.
Ref: DRN89671744Given the unsuitability  of the investment recommendation, and that the selling of the existing 
pension benefits  was primarily to facilitate the subsequent investments, I have considered 
the pension transfer advice.
Firstly, BlackStar  have  explained that Mr B wanted greater flexibility to access his pension  
benefits. However, that wasnt an appropriate  reason to consider a transfer. Mr B was just 
over 40 years old at the time of advice  and wasnt in a position  to draw benefits  from his 
pension until at least age 55. This could have been  a decision made much nearer the time.
It was also stated that Mr B had concerns about  the volatility  of the stock market.  Of the 
expected transfer values  totalling over £140,000; around £48,500 was from Mr Bs 
occupational pension scheme  and £36,530 from With-Profits funds. Given  Mr B didnt have 
investment risk through  his occupational  pension scheme and With-Profits funds smooth 
investment returns;  I think the advice actually increased the potentially volatility  of Mr Bs 
pensions rather than reducing it.
In relation to the occupational pension advice, for the industry wide pension  review, the 
regulator published a list showing the growth rate that might  have  been  considered  
achievable. In addition the regulator  had for many years up to 2005 been  publishing growth  
rates. This practice was continued beyond 2005  by the Financial Ombudsman  Service  for 
use in similar loss assessment calculations and published on our website.
Whilst the rates published by this service  are not upper limits on what investment returns 
could be achieved, they do provide a reasonable benchmark for likely investment returns. If 
the critical yield for a pension transfer was lower  than the published growth rates,  it is 
reasonable to consider the scheme benefits were likely to be matched  or possibly improved 
upon. However if the critical  yield was higher, it was considered less likely that the scheme  
benefits could  be matched  and so there could be a lower income in retirement. 
The comparison of the critical  yields calculated by BlackStar and this services published 
growth rates were:
Taking benefits at age 60  7.3%  critical yield compared to 4.6% growth  rate
Taking benefits at age 67  5.67% critical yield compared to 4.9% growth rate
So if the returns were  similar to the published growth rates,  Mr B is likely to have lower  
retirement benefits following the transfer  of his pension.
Even if the view from BlackStars  recommendation report, that a return  of 6% per year was 
achievable, Mr B would be taking a greater  risk to broadly  mirror his existing benefits  by age 
67. There doesnt appear to be a good reason  to take the additional risks unless there  is a 
reasonable probability of improving his retirement  benefits. Therefore, Im not persuaded the 
transfer of Mr Bs occupational pension benefits was in his best interests.
I note Mr Bs attitude to investment risk was higher than his existing with-profit  funds, 
however, before going to the cost of switching a pension and incurring ongoing SIPP  costs, 
fund switching within the existing pensions couldve been considered.
Switching Mr Bs personal pensions to the high risk investments  within the SIPP  wasnt  
suitable. Whilst Mr B did have a medium high attitude to investment risk, Im not persuaded 
his circumstances  and capacity for loss mirrored  his outlook.
Ref: DRN89671745Apart from his pensions, Mr B had £4,000  in a savings account  and £2,000  in a current  
account. Im not satisfied  that he had the capacity to recoup any substantial  losses that could 
have arisen from investing at high risk. So I dont think it was suitable  advice  to recommend 
a high risk portfolio or alternative investments.
With suitable advice  BlackStar ought to have recommended retaining Mr Bs occupational 
benefits and consider the options for some  possible  fund switches.
BlackStar havent agreed that their advice was unsuitable. They said the pension  transfer  
advice was suitable, but would be willing to consider whether Mr B has suffered a loss due to 
the composition of the investment portfolio.
However, BlackStar said resolving the matter now wouldnt be in Mr Bs best interests 
because they cant purchase the alternative investments and Mr B wouldnt be in a position 
to repay  an undertaking when they mature.
In my view to avoid this problem BlackStar  should pay sufficient redress  directly to Mr B so 
that he can repay any returns achieved from the alternative investments.
It is also clear  to me that part of the issues encountered by Mr B were as a result of Beaufort 
Securities investing  their portfolio differently from the approach detailed in their factsheet. 
The actual investments lacked the diversification  which was described.  BlackStar  shouldnt  
have to cover the costs  of Beaufort  Securities  error  and this should be taken into account in 
redressing Mr B.
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably  
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr B's circumstances and objectives when he invested.  
what should  BlackStar do?
To compensate Mr B fairly,  BlackStar  must:
Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the combined actual  and notional  value there  is 
a loss and compensation is payable. If the combined actual and notional value is 
greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
BlackStar should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, BlackStar should  pay into Mr B's pension plan to increase its value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
Ref: DRN89671746If BlackStar  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr B's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr B's actual or expected  
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would  
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr B £200 for the trouble caused by unnecessarily transferring his pensions.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BlackStar  deducts  income  tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr B how much has been taken  off. BlackStar should give Mr B a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. BlackStar should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If BlackStar  is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose  of calculation. BlackStar may require that Mr B provides an undertaking to 
pay BlackStar any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension  plan. BlackStar  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
In this instance BlackStar should pay sufficient redress directly to Mr B so that he can set 
Ref: DRN89671747aside the funds to repay BlackStar  when  the Dolphin Capital and Eco Lateral park 
investments mature.
notional value (Beaufort Securities  investments)
This is a notional calculation of what the investment would have been worth at the end date 
had it produced a return using  the FTSE UK Private Investors Stock Market Balanced Index.
I have chosen  the above  index as it broadly reflects the composition of the BlackStar Wealth  
Total Return Model Porfolio  risk scale 9. This would represent the value of this element of 
Mr Bs pension  investments had Beaufort  Securities invested in line with BlackStars 
instruction.
fair value
For the transfer of occupational pension scheme benefits:
BlackStar should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review  
methodology, as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017
For the switched  personal pensions:
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if BlackStar totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr B wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index 
is close enough to allow  me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given 
Mr B's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that BlackStar  Wealth Management Ltd should pay 
Ref: DRN89671748the amount calculated  as set out above.
BlackStar Wealth Management Ltd should provide details of its calculation  to Mr B in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8967174