K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr L has complained J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, trading as the Post Office 
Card Account, wont refund them for mostly  cash machine transactions which  Mr L didnt 
make or authorise.
The estate  is represented in this complaint by Mrs C, Mr Ls daughter.
background
Mr L died in July 2017. Hed been  in hospital  from early July after collapsing  at the care 
home hed been  living  in. Mr L had been in the home having respite care from April 2017.
Mrs C noticed that there was no money left in Mr Ls Post Office  card account. She believed 
that the Post Office  had allowed Mr Ls friend and carer (who  Ill call Mrs A) had used Mr Ls 
card without his authority.  She felt J P Morgan (JPM)  should  refund all the money  Mrs A had 
taken from Mr Ls account. For the period 9 October 2014 until the 26 May 2017 this was 
calculated to be £35,840.80.
Mrs C had also been in touch with the Department of Work and Pensions to complain  about  
Mrs A as she was concerned about the oversight shed  had over her fathers pension. She 
also raised safeguarding  concerns with the local council.
JPM rejected Mrs Cs claim  as they could  see all transactions were made with the genuine 
card and PIN. Theyd  also been unaware  until Mrs C had told them  Mr L had been 
suffering from Alzheimers from 2012 onwards. Mrs C brought a complaint to the 
ombudsman service on behalf of her fathers estate.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included what Mrs C told us about the person 
whod used her fathers card and PIN. She also obtained a lot of records from the local 
council providing  Mr L with care. This included their physical, health and financial 
assessments as well as records of direct  payment. In August 2016 Mr L opened a bank 
account with Mrs A who Mr L had nominated as the person helping him out with his direct 
payments from the council. Our investigator didnt believe there was enough evidence to 
suggest the transactions hadnt  been made with Mr Ls authority. She said she wasnt going  
to ask JPM to do anything further.
Mrs C disagreed with this outcome. Shes  asked an ombudsman  to consider this complaint 
on the estates  behalf.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  as our 
investigator and for roughly similar  reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing thats  had a marked impact on the decision Im making  here. So when 
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
Ref: DRN85145312things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both JPM and Mrs C, on behalf of the estate, have told us. Weve also got detailed  
evidence from the local council who were responsible for assessing  Mr Ls care needs.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 27 January 2020. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Mrs C knew  about the Post Office account  Mr L held as well as the bank account 
held jointly with Mrs A.
Whilst certainly Mr L was getting  frail towards the end of his life, theres nothing to 
suggest he was mentally incapable  of making  his own decisions. Ive reviewed the 
medical evidence  both Mrs C provided and the assessments  undertaken by the local 
council.
I dont dispute  Mr L had Alzheimers but this is a degenerative disease  and its 
possible he was still well and able to make his own decisions as late as 2016.
I say this because  when Mr L was being  assessed for direct payments  in September 
2016, there are notes  from the council that state  he was alert and responded well to 
the care being  given  to him by Mrs A.
Theres also a detailed financial assessment (a Statement of Financial Circumstance)  
conducted in September  2016. This confirms Mrs A held a DWP Appointeeship on 
Mr Ls behalf. What follows is a detailed review of Mr Ls finances at the time. Im 
sure  from reading this  this was completed  with Mr L playing a full part in 
response. He seemed to have a good understanding of what his finances were and 
was able to confirm his balance in both his Post Office account  and the bank account 
he held jointly with Mrs A.
This indicates Mr L both knew and authorised  Mrs A to make  withdrawals from his 
Post Office account with his card. It certainly doesnt suggest  Mr L was unaware of 
the status of his account. We know from JPM Mr L was receiving regular statements.
Ive also reviewed Mr Ls Post Office  account statements from 2011 until the last 
transactions in 2017.
I specifically looked at and analysed four random periods: 15 August to 
19 September 2011; 28 August to 1 October 2015;  16 February to 2 April 2015 and 
finally 30 January  2017  to 1 April 2017.
The withdrawals are pretty similar  for all four periods. In 2011  there  were  15 cash  
withdrawals for £1,260  (roughly).  It seems  Mr L may have been withdrawing smaller 
amounts but making more frequent visits to withdraw money.  
In 2013 there were  10 withdrawals totalling  £1,415. In 2015  there  were  9 withdrawals 
for £1,420 and in 2017 also 10 withdrawals.  The amount withdrawn had increased to 
£1,890.
None of this seems out of character. Theres also no indication  how Mr L would have 
been paying for himself: food, care, bills and travel at a minimum without  these 
withdrawals.  
In fact over the whole period of the statements I believe Mr L was regularly 
withdrawing his whole pension to live on.
Ref: DRN85145313Mrs C has suggested her father  was upset  shed never received £18,000 after hed 
signed something Mrs A had given him. He understood this was money for his 
daughter. But theres  nothing to show that Mr L had £18,000 in any of the accounts  
Mrs C has told us about.
Mrs C has suggested that her father was subject to economic  abuse.  This is a serious 
allegation. But overall and taking into consideration what the local council has shared with 
us, Im not able to say that was the case. I should  stress that the local council  were  the 
professional care givers  and none  of their detailed assessment suggests Mr L was being  
abused. In fact the opposite.  
I appreciate things are often not as cut and dry as they seem  and I can only consider the 
issues before me based on the evidence  Ive seen. I am more  than aware that economic 
abuse does happen and the elderly  are particularly vulnerable. However Ive not seen 
anything here to make me believe this is what happened here.
Even if Mr L didnt make  the withdrawals himself, Im satisfied what  Ive seen indicates  he 
authorised Mrs A to make these on his behalf. Therefore Im not able to ask JPM to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is not to uphold  the estate of Mr Ls complaint 
against J.P. Morgan Europe Limited,  trading as the Post Office Card  Account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C, on the 
estates behalf,  to accept or reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8514531