K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Skipton Building Society  (Skipton) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1995.  Mr and Mrs D paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The mortgage  was in joint names whilst the cover was in Mr Ds name only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  Ive 
failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach  what I think 
is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I explain why below.
I think Skipton made Mr and Mrs D aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they 
chose to take it. 
I say that because Skipton has been  able to provide a copy of the mortgage application 
form. To get the PPI, Mr and Mrs D had to tick for it on the mortgage application form and 
then complete a separate application form for it. I have  noted that when  the form asked if 
Mr and Mrs D wanted PPI, they ticked a Yes  box. Had Mr and Mrs D not wanted to take the 
PPI for Mr D they could  have ticked the No box. And because there was a No box, Mr and 
Mrs D ought to have  understood this was something they could say No to. There is no 
language in the documentation that implies  or states  that they had to take the cover to get 
the mortgage. So, on balance I think that Mr and Mrs D took the cover  and knew  that they 
had a choice about doing so. 
Skipton felt it sold the PPI on a non-advised basis to Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D felt they were 
advised to take the policy.  But in this complaint I dont think  I need  to decide whether the policy 
was recommended or not as I dont  think it makes a difference to the outcome of the complaint. I 
say this because  if advice was given, Skipton needed to take reasonable steps to make  sure the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D and I think it was suitable  for Mr and Mrs D based on their 
circumstances at the time. 
I say this because  Mr D was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Mr D seems to have had a need for the cover. 
Mr D told us that he had other means he could have relied on in that circumstance. The PPI 
policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay Mr D would have received and would have 
covered him for up to 12 months if he was unable to work because  of accident, sickness, or 
if he lost his job. So, considering all of the above  and the potentially serious implications of 
defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think they wouldve found  the PPI useful.
Ref: DRN87066442The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs D.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs D, Skipton also had to give them  
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
I know Mr and Mrs D feel strongly and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise theyll  
be disappointed  by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  think 
Mr and Mrs D lost out because of anything Skipton may have done wrong. 
Which means Skipton  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Skipton  will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
When the policy was sold,  Skipton expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit share 
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because  
Skipton didnt tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Skipton has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Skipton has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Skipton should  also pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any extra interest 
they paid because of that.
Skipton should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month  because  the commission  
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Skipton should  also pay Mr and 
Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment.
 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN87066443my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Skipton Building Society does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Skipton  Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept  
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8706644