K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the advice he was given by Mansion Park Limited to transfer deferred 
benefits from the British  Steel Pension  Scheme  (BSPS)  into a Personal  Pension Plan (PPP). 
He says that he felt pressured into the transfer  and that the proper steps in assessing the 
suitability of the transfer werent followed by Mansion Park. He says that, had a proper 
investigation into the transfer been carried out and suitable advice given, he wouldnt have 
given up the valuable benefits in BSPS and lost secure income in retirement.
background
The background to this decision  was set out in my provisional decision of 19 May 2020,  a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I set out my reasons for finding that the advice  given by Mansion 
Park was unsuitable for Mr B. In short, the risk level needed to match  the scheme benefits 
given up is incompatible with Mr Bs attitude  to risk. Mansion Park did not present the 
options to Mr B in a balanced way, seemingly  from the outset it had a pre-determined bias 
towards transfer. I concluded Mansion  Park hadnt taken Mr Bs circumstances into account 
and acted in his best interests when it advised him to transfer.
In response Mr B said that he agreed  with the content of the provisional decision but was 
angry that Mansion Park had tried to switch the blame for the transfer to him.
Mansion Park said in response, that the advice  it gave met the objectives that were clearly  
laid out. It says the advice  it gave, alongside Mr Bs relative low income  requirement  in 
retirement, means that Mr B has the flexibility he requires, the income he requires and the 
possibility of increased death benefits.
It argues the critical yields and hurdle  rates arent relevant if the client isnt looking to 
replicate the benefits of the scheme. And in Mr Bs circumstances it is clear he did not need 
the level of guaranteed income  available with the BSPS. It says that flexibility  and increased  
death benefits were  more  important to Mr B. And the advice given  allows him to achieve this 
without an impact on his requirements in retirement.
Mansion Park say that its models  show that Mr B wouldnt  need  to make income withdrawals 
and so the points made  that the fund could decrease over time is highly  unlikely. Mansion 
Park says that it appears we agree with the advice given but then counter and revert to the 
fact that Mr B is giving  up a guaranteed income.  It says the decision to transfer is never 
taken lightly  but in this case it believes the advice was tailored  to Mr Bs precise  needs  and 
objectives, that were  not otherwise available within the scheme.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. Mansions Park response to my provisional decision is largely a 
summary of arguments it had already  put forward and that were addressed in my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN87468082Mansion Park argues that its advice  met Mr Bs objectives and needs   and due to Mr Bs 
financial circumstances he had no real need  to draw  on this fund in retirement. Ive already 
made clear my view of the Mr Bs stated objectives in my provisional decision  (attached). But 
put simply,  I dont agree  with Mansion Parks  premise for the advice being suitable.  
Mr B was clearly a cautious investor, who was largely reliant on this fund for his retirement 
planning. He came to Mansion Park for advice due to his concerns about a reduction in 
value of his BSPS  scheme. Yet Mansion Parks justification for the transfer largely seems to 
be that because  Mr Bs outgoings in retirement  will be relatively  low, his capacity for risk is 
high (despite all the evidence  to the contrary)  and that the potential of losing a very 
comfortable income in retirement wasnt important to him as he could pay the bills. Yet the 
evidence shows that Mr B was looking to protect the benefits hed built up in the BSPS and 
potentially improve on these. 
The advisers own recollections of his meetings with Mr B state that he was very concerned  
about the loss of any value from his deferred pension. Yet Mansion Park now, in direct 
contradiction, say that the value of his deferred  pension is immaterial to Mr B in justification 
of the risk its advice  has put these benefits at.
Mansion Park argues that flexibility and increased death benefits were  more important to Mr 
B than retaining the value of his fund to use in retirement.  Again  just considering Mr Bs 
attitude to risk and concern about  the decrease  in his BSPS benefits paints a different 
picture. And Mansion Park itself earlier  in the complaints process gave a reason for its 
justification for transfer as Mr Bs desire not to sacrifice  10% of the benefits  if the scheme 
went into the PPF. The conclusion that Mr B was more concerned with flexibility and the 
potential for increased  death benefits  (rather  than protecting and building  a comfortable 
income in retirement) seem to have  come from Mansion Parks latter justification for the 
advice rather than from Mr B himself. Furthermore, the advice was not given on the 
presumption Mr B wouldnt  be taking  any income from the fund.  So the potential advantages 
in terms of death benefits on transfer  are lessened  when this is considered.
What does Mansion Park need  to do?
My aim is to put Mr B, as closely as possible,  into the position hed be but for Mansion Parks  
unsuitable advice.  Reinstatement  of Mr Bs deferred  benefits isnt possible.  Therefore, 
Mansion Park Limited should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension  review 
methodology as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
As with the investigator, and for the reasons given,  my view is that had Mr B not transferred 
his pension funds to the PPP, he would have  opted  to join the BSPS  II. One of Mr Bs main 
concerns was the 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement  within the PPF.  But the 
BSPS II wouldnt  cut the starting entitlement for deferred members.  Also,  if Mr Bs marital 
status didnt change,  his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension  at the date of 
death, and this would be calculated as if no lump  sum was taken at retirement. For service 
after 5 April 1988 and up to 5 April 1997,  the scheme would include a Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP) element increase  in line with CPI, capped at 3% pa. Mr Bs service accrued 
between 5 April 1997 and 5 April 2005 would  also be increased in line with CPI, capped  at 
5% pa, and then 2.5% pa for his service thereafter.
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS II which should  be used for comparison 
purposes.
Ref: DRN87468083This calculation should  be carried out using the most  recent financial assumptions published 
by the FCA at the date of the actual calculation. Mansion Park Limited may wish to contact 
the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the 
State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
The compensation in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mr B would  have  been yet to take a tax-free cash sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
Where we consider  that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount that might 
exceed £150,000, this service may recommend that the business pays  the balance.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I also 
recommend that Mansion Park Limited pays Mr B the balance.
Its unlikely that Mr B can accept an offer made by Mansion Park Limited and go to court  to 
ask for the balance  of the compensation owing  to him. And so Mr B may want  to consider 
getting independent advice.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr B 
within 90 days of the date Mansion Park receives  notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per 
year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in 
excess of 90 days, that it takes Mansion Park to pay Mr B this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  about Mansion Park Limited and I require it to undertake  the 
above calculation  and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr B accordingly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Ref: DRN87468084Simon Hollingshead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87468085provisional decision of 19 May 2020
Complaint
Mr B is unhappy  with the advice he was given  by Mansion Park Limited to transfer deferred  benefits 
from the British  Steel Pension  Scheme (BSPS) into a Personal  Pension Plan (PPP). He says that he 
felt pressured into the transfer and that the proper  steps in assessing the suitability  of the transfer 
werent followed by Mansion Park. He says that, had a proper investigation into the transfer been 
carried out and suitable  advice been given, he wouldnt have given up the valuable benefits in BSPS 
and lost secure income in retirement.
Background
Mr B received several suitability reports from Mansion  Park, owing to a change in the Cash Equivalent 
Transfer Value (CETV) offered by the BSPS.  The following details were recorded  in the final version 
sent to Mr B, as amended on 17 July 2017.
At the time of advice, Mr Bs financial circumstances were recorded as follows:
He was 45 years  old, and employed as a design manager within  the steel  industry
He was married  with two dependent children
His net monthly income was £2,194, with household  outgoings of approximately £2,000 His 
wife was recorded as earning £30,000, but no net monthly figure  was recorded. His home  
was valued at roughly  £400,000, jointly owned and with a remaining mortgage of £118,000
Mr B held £5,000 in investments but had no other savings
Mr Bs preferred  retirement  age was recorded  as 65, with the option to retire  at 60 if possible
He was a member of his then employers defined contribution scheme  and had been since 
June 2016.
Mr B was initially offered a transfer value of £216,495 in March 2017.  This was then increased to 
£545,643 on 9 June  2017,  which  was guaranteed for three months. Mr B was described  as being 
aware of the issues surrounding the BSPS at the time,  which  he had also been discussing  with two 
work colleagues. Mansion Park said that they had all come to the conclusion,  before meeting  with its 
adviser, that theyd lost faith in the BSPS  and the scheme trustees. As such, they had asked Mansion  
Park to look at their options.
Mr Bs deferred benefits  with the BSPS were as follows:
He had 26 years  of qualifying service
The scheme allowed Mr B to commute some of his benefits for tax free cash
The pension  income was defined by reference to his final salary and number of years  
service. As at the date of leaving  the scheme in May 2016, his pension would  be £20,450 pa, 
subject to revaluation as below.
It would  be also be revalued in line with RPI for pre and post 1997 excess of GMP pension 
contributions. Post 1988 GMP payments would increase  yearly in line with CPI, capped  at 
3%.
He could  take the pension  early, possibly  starting from age 50  which  at the time was yet to 
be confirmed by the scheme  trustees.  But retirement from age 55 was certainly  possible.
In the event of his death  before retirement, it provided  a refund of contributions plus interest, 
along with a spouses  pension.  After retirement, this would be a five year guarantee of Mr Bs 
full pension and then a reduced spouses pension thereafter.
Mr Bs objectives were  recorded as follows:
Ref: DRN87468086To take personal control  of your deferred British Steel Pension provision
To have  the option of full Flexible Access  Draw  Down at age 55 or in the future and have 
access to tax free cash,  should you wish to do so.
Potential for growth over the medium  to long term of your retirement fund.
To be able to add to this retirement provision  in the future.
To be able to pass your pension provision, in the event  of your death, down to your family.
To increase your retirement  provision,  to enable you, if affordable,  to retire  at age 60, without 
penalties applied.
Mr B was assessed  as being a cautious risk investor. Mansion Park said that Mr B was happy to 
have his pension  invested  in a managed fund and that he was more  comfortable with a cautious 
approach being taken with his portfolio. Given Mr Bs distance from retirement, the potential  for 
investing in higher  risk funds  was discussed, but he still preferred to take a cautious approach  with his 
retirement provision.
Mansion Park described Mr B as having  some knowledge of investments and how they work, based 
upon his membership  of his occupational  pension schemes and his experience of buying shares. Mr 
B was described  as having been comfortable with fluctuations in the value of his investments  in the 
past.
An exploration of the level of income which Mr B and his wife might need in retirement was made, 
with observations that the mortgage was likely to be repaid and they would no longer have financial 
dependants. A monthly expenditure  figure of around £1,000  was calculated by deducting the 
mortgage repayment amount. An example was provided  as to the sustainability of pension funds  
using flexi access drawdown. Mansion  Park concluded  that, even  using conservative assumptions as 
to fund growth, the pension Mr (and Mrs) B would  receive in retirement on the basis of an investment 
of £534,730 (after fees) would comfortably exceed their outgoings.
Mansion Park said:
This is a medium  to long term objective,  which  is important  to you, would not critically impact on 
(you?) and your retirement plans should  it not be achieved. You are however happy to accept some 
risk to the value of the capital in order to achieve better potential returns  and if a loss occurred you 
would be happy to adjust  this objective.
Mansion Park set out the key features  of the BSPSs benefits, but said,  with its own emphasis:
There are, however, advantages to transferring this arrangement to a Personal  Pension Plan:
Flexible access draw down  options from age 55 or in the future, as you desire and depending upon 
your employment status and circumstances.
Potential for capital growth  over medium  to long term.
Pension would continue after your death (providing there are funds available).
Mitigate your personal  taxation in retirement (keep within your Income personal  allowance).
Add to this Plan at any time to increase your retirement provision.
If you die before age 75 it will pass to your nominee  tax free and can be taken as a pension.  If you die 
after 75, the pension will be taxed at the marginal  rate of the beneficiary.
The report showed that for a retirement  age of 65, the critical yield required by a PPP to match the 
benefits given up in the BSPS was 6.2% per annum. This growth rate was described  by Mansion Park 
as being low and achievable, given the past performance  of the proposed investment fund. It added  
that owing to your stated objectives and the uncertainty of the Scheme,  I am comfortable in 
recommending a transfer for you, despite the above figures .
Ref: DRN87468087The growth  needed each  year to match the basic starting pension of the existing scheme, with no 
spouses benefits,  increases or guarantees, known as the hurdle rate, was 2.65%  - also described as 
being achievable. The Transfer Value Analysis  (TVAS) projected that, using  the figures  supplied by 
British Steel, Mr Bs pension from the BSPS at age 65 would be £33,664 pa.
The critical yield which  had been calculated  for the previously provided CETV was 11.4%,  which 
Mansion Park had described as being high  and unachievable. The hurdle rate had been 6.9%,  
which it considered to be achievable.
If the scheme benefits  needed to be transferred into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), the revalued 
pension Mr B could expect at retirement  would  be £27,305 pa. The critical yield to achieve  this was 
8.7%, which Mansion Park again thought was achievable, given the performance of the intended  
portfolio. But it seems this figure was copied from an earlier version of the report.
Mansion Park also said that the tool used to calculate  this wouldnt have taken into account  the 
annual mutual bonus Mr B would get from the pension provider if he were to transfer, so the critical 
yield in reality  should  be lower. 
Taking all of this into account, Mansion  Park said:
I would understand why you wish to transfer your benefits to a Personal Pension/Stakeholder plan 
based on your current circumstances and will advise  you accordingly.
Mansion Park recommended  that Mr B transfer his funds into a PPP instead of the lower charging 
stakeholder plan. It said that this was more  suitable for Mr B because the PPP had a wider choice of 
investment funds.
Mr B was recorded  as not wanting to transfer his benefits into the British Steel Defined  Contribution  
Scheme, as he wanted to keep these funds separate from his employers scheme  he wanted to 
break all ties with his ex-employer - and to also have the ability to retire early, possibly at age 55. 
Mansion Park said that, although the BSPS allowed members to retire from the age of 50 (at the 
trustees discretion), penalties would normally be applied. For illustration  purposes,  it said that the 
percentage of pension  payable at ages 55, 60 and 64 were 70%, 82% and 95% respectively.
It said that a PPP, on the other hand,  would allow him to take benefits  from age 55 if he wished.
In the event  that the scheme benefits were moved to the PPF, Mansion Park said that if Mr B had 
reached normal retirement date, and was receiving a pension, the PPF would generally continue  to 
pay 100%  of that. But the rate of increase in the pension in payment  matching inflation up to 2.5% 
pa for pensionable service  accrued after 6 April 1997  - might be lower than that provided by the 
scheme 
In the event  of the scheme entering  the PPF before  retirement, Mansion Park said that Mr Bs pension  
entitlement would be decreased by 10%. This would  mean  that 90% of the pension accrued 
immediately before  the assessment date would then be revalued in line with inflation, capped  at 5% 
pa for service  accrued before 6 April 2009, and 2.5% pa for service accrued after that. Compensation 
would also be subject to an overall cap  which for the year commencing 1 April 2015 would  be 
£32,761 at age 65, and after the 10% reduction had been applied. Once retirement age was reached,  
the part representing pensionable service after 6 April 1997  would be increased in line with inflation, 
up to 2.5%  pa.
Mansion Park said the following:
Once you transfer  out of your final salary  occupational pension scheme, your benefits  will no longer 
be protected by the Pension Protection Fund. 
Instead, Mr B would be covered by the Financial Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS), which 
would cover 100% of any pension losses in insured  funds if he was still building  up his pension pot.
The Scheme Actuaries had confirmed that the funding of the BSPS  was in deficit  it was funded to 
93%. Mansion Park said that, as Mr B had a significant amount of time before retirement, it was 
questionable as to whether the scheme would-be able to recover  or join the PPF.
Mansion Park said that this uncertainty  had led Mr B to lose faith in the BSPS. There  was also 
publicity relating  to the BSPS becoming  a Zombie Scheme,  which  meant that British  Steel would 
Ref: DRN87468088have no liability for it, in addition to the RPI revaluation moving to CPI. It noted that this had been 
agreed with Tata Steel at Port Talbot.
Mansion Park then gave  the following warning  relating to the loss of guarantees under the scheme:
You should fully understand that on transferring your benefits  from the British Steel Pension Scheme 
the guarantees that you currently  enjoy would  cease  to apply. Your benefits will instead become 
dependent upon the future investment returns achieved by Royal  London and annuity rates at the 
time of retirement  and could be less than under your employers former scheme. It may also not be 
possible to fully replicate the shape/type of benefits  your former scheme  promised due to lack of 
availability in the market place. This is acceptable to you given  your attitude in relation to your 
pension.
Mansion Park recommended  that Mr B should transfer his deferred benefits  to a PPP with Royal 
London. This would be invested in the Governed Portfolio 2. This invested in a range of assets, 
predominantly (48%) in global equities.
Mansion Park observed that this was a slightly higher equity  content than would  normally be 
recommended for a cautious risk investor  which it said would be between  20-40% - but that it had 
discussed this with Mr B and he was happy with the fund choice to achieve potentially  higher returns. 
This investment strategy would be reviewed regularly, Mansion Park said.
It also brought to Mr Bs attention a higher risk fund (with  a greater focus on equities), which  could be 
used until Mr B was closer  to retirement, to then switch into a more cautious fund choice. But Mr B 
maintained that he preferred to take a cautious approach with his pension funds.
The fee for facilitating  the transfer would  be 2% of the transfer value, which  amounted to £10,912. 
This would be taken  from the transferred funds. In addition, a further 0.5% adviser charge  would be 
paid annually,  on a monthly basis, although Mr B was free to cancel this at any point.
The complaint
Mr B submitted the following key points of complaint:
Mansion Park hadnt given  proper consideration to his options, and he wasnt dealt with 
legally or ethically   the decision to transfer wasnt suitable
Throughout the process,  emphasis was placed on time pressures and deadlines. The 
discussions were all about  transferring  if the deadlines could be met, but Mr B has since 
become aware that the starting point for such discussions should be that the transfer was not 
in his best interests.
It was made  clear that the BSPS  would most likely  not exist in the future   it was 
haemorrhaging money. There  was also much talk of an announcement  which  would be made 
shortly  the adviser led Mr B to believe that this would be notification that the BSPS was 
entering the PPF, and no other  potential alternatives to this were  mentioned.
Mr B was misled about  the death benefits  available  from the BSPS. He was told there would  
be a 50% reduction in the pension income for his widow  and children in the event  of his 
death. But he now thought  differently and that the pot held in income drawdown  might well run 
out before his own death.
The answers  hed given for the risk profiling  were steered by the adviser and were  engineered 
to fit the advisers  own target portfolio  and to help rubber  stamp the transaction  at board  
level.
It was Mr Bs belief  that all discussions throughout the process were geared towards the 
transfer  as he was aware had also been the case with other Mansion  Park clients.  He 
hadnt met with anyone  where  the outcome hadnt been the same.  The returns  quoted as 
Ref: DRN87468089being feasible  from the chosen  investment  fund  an average of 9.28% pa - were  unrealistic. 
It was implied that, by age 65, Mr B would have a pension  of pot of around £1.25m, but 
growth levels have been significantly below  those  quoted.
At no point was the alternative of staying with BSPS portrayed  as being  something to be 
considered. All conversations related to the deadline and the risks of not meeting that 
deadline.
When Mr B challenged the critical yield figures as not stacking  up, he was told by the 
adviser that the assumptions were very conservative and were only for illustration  purposes  
they didnt reflect likely growth rates. And as he would  be entering drawdown rather  than 
buying an annuity,  they in any case had less significance.
Despite having reservations about proceeding, Mr B felt that he was being advised by an 
expert in his profession and that he knew what was best for him. And given the time 
pressures, he agreed to go ahead.
The suitability  report was received two months into the three month transfer window, but it 
didnt include specifics such as how much money would  be needed  to buy an annuity, or 
when the drawdown fund might be exhausted. Mr B believed he should  have received 
something with more  detailed and specific information. The report  he received didnt  contain 
enough information for him to be able to make an informed decision,  and also wasnt signed 
and dated.
Only after hed asked  for all documents on record did Mr B realise that his estimated 
drawdown fund would only last until he was 72, or upon revision with updates figures, 84. Had 
he known this, he wouldnt have agreed to the transfer. 
No comparisons with other  providers had been  shared with him  and Mr B felt there  were 
many advantages and disadvantages to each, about which he should  have been consulted.
Mr B was aware of other BSPS  members whod  been strongly  advised  by other firms not to 
transfer their pension funds, and if they didnt  follow  that advice, had been categorised  as 
insistent clients. If hed been advised not to transfer,  he wouldnt have proceeded.
Although Mr B made the adviser aware  of paperwork  from the BSPS  which indicated  that 
transfer values were  likely to increase, the adviser  was insistent that he and other colleagues  
went ahead.
The fees which hed been charged for the transfer were excessive and unreasonable   he 
thought they were an industry standard at the time, but he was now aware  that much lower 
fees are typically charged.
To obtain the same  income  hed have received from the BSPS, hed need a fund value  twice 
that quoted as the mid-estimate in the pension transfer report.
Mr B considered  that the advice given  to him contravened many of the requirements set out in 
the FCAs Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS).
Mansion Parks response to Mr Bs complaint
Mansion Park didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B then referred the complaint to this service.  And in 
its submission to us, a representative for Mansion Park set out what  it considered to be the key 
aspects in response to the complaint, as follows:
Despite the significant  industry attention  on defined benefits transfers and the repeated 
reviews by the regulator  on the subject, a complaint  involving such  a transfer shouldnt be 
viewed with suspicion  by this service. Nor should there be a preconception that a transfer 
would likely be unsuitable.
Ref: DRN874680810The regulator had acknowledged that there will be very good reasons as to why a member  of 
a defined benefit scheme might want to transfer,  and that the pensions environment  had 
changed.
The regulator also recognised that it wasnt simply a case of determining the critical yield 
required to match the scheme benefits  the prominence of this was reduced by the 
introduction of the Appropriate Pension Transfer  Analysis (APTA).
There should be no one size fits all approach to considering defined  benefits transfers. The 
individual circumstances of the consumer  need to be taken into account.
Mr Bs individual circumstances and objectives had been taken into account  by Mansion Park 
and were  fully discussed  with him. That Mansion  Park was involved in a number of transfers 
with other clients  wasnt evidence of a commoditised process.
The reasons for Mr Bs transfer were  clearly  documented and set out in the final response 
letter. But to summarise, the main  drivers  were that the BSPS  was inflexible in terms of the 
income which would be paid, with any early retirement resulting in swingeing cuts to that 
income, and with a restricted lump sum payout on death.
The transfer to the PPP on the other hand meant that he would  be able to retire early without 
financial penalty, would  be able to vary his income, and would  be able to pass on a lump sum 
to his dependants in the event of his death.
The large lump sum received meant that the critical  yield calculated wouldnt have been 
unachievable  that it might be was clearly explained, but this was in any case  not the 
determining factor in Mr Bs decision  to transfer.
Summarizing, the representative said that much of what Mr B had said in his complaint  was wrong. 
But a review  of the documents in any case endorsed  Mansion Parks defence of the complaint, in that 
the reasons to transfer were  specific  to Mr B and denied  that it was not in his best interests. It said 
that Mr B was fully aware of, and understood, the issues  involved and he had plenty of time to 
consider the advantages  and disadvantages  of transferring.
Noting that several of Mr B colleagues had submitted complaints at the same time and using the 
same template, the representative expressed disappointment,  and Mansion Park took exception , 
at the cynical way in which  Mr B and his friends are now trying to use the system  for further gain.
The representative further asserted that it wasnt possible to determine whether Mr B had suffered  
any financial  loss as a result of the transfer,  as even if Mr B had stayed within the BSPS, hed in any 
case have needed to have  transferred into a scheme with less generous benefits  at retirement. It was 
also unknown as to what would happen  with Mr Bs private pension  arrangements up to retirement 
and his employment situation.  It wouldnt therefore be possible to know whether he will be worse  off in 
retirement.
Our investigators assessment
Our investigator looked into this complaint and recommended that it be upheld. Ive summarised  the 
investigators points below:
Mr B hadnt been  recorded as an insistent client. Therefore, irrespective of his awareness of 
the advantages and disadvantages or provision of relevant documents, Mansion Park still 
needed to ensure that its advice  was suitable.
The investigator noted  the point made by Mansion Park about the viability  of the BSPS and 
the potential for it to enter the PPF. But he didnt think this, of itself, would justify  the transfer.
Ref: DRN874680811Although Mansion Park considered the critical  yield to match the scheme benefits  to be low 
and achievable, the investigators  view was that the transfer presented a high risk that the 
eventual pension benefits would  fall short of what could be expected from the BSPS.  
Mr B was recorded  as having  a low/cautious  approach to risk and even with the chosen fund 
described as being  slightly above this risk level  the potential for growth  matching  and or 
above the critical yield and what was being  given up was low.
Many of Mr Bs objectives were seemingly  met, or even bettered,  by the OPS  rather than the 
PPP. Although  there may have been penalties  to retire early in the scheme, Mr B would have 
had less of a fund available within the PPP due to the reduced  time for growth  pushing the 
critical yield higher  still. Mr B could  also have taken tax free cash within  the scheme.
There was a seeming  contradiction between the year on year investment growth figure  of 5% 
needed to provide the quoted drawdown amount and the 6.2% critical yield for the benefits  to 
match those from the BSPS.
There was in any case  negligible difference between the quoted income drawdown figure and 
that which  would have been available from the BSPS. And the pension fund was predicted to 
be depleted by age 84 if Mr B took the quoted yearly figure.
Apart from his membership of the defined contribution  with his then employer, this was Mr Bs 
only pension provision. He also had no savings  (other  than the investment in shares), so if he 
suffered even a temporary reduction in fund value  at retirement, his standard of living would  
have been impacted.
Mr Bs retirement income at age 65 was expected  to broadly match  his current  income, with 
the all the associated guarantees  attached  even if the scheme had entered  the PPF. It 
would also have increased in retirement.
The death  benefits  available after the transfer were potentially more  beneficial, as under the 
OPS a 50% spouses  pension would be paid. Whereas under the personal  pension the fund 
value could be paid in full to the estate. Once in retirement, the lump sum available  to his 
spouse would also have reduced  over time.
But given Mr Bs circumstances, and that he had no adverse health condition or reduced  life 
expectancy, the investigator didnt in any case think this would  be a compelling reason  to 
transfer.
Taking everything into account, the investigator thought that the complaint should  be upheld. He 
recommended that Mansion Park assess whether compensation was due on the basis that Mr B 
would, with suitable advice,  have not transferred his funds and opted to join the BSPS II when that 
alternative became  available. The investigator noted that the BSPS II retained many of the same 
benefits as the BSPS, and so concluded that would have been Mr Bs preference, rather than entering 
the PPF.
Mansion Park responded to the investigators view as follows:
It was evident from other complaints received that Mr B had colluded with two other 
colleagues in his evidence  which undermined its authenticity  and reliability. 
The chronology demonstrated that no undue pressure had been put on Mr B  if it had been, 
he wouldnt have  benefitted from the marked increase  in the CETV three months after the 
adviser first met him.
Due to the significant increase in the CETV, it was hard to imagine any circumstances  in 
which the transfer  wouldnt  have been in Mr Bs best interests.
Mr B was due to repay his mortgage by the age of 58. The combination of Mrs Bs employees  
pension and both of their state  pensions  meant that, to pay the monthly  outgoings, Mr B 
wouldnt ever have  needed to draw on the BSPS pension.
If hed moved into the BSPS  II or the PPF, Mr B would have faced  significant early 
redemption penalties for retiring early.
Ref: DRN874680812If he retired at 60, that still left only seven years in which to bridge the gap until his state 
pension began. The time left to contribute to further pension provision was ample for this.
The turmoil around the employer and the pension  scheme  hasnt been taken  into account. 
Members of the scheme were very nervous and Mr B (and his colleagues) chased Mansion 
Park a number of times to get the transfer to progress quickly
As Mr B wouldnt  likely need to draw on his pension, the ability to pass  it on to his wife and 
children upon death as a lump sum, rather than with a 50% reduction,  meant  there was no 
justification for not transferring.
One of the colleagues  who had submitted an identical complaint had given  good feedback  
10 out of 10 - about the adviser  and the process. Although this wasnt Mr Bs own feedback,  
it was nevertheless relevant as it seemed unlikely that such  a rating would  be given if they felt 
pressurised or unhappy with the service received
The investigator wasnt  persuaded  by Mansion Parks  points. He didnt think  the similarity between  Mr 
Bs complaint  and those of his colleagues was a relevant consideration here  theyd all been advised  
to transfer out of the same scheme, by the same adviser, at approximately the same time. The 
investigator also said that each  case would be looked at on its own merits, and that it wasnt unusual 
for a consumer to have  been happy with the service provided at the point of sale.  It might  be some 
time later that they have concerns about the service received.
As to Mansion Parks assertions about  the increase in the CETV  and Mr Bs lack of reliance on the 
BSPS pension, the investigator didnt  consider this recognised Mr Bs reasons  for discussing his 
options in the first place. Mr B transferred his pension  to achieve his financial objectives  and the 
advice given wasnt suitable for that  or his circumstances and attitude towards  his finances.  This 
shouldnt be negated  simply because Mr B might not have  been reliant  upon that income to fund his 
retirement, the investigator said.
He also noted that Mansion  Park had recommended a transfer on the basis of the first  and 
significantly lower  transfer value, which had a high critical yield to match  the ceding scheme  
benefits. The investigator acknowledged that there would have been reduced pension payable  from 
the BSPS if Mr B retired early, but given the critical  yield required  to match the scheme  benefits, he 
didnt think this was achievable with Mr Bs stated attitude  to risk.
Similarly, the investigator was mindful  of the potential for enhanced lump sum death benefits in the 
event of the transfer. But he reiterated is point that these benefits would be greatly reduced over the 
time that the income was being drawn.
The investigator said that hed made no findings on Mr Bs arguments that hed been put under  undue 
pressure. He also accepted that the three month deadlines were imposed by the trustees  of the BSPS 
rather than Mansion Park.
He also understood the situation relating to concerns about the BSPS at the time and the challenges 
this posed for advisers  as well as consumers. But he didnt think  these issues were sufficient reason 
alone to recommend a transfer away from the scheme, especially given  the availability  of comparable  
benefits in the PPF.
But given that agreement hadnt been reached on the outcome of the complaint, the investigator 
confirmed that it would be referred to an ombudsman for review.
Mansion Park thought that the investigator  response raised new concerns, in that it felt the responses 
given seemed  to be justifications for the earlier  findings rather than addressing the points raised.
In particular, Mansion Park felt that the issue  of collusion had been sidestepped.  Its view was that 
the consumers simply wouldnt have  given  good reviews of the service  provided if theyd felt 
pressurised, and that this undermined the credibility of other  evidence submitted  which had in any 
case been raised  in a throw everything at the wall and see what sticks approach.
Furthermore, Mansion Park said, if a client wouldnt be reliant upon the scheme benefits  in retirement, 
then common sense  should  prevail as their family  would be financially better off in the long term 
through transferring.  It added  that it was struggling  to find any justification that a transfer wouldnt 
Ref: DRN874680813have been in any clients best interests. And in such circumstances, a critical yield would become  
almost irrelevant  unless it was very high.
Mansion Park noted the investigators  comment about the PPP fund value being greatly reduced over 
time, but it said that with a fund value  of over £500,000 and monthly  outgoings  of just over £1,000, 
this would  be sustainable over a long period of time, even  if there were no other income sources. 
Investment returns would  need to be below what  had historically been achieved  for the fund not to 
grow in value,  rather than reduce over time.
The problems facing the BSPS werent grounds by themselves to transfer,  Mansion Park agreed, but 
it sought  acknowledgement  that this was a genuine issue and a significant factor in many members  
wanting to transfer their benefits. And for the same of potential for fund growth  and lump sum benefits 
for Mr Bs family, it didnt  agree that moving to the PPF would have been more  appropriate for him.
As confirmed  by the investigator, the complaint has been  referred  to me for review.
My provisional findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements 
Within the FCAs  handbook, COBS 2.1.1R required a regulated business  to act honestly, fairly  and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
The FCAs  suitability  rules and guidance that applied at the time Mansion Park advised Mr B were  set 
out in COBS 9. The purpose of the rules and guidance is to ensure that regulated businesses, like 
Mansion Park, take reasonable steps to provide advice that is suitable for their clients needs and to 
ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a level of risk beyond their investment objective  and risk 
profile.
In order  to ensure this was the case, and in line with the requirements COBS 9.2.2R, Mansion Park 
needed to gather the necessary information for it to be confident  that its advice met Mr Bs objectives  
and that it was suitable. Broadly speaking, this section sets out the requirement  for a regulated 
advisory business  to undertake a fact find process. 
There were  also specific requirements and guidance relating to transfers from defined benefit 
schemes  these were  contained in COBS 19.1. 
COBS 19.1.2  required the following:
A firm must:
(1)compare the benefits  likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under  a defined  benefits 
pension scheme or other pension  scheme with safeguarded benefits with the benefits afforded by 
a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other pension scheme with flexible 
benefits, before it advises a retail client  to transfer out of a defined  benefits pension scheme or 
other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits;
2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able to     make  
an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy  of the comparison, drawing  the clients attention to the factors that do 
and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no later than when the key 
features document  is provided; and
(4) take reasonable  steps  to ensure that the client  understands  the firms comparison  and its 
advice.
Ref: DRN874680814Under the heading Suitability , COBS 19.1.6 set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined  benefits  occupational 
pension scheme  or other scheme with safeguarded benefits  whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, 
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should 
only then consider a transfer,  conversion  or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out  is in the clients  best interests.
COBS 19.1.7  also said:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer,  pension  conversion or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients attitude  to risk including,  where  relevant, in relation to the rate of investment 
growth that would have  to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up.
And COBS 19.1.8 set out that:
When a firm prepares a suitability  report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal recommendation;     
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Mansion Parks rationale for transferring
As a starting point, I think its important to point out a fundamental flaw in the response to this 
complaint provided by Mansion Parks representative. It said the following  (my emphasis):
We fully appreciate that there is significant industry attention of the Issue  of transferring away from 
Defined Benefit ("DB") pension  schemes and that this area has been subject to repeated review and 
guidance by the regulator. However,  none of this should mean that a complaint involving  a transfer 
away from a DB Scheme  should be viewed with suspicion by FOS, nor that there should be any 
preconception that advice  to transfer  away will likely be unsuitable.  
COBS 19.1.6  referred  to above set out the precise  opposite of this statement. If this was an accurate 
representation of Mansion Parks starting assumption, then it was a poor start to the process. 
Mansion Park needed to assume that the transfer would likely not be in Mr Bs best interests  and by 
extension unsuitable - unless  it could demonstrate otherwise. So what I need to decide is whether it 
has done so.
Mr B met with Mansion Park to discuss his options.  My understanding  is that hed made  no decision 
on what he should do with his deferred scheme benefits.  And was seeking advice as to the options 
available. Mr B wasnt categorised as an insistent client, and so Mansion Park could be confident that 
he would be acting upon its advice.
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, Mansion Park undertook its fact finding for Mr B and then set out its 
assessment of his circumstances and objectives over the course of several progressively updated 
suitability reports, the last of which was issued on 17 July 2017, and which reflected the change  in the 
CETV.
But I have concerns  relating to aspects of that assessment and the way in which Mr Bs options were 
then explored and set out. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN874680815To begin with, Mr Bs stated  objectives reads to me rather  like a shopping  list for a transfer into a 
PPP with a future  flexi drawdown arrangement.  So, for example, even  if Im to accept that Mr B 
wanted to take personal control of his deferred BSPS benefits, rather than simply looking at his 
options, I think its unlikely Mr B set the requirement  of having the option of full Flexible Access Draw 
Down at age 55. This would  have  been  the result of the transfer  - not a likely driver  of someone who 
simply wished to explore their options.
The scope for early retirement was also a stated objective, which I accept seems plausible as 
something to be considered in a review of Mr Bs options. But I have concerns relating to the way 
these options were then represented. The language  used around the options for this within the BSPS 
was misleading  referred to throughout the suitability  report  as invoking penalties. The reality is 
that, just as with a PPP (smaller pot, longer time period with a lower annuity  rate), the scheme  
trustees would need to adjust the income Mr B would receive by retiring early. But this type of balance 
was absent from the explanation given to Mr B. The PPP was described as simply allowing for early 
retirement, without the penalties which  would  be applied by the scheme.
The suitability report also said that there was publicity  that the BSPS could become a Zombie 
Scheme. The justification  for this description  was that British Steel would have no liability for it and 
that within  such  a scheme, RPI revaluation might move to CPI. Mansion Park also questioned 
whether the scheme  would  be able to recover its deficit or enter the PPF in the future. But my 
understanding is that additional funding would  need to be input for a scheme to be able to exist 
without a sponsoring firm. As it turned out, Tata Steel agreed to be the sponsoring  firm, which meant 
an altogether improved position was likely, with the resulting BSPS II able to benefit  from profitability  
within that company. There was also no justification for its conclusion on the important latter  point 
relating to the PPF, which would of course negate any potential for it to become a Zombie Scheme. 
And if the scheme entered PPF, many important guarantees would remain.
Furthermore, the PPF had already made the following announcement on 16 May 2017:
We can confirm that the key commercial terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement  (RAA)  
have been agreed in respect  of the British Steel Pension Scheme and anticipate discussions 
concluding in the near future. This would  meet our published principles, including  that an insolvency 
event of the schemes sponsoring employer,  Tata Steel UK, would otherwise be inevitable.  Any RAA 
is subject  to a 28 day period  following an agreement leading to Pensions Regulator approval and PPF 
non-objection.
Following the RAA, it is anticipated that if risk-related qualifying conditions relating  to funding  and size 
can be satisfied, a new pension scheme sponsored  by TSUK  will be set up. Members would then be 
given the opportunity to move to this new scheme prior to the existing scheme  being  assessed for 
entry to the PPF. Members  of the scheme can be reassured that we are there to protect them 
throughout this process and they will be able to receive at least  PPF levels  of compensation,  should 
they remain  in the scheme and BSPS enter the PPF assessment period.
So there were inherent guarantees here - known  at the time of the advice  with levels  of 
compensation at least equivalent to the PPF. But this wasnt explained  fairly in the suitability  report.
Ive also noted perhaps more subtle, but nevertheless  important,  devices used by Mansion Park in 
seeming to set out the options available  to Mr B, but placing a bias on the benefits  of transferring. For 
example, having set out the key features of BSPS,  which I accept was a comprehensive  breakdown  
of those benefits, Mansion  Park then said There are, however, advantages  to transferring   this 
being its own emphasis.
And featuring prominently  at the top of this list was Flexible access draw down options from age 55 
 an exact match to the stated objective  referred to above.
The suitability report then referred  to the critical yield as being low and achievable. Id agree  that 
6.2% pa might have been achievable (although I address this prospect below), but in accordance with 
Ref: DRN874680816COBS 19.1.7,  consideration must also be given to the level of investment risk which  would need  to be 
taken to achieve  this, year on year, for the next twenty or so years.  
Mr B was recorded  as being a cautious risk investor, which might reasonably  indicate  a preference 
for the type of pension arrangement  which  has guarantees attached. Whats  also notable  about  this 
particular categorisation is that, although Mansion Park explored whether Mr B was prepared to take 
a higher risk for the sake of higher rewards, Mr B maintained his view of his attitude to risk. This to my 
mind was a flag which should have been picked up by Mansion Park. In my experience its not 
particularly uncommon  for consumers to have  expressed an initially cautious risk attitude,  to then 
have been recorded as increasing  this when  the risk/reward concept  was explained to them by an 
adviser. The reward potential  can often prompt people to reconsider.  But Mr B was unmoved  by the 
discussion around  this and maintained his preference for a cautious approach with his pension funds.
Thats not to say that I think  Mr Bs attitude  to risk was straightforward - despite his declared  cautious 
risk approach, he nevertheless held £5,000 in shares, with no apparent  savings. But I am satisfied, 
given that he declined several opportunities to rethink his risk rating, that he wanted to take a cautious 
approach with his pension planning in particular.  
So to just match the scheme benefits, my view is that to achieve the critical  yield of 6.2% pa Mr B 
would have needed to take an investment  risk which  was beyond  that which he was prepared to 
accept. In support of this position,  Mansion  Park should  have been aware of the industry growth  
projection rates  used at the time  the lower, mid and upper rates were 2%, 5% and 8% respectively 
(and Royal Londons own growth projections were  more conservative, being -0.5%, 2.4% and 5.4%). 
For someone with a cautious outlook, I would  expect reasonable projected growth to be around the 
lower figure, and certainly below the mid-rate   so significantly below the 6.2% critical  yield required  
just to match  the scheme benefits.
That is, of course, if the portfolio was appropriately matched  to that risk rating. The actual fund chosen 
for Mr B was the Royal London Governed Portfolio 2  a single managed  fund despite Mansion Park 
advising against the cheaper stakeholder option because of the lack of fund choice. That fund had 
48% investment in global equities. Mansion  Park conceded itself that this was higher  than would 
normally be appropriate for a cautious investor, but it said it had discussed this with Mr B and he was 
happy with this to achieve higher returns. 
But this was in direct contradiction  to his maintained position that he wanted to take a cautious 
approach with his pension funds. An attitude which was once again  tested when  Mansion Park 
suggested even higher  risk funds  and which  Mr B once  again declined. Furthermore, Mr B had 
expressed concern  at the prospect of a 10% reduction in his pension if the BSPS entered  the PPF. 
And this should, in my view,  have prompted  Mansion Park to question  whether the critical  yield was 
compatible with the type of risks Mr B was prepared  to take. My view is that it wasnt.
Mansion Park has made much of Mr Bs capacity to take risks with his pension  funds. In response to 
the investigators findings, it said that Mr B wouldnt be reliant on his pension  funds and could afford to 
not really draw on them at all to cover his likely household  outgoings. As such, it said,  the critical yield 
was largely irrelevant. This is a striking comment  and perhaps indicative of the mindset  behind this 
transfer advice  in essence,  Mr B could afford to risk his pension fund, so the transfer,  with its 
associated benefits (which Ill address  later),  was worth the risk. 
But as a reminder,  this was an individual whod expressed caution when referring to his pension 
funds. He was someone who was concerned with losing  10% of the fund, let alone the potential to 
lose a lot more.  Mr B didnt view his pension benefits accrued over 26 years of service as being 
something which would be nice to have, but not essential. If Mansion Park considered, or now 
considers, that the baseline requirement for Mr B was to be able to fund his monthly household 
outgoings, then it fundamentally misunderstood his objectives  and attitude  to risk  thereby failing  in 
its duty to know its client as set out in COBS 9. 
Ref: DRN874680817Mr B was likely  to receive a revalued annual pension at age 65 of £33,664 from the BSPS,  and would  
not have been prepared to sacrifice nearly two thirds of this to simply  be able to pay the bills. What 
was needed to cover  the household expenses wasnt the main driver here. 
And this is unsurprising - the benefits held in deferment with the BSPS were the main  part of Mr Bs 
pension planning,  amounting to 26 years membership of a defined  benefit scheme. Hed recently  
joined a pension scheme with his new employer,  but this was a defined  contribution  scheme  and so 
didnt have the guarantees attached  to the BSPS benefits, even if it entered  the PPF. 
He did have twenty years  left to state  retirement age, in which to accrue additional  pension benefits. 
But the evidence simply doesnt support the position that Mr B was willing  to jeopardise those 
deferred benefits within the BSPS  with the associated level of risk required  for potential gains. In fact, 
given his declared  cautious  stance and concerns about a 10% reduction, its quite  the opposite.
I also have concerns about  the comparison made between  the projected benefits from the PPP and 
those from the BSPS, or the PPF. Mansion Park provided  Mr B with the illustration provided  by Royal 
London. At the mid growth rate assumed by Royal  London, Mr Bs pension without taking tax free 
cash was predicted  to be £25,200 pa. It compared this with the pension  of £20,450 pa which it said 
the BSPS had projected as at the date of leaving. 
But this was a clear  misrepresentation  it wasnt comparing like with like. The BSPS figure  lacked the 
revaluation assumed in the transfer value analysis,  which  is essentially the equivalent to the 
investment growth included in the Royal London projection. That pension including revaluation  was 
predicted to be £33,664 pa. or if the scheme entered the PPF, a predicted pension  of £27,305 pa. 
Both were  therefore comfortably in excess of the mid band growth  amount of £25,200 projected to 
be available from the PPP. This was a failure to adhere to COBS  19.1.2 (2), which  required Mansion  
Park to provide information for Mr B to be able to make an informed decision. And had Mansion Park 
portrayed this fairly and honestly, I think Mr B may well have viewed things differently. 
Mansion Park has also said that the death benefits offered by the transfer would be more beneficial to 
Mr B and his family. After the transfer,  a lump sum would  be payable to his beneficiaries,  rather  than 
in the form of dependants  pensions from the scheme. But there are two issues here  the first is that, 
as rightly noted by the investigator, Mr B had no particular health issues which would  mean  that death 
benefits for a 45 year old were of concern at that point.  The second is that the benefits  provided by 
the BSPS were valuable.  A lump sum may have its appeal  and I recognise  that in some situations 
the ability  to pass a lump  sum to a beneficiary  or to the estate could be particularly advantageous 
when compared to an income stream through the spouses  pension.  But a pension  for Mr Bs wife for 
life, a dependants pension for his children  until they left full time education, and a lump  sum return of 
his own contributions  would also have been of great benefit. And Mr B had expressed no desire  for 
death benefits  to take the form of a lump sum.
And so I cannot agree with Mansion Parks comment that the combination of the lump sum death  
benefit and the lack of need that Mr B would have for the pension would mean  that there was no 
justification in not transferring. I take the opposite view, for all the reasons  Ive set out.
Allegations of collusion
Mansion Park has criticised the way in which Mr B and several of his colleagues  have submitted their 
complaints. The similarities demonstrated in their submissions is, according to Mansion Park, 
evidence of collusion.  But in my view its attributing disproportionate importance to this. People talk 
to each other, especially in situations like this, where many people in the same employment  were  
advised to do the same thing  as we know is the case with British Steel.  And Mansion Park was 
aware that they were  going through  the same  process at the same time. 
So its unsurprising, and of no particular  concern, that their submissions may look similar or the same 
 the circumstances  were  similar, and the underlying complaints are likely  to be similar,  in that they 
feel they received  unsuitable  advice to transfer out of a defined benefit scheme. Mansion Park calls 
Ref: DRN874680818this collusion, and that this throws  into doubt the evidence submitted.  But I take a different view. In 
our investigation, weve relied upon the documented facts as evidence.  Notably, the investigator 
hasnt factored into his consideration issues such as Mr B (and his colleagues)  saying he felt 
pressurized into transferring. He didnt  need to, and neither have I. Even if that wasnt the case and 
Mr B was, at the time, quite happy with the service received, it doesnt undermine the other factual 
and documented evidence available, which  in my view significantly compromises the case for the 
transfer. 
And to be clear, we look at the individual circumstances of each complainant and whether  the advice 
given was right for them.  The submissions may be similar, for the reasons given above, but they will 
have unique  personal circumstances  and objectives, and thats what we consider. 
And having taken those  facts into consideration, my view is that Mansion Park should  not have 
recommended the transfer.
What should Mansion Park have done  and would  it have made a difference to Mr Bs decision?
Mansion Park said it wanted this service to acknowledge that there were serious  concerns  relating to 
the BSPS at the time - and Im quite prepared to do so. This was a period of great uncertainty  for 
individuals such as Mr B, combined with short timeframes to make  potentially life changing  decisions. 
But this only serves  to emphasise the need for a balanced assessment of the options available  and 
ultimately, suitable advice.
Ive also thought  very carefully about whether the service provided to Mr B was a balanced appraisal 
of the options available to him  after all, this had been the purpose of the consultation.  Mr B (and his 
colleagues) may have been concerned  by developments relating to British  Steel and the BSPS,  but 
they were seeking an impartial review of their options. 
Many of the recorded objectives were in any case achievable within the BSPS. Tax free cash  was 
available from his scheme  benefits, and growth over the medium to long term would  be achieved  by 
way of regular revaluations. And he was able to add to his retirement  provision through  his 
membership of his current employers scheme. Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS, 
albeit in a different format from those available  from a PPP. 
Given what I consider  to have been a lack of balance within the report, I have  concerns about the 
probability of there  being any outcome  here other than the recommendation to transfer. This is heavily 
reinforced by Mansion Parks willingness  to recommend,  before the CETV was enhanced,  the transfer 
at a critical yield of 11.4%, which it itself described  as high and unachievable. It justified the 
recommendation to transfer at that point by saying  that it was suitable  in view of Mr Bs stated 
objectives and the concerns  about  the BSPS. 
This leads me to believe  that there might not have been any critical yield which Mansion Park would 
have thought  undermined the case to transfer. And Im unconvinced by what  Mansion Park clearly 
considers as the overriding justification. The stated objectives were either  self-fulfilling opportunities 
created by the transfer itself or ones which  could  in any case have been met by the BSPS - and there 
needed to be a much more  balanced  assessment  of the schemes attributes  and prospects for Mr B to 
be able to make an informed decision.
I think  that, had it done so  and provided  a more  balanced and open assessment of his options - Mr 
B would have followed that advice and left his deferred benefits where they were.
And I dont think a lack of awareness of the detail of the BSPS II and its features in any case changes  
the outcome here.  Even if there was the prospect  of Mr Bs funds entering the PPF,  my view is that, 
taking account of his circumstances, including his attitude to risk, his objectives and the guarantees 
which the BSPS offered, Mansion Park should have advised against the transfer.
Summary
Ref: DRN874680819For the reasons  given,  my view is that a fair and reasonable assessment of this case leads to a clear 
conclusion  that the recommendation to transfer wasnt suitable for Mr B. The key contributing 
factors here are: Mr Bs cautious attitude to risk and its incompatibility with the type of investment risk 
required to match the scheme benefits  a failing  under COBS 19.1.7. And the unbalanced 
presentation of Mr Bs options and the benefits available  from the BSPS  a failure to adhere to 
COBS 19.1.2  (2) and 19.1.8.
As Ive said above, I also have very real concerns about the inevitability of the outcome of the 
process, which it appears would have been the same irrespective of crucial aspects such as an 
unachievably high critical yield  an aspect which  to my surprise has been described  by Mansion Park 
as being largely irrelevant given the other issues involved and the described  benefits of the transfer. 
But these other issues, or alleged problems,  with the BSPS were in my view misrepresented, and 
many of the benefits available  from the PPP were in any case  available, albeit in a different format, 
from the ceding scheme. 
Had Mansion  Park taken proper account of Mr Bs attitude to risk with regard to his pension funds  and 
matched that with the likely corresponding investment returns,  it would  have realised that it was 
unlikely that the benefits available  from the BSPS, or even the PPF, could be bettered through  the 
transfer. As required by COBS 2.1.1R  and COBS 19.1.6,
it would, or should, then have drawn  the conclusion  that transferring wasnt in Mr Bs best interests.  
What does Mansion Park need to do?
My aim to is put Mr B, as closely as possible, into the position  hed be but for Mansion Parks  
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of Mr Bs deferred benefits isnt possible.  Therefore, Mansion Park 
Limited should undertake  a redress calculation  in line with the pension review methodology  as 
amended by the Financial  Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
As with the investigator, and for the reasons given, my view is that had Mr B not transferred his 
pension funds to the PPP, he would  have opted to join the BSPS II. One of Mr Bs main concerns was 
the 10% reduction in the starting  pension entitlement within the PPF.  But the BSPS II wouldnt cut the 
starting entitlement  for deferred members.  Also, if Mr Bs marital  status didnt change, his wifes 
pension would be set at 50% of his pension  at the date of death, and this would  be calculated as if no 
lump sum was taken  at retirement. For service after 5 April 1988 and up to 5 April 1997,  the scheme 
would include a Guaranteed Minimum  Pension (GMP)  element  increase in line with CPI, capped at 
3% pa. Mr Bs service  accrued between 5 April 1997  and 5 April 2005 would also be increased  in line 
with CPI, capped at 5% pa, and then 2.5% pa for his service thereafter.
And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS  II which should be used for comparison purposes.
This calculation should be carried out using  the most recent financial assumptions published by the 
FCA at the date of the actual calculation.  Mansion Park Limited may wish to contact the Department 
for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs contribution history to the State Earnings Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details  should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take 
into account  the impact  of leaving the occupational  scheme  on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
The compensation  in respect  of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. 
The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. The compensation  
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment into the pension  isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid.
Ref: DRN874680820For example, if Mr B would  have  been yet to take a tax-free cash  sum from the occupational scheme, 
25% of the future  loss would be tax-free  and 75% would  have been taxed  according  to his likely  
income tax rate in retirement  presumed  to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the future loss adequately reflects this.
Where we consider that total fair compensation requires  payment of an amount that might exceed 
£150,000, this service may recommend that the business pays the balance.
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I also recommend 
that Mansion Park Limited pays Mr B the balance.
This recommendation isnt part of my provisional  determination or award.  It wouldnt bind Mansion 
Park Limited. Its unlikely that Mr B can accept an offer made  by Mansion Park Limited  and go to court  
to ask for the balance of the compensation  owing to him. And so Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent advice.
The compensation  resulting  from the loss assessment must where  possible be paid to Mr B within 90 
days of the date Mansion Park receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision,  if it remains 
the same.  Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, 
that it takes Mansion Park to pay Mr B this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any period of time where  
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP may be added to the 
90 day period in which  interest  wont apply.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Im currently minded to direct Mansion Park Ltd 
to undertake the above calculation and, if it demonstrates a loss, compensate Mr B accordingly. 
Ref: DRN8746808