K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A have  complained that Royal and Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc (RSA) has 
declined an escape  of water claim. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on 16 October  2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  Both sides to the dispute have seen my 
provisional decision on this case. I wont repeat all the details here, but will give a brief 
summary.
Mr and Mrs A made a claim on the caravan insurance following an escape  of water. RSA 
rejected the claim  as Mr and Mrs A had failed to tell it they were hiring out the caravan. So 
they werent covered for the damage. 
In my provisional decision I was minded not to uphold the complaint. Since I issued my 
provisional decision Mr and Mrs A confirmed they have nothing  further  to add. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs A nor RSA have  disagreed  with my provisional decision I find no 
reason to depart from my original findings.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
copy of my provisional findings
complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that Royal  and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has declined an 
escape of water claim. 
background 
Mr and Mrs A took out a policy through a broker  in September 2014.  In March 2018 they made a 
claim to RSA for escape of water. RSA reviewed the claim and decided  to reject it. RSA says when 
Ref: DRN82398202they took out the policy  they were asked by the broker if they were going to hire out the caravan. Mr 
and Mrs A said no and that it would  only be used by family. When assessing the claim RSA has said 
Mr and Mrs A told it the caravan was being hired  out. RSA said   Mr and Mrs A were  not covered for 
damage whilst  hiring out the caravan. Mr and Mrs A were  not happy with this response and say the 
caravan was being used by their family. So they brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought RSA had not treated Mr and Mrs A fairly. He felt that as RSA would have 
covered her for hiring at no extra cost it shouldnt  have declined the claim. The investigator also said 
RSA shouldnt have offered a lower  level of cover when a higher  level of cover was available for the 
same price. RSA disagreed.  It says Mr and Mrs A were asked a clear question when  taking out the 
policy in 2014. And they have agreed to renew their policy every year since the sale without asking for 
the hire cover. RSA says the hire cover is not offered as standard because  its not free to all 
customers and cover is not offered in some caravan  parks.  So the complaint  has now been passed 
for me to decide.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so Im not minded  to uphold it. And Ill explain why 
below. 
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here),  I have  to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence  and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
I first need to decide if the caravan was being rented out and if it was has RSA declined the claim 
fairly and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy. 
RSA says Mr and Mrs A told it that customers were  using the caravan at the time. Mr and Mrs A say 
the caravan was only being  used by their family.  However, RSA has provided a call where Mr and Mrs 
A say the caravan was being  rented  out to a customer. Having listened  to the call they were asked if 
anyone was staying at the caravan at the time of the damage and they answered  yes. When asked 
by RSA who was staying  at the caravan they answered  a customer. I dont believe Mr and Mrs A 
would have told RSA a customer was using  their caravan when in fact they were actually  referring to 
their family or friends. So Im satisfied  on balance  - the caravan was most likely  being  rented out by 
Mr and Mrs A. 
Having reviewed  the terms and conditions  of the policy  there is a clear exclusion that says any 
damage which occurs to the caravan whilst it is being rented out isnt covered unless hiring  has been 
selected on the policy. During the call provided by RSA Mr and Mrs A confirmed that a customer  was 
staying at the caravan when the damage happened. Therefore, I believe RSA has declined this claim  
fairly. So I dont agree with the investigator  that it would be fair to ask RSA to meet this claim given  
the circumstances of this complaint. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision  is not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint against  
Royal and Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc. 
Ref: DRN8239820