K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. Ill refer to the business  as M &S in my decision.  
background
Mrs J bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a charge card online. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Js complaint because:
I think M & S made  Mrs J aware  that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that 
she chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Js application form. It 
seems that at least some  of Mrs Js details were printed on the form before it was 
sent to her.  
There was a section  for PPI and a tick has been  placed next to the option for PPI. 
Mrs Js name has also been handwritten in this section to confirm  who the insured 
person is. I cant say if Mrs J or M & S wrote  her name. Mrs J has signed  the overall 
from  so I think this indicates what she wanted.
Ive considered Mrs Js comments,  including what shes said about  possibly  ticking  
the option for PPI in error.  But the PPI premiums would have appeared on her 
monthly charge  card statements and I think Mrs J would quite reasonably have  
questioned the PPI with M & S  much sooner than she did, if she was unsure about  
what shed taken out. Its also likely that Mrs J would have been sent documentation 
about the PPI after shed  applied for it.
M & S didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did still have to give Mrs J good  enough information so that she could 
decide if she wanted PPI and if it was right for herself.
 Its possible the information M & S gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs J doesnt appear  to have  been  affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Js comments,  including what  shes  said about  not needing PPI 
because of her existing means  of making her repayments. But this policy could have paid 
out for longer than Mrs J received sick pay and although Mrs J has said that she could have  
Ref: DRN80996982relied on her husband, he may have wanted to help but not been in a position to help when 
needed as circumstances can change. Having this policy would also have reduced  the need  
for Mrs J to rely on her husbands help. 
Ive also considered what Mrs J has told us about  her savings.  But having this policy  would 
have allowed Mrs J to keep her savings intact for future use. So these points dont change 
my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8099698