K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that Tesco Underwriting  Limited didnt pay a fair market value for her 
car and shes unhappy  with the service it provided. Mrs S made a claim under her car 
insurance policy. 
background
At the end of August  2018 Mrs Ss car was damaged  while parked by another driver. The 
other driver admitted they caused the incident. Tesco  has settled the claim as a non fault  
claim.
Mrs S complained to Tesco in October  2018.  She was very unhappy with the total loss 
settlement it decided for her car  as Tesco said it wasnt  economical  to repair it. 
Tesco said it had paid the market value for Mrs Ss policy  in line with her policy. 
Mrs S remained unhappy  and asked us to look at her complaint. She said she had to chase 
Tesco for updates.  Twice she said she was told her car was repairable and it would take two 
weeks. Mrs S said she was without a courtesy  car for over a month  as Tesco  settled the 
claim on 8 October 2018. 
Mrs S wanted Tesco to increase the settlement it paid her. 
Our investigator thought Tesco had reached  a fair market  value for Mrs Ss car in line with 
the motor trade guide valuations and her policy. But she thought Tesco  was responsible  for 
Mrs Ss loss of use of a car. So she recommended Tesco pay Mrs S £340  compensation. 
This sum was for loss of use for 34 days at £10 a day.
Mrs S accepted the investigators recommendation. 
Tesco didnt  agree it should pay £340.  It accepted it was responsible  for some  delay  but it 
said Mrs S only complained to Tesco about  the market value settlement. It didnt agree it 
was responsible for providing a courtesy  car until the approved repairer  confirmed Mrs Ss 
car was repairable. This took some  time because there were concerns about structural 
damage. 
In any event, Tesco said it offered Mrs S use of a hire car  but she didnt want to pay an 
optional excess which was her choice  and so Mrs S declined  the offer.  
Mrs S  unhappy that Tesco  didnt accept the investigators recommendation  has 
reiterated the distress  and inconvenience  she says Tesco caused her by the way it handled 
her claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease, Ive set out Mrs Ss complaint under  headings below.
Ref: DRN83061592Tescos total loss settlement is too low
Mrs Ss policy with Tesco says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market  value 
of Mrs Ss car at the time of loss. It defines  market value as the cost of replacing the car 
with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and condition,  immediately before the 
loss or damage happened.
We dont decide  a market value. But we can look at whether an insurer  reached its valuation  
in a reasonable way  and in line with the policy. We have a long standing approach to 
valuation complaints. We find the most  reliable way to decide a market  value  for a car is to 
look at the main motor  trade guides.  They provide average valuations  based on likely  selling 
prices for the same make,  model, age, mileage and condition of a vehicle. We tend to find 
advertisements less reliable as they can vary widely  and tend to be a starting point to 
negotiate a price down. 
Tesco paid a final valuation  for Mrs Ss car of £9,563. We checked the main motor  trade  
guides and found the sum Tesco has paid is within the range of the trade  guides  for a car 
similar to Mrs Ss. So I dont think Tesco needs  to increase the settlement sum its paid 
Mrs S. 
Mrs S was without use of a car 
Mrs Ss policy with Tesco says that it will provide a courtesy car free of charge while her car 
is being repaired. It also says:
Once we have decided  that the car can be economically repaired by one of our 
approved repairers  and if it cannot  be driven,  we will provide the courtesy  car on the 
next working day for as long as the repairs take.
Your car insurance policy will automatically  be extended to cover the courtesy car 
for the period it is provided to you while your car is being repaired.  All terms, 
conditions and exclusions of this policy, including the excesses shown on your policy 
Schedule, will apply  to the courtesy car. If you have to make a claim for the loss of or 
damage to the courtesy car this will show on your claims history and your no claim 
discount or other features  of your policy may be revised at your next renewal.
Mrs S says that one of the reasons why she wasnt happy to pay the excess the hire rental 
company asked of her was affordability. But I think the wording of Mrs Ss policy is clear. If 
Mrs S wants  to use a hire car while her car is being  repaired, the same  conditions apply in 
terms of paying  any excess  due under the courtesy car - in the same way as it does for 
Mrs Ss claim. 
Another reason  Mrs S gave as to why she didnt accept the use of a hire car initially was 
because she didnt  anticipate how long it would take Tesco to settle her claim. Mrs S said 
that on a couple of occasions, the approved  repairer  led her to believe her car was 
repairable and would take two weeks to repair. For example, she said she received a text to 
say her car was being looked at by a structural repairer. So Mrs S thought shed be without  
use of a car for only a short period of time. Mrs S said she made many  calls to Tesco during 
September 2018 to chase for updates.
As explained on our website, we consider whether  compensation for "loss  of use" is justified 
in every motor insurance case we look at. Further information can be found here: 
Ref: DRN83061593https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical_notes/loss-of-use-mv.html
I think that Tesco caused undue delay in deciding whether to repair  Mrs Ss car. And so 
although I think its policy is clear  about  the conditions  under which  it will provide a courtesy 
car, I dont think it was fair for Mrs S to have to wait as a long as she did to find out her car 
wasnt economical to repair. 
Having to deal with any claim will cause  a degree  of inconvenience. Fortunately its 
something that doesnt happen every day. But when it does, inevitably it will take up some  of 
our own time to deal with. It isnt possible to decide  a set number of days in which  a 
business should settle a claim. It can take time to arrange for an approved  repairer to collect 
a car and inspect  it before  deciding if its economical to repair it or declare it a total loss. 
But I think Tesco should compensate Mrs S for taking longer than reasonable to decide that 
her car wasnt repairable. In this case, Tesco took 40 days to settle  the claim Mrs S made on 
29 August 2018.  It paid her a total loss settlement sum on 8 October  2018.  
So I agree with the investigators recommendations for Tesco to pay Mrs S the equivalent of 
34 days loss of use. I think on balance, its a fair way to resolve her complaint 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Tesco Underwriting Limited  to pay Mrs S £340  for 34 days  loss of use at £10 a day. 
Tesco Underwriting Limited  must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  
we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year.
If Tesco Underwriting Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from any interest  it pays, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs S a tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN83061594Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8306159