K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple Ill refer to FICL 
as the seller in my decision.
Miss A says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  agreement  in 1997.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss A aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent  before adding 
the policy to her agreement. Miss A has told us she was led to believe the policy  was 
needed for her to obtain the credit. I cant know for certain what was said at the time Miss A 
applied for the credit  and PPI but FICL  has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork. 
Miss As application form had a separate section for PPI where the option  to take the policy 
was selected before the form was signed. I think its likely this form was completed  during a 
conversation Miss A had with the store representative when the decision to take the PPI was 
made. Miss A was also agreeing to an important financial commitment so I would expected  
her to have  checked  over the form before signing in agreement with the options selected on 
it. With this in mind I think its more likely FICL  made it clear that the PPI was optional  and 
that Miss A chose to have  it. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss A got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay, savings and family help. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to Miss As sick pay, and for longer  than she would have received full pay. It 
would also have allowed her to keep her savings  in place to be used towards any other 
essential expenses  she may have had. And while Miss As family  would  have wanted  to 
help, their ability to would have been dependent on their circumstances,  which could have 
changed. So I dont  think this offer of help could be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss As circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful 
Ref: DRN83143882for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8314388