K820x#14complaint
Mr J says that the National Deposit Friendly Society  Limited (NDFS) wrongly rejected the 
initial copy of his grant of probate,  insisting  unnecessarily that he sent a second one. This 
resulted in cost,  delay  and inconvenience for which he should be compensated.
background
NDFS admitted that it subsequently accepted the first form but said the delay had only been  
a day and it had still completed the whole process within three  working days  (inside  its target 
for such work). It offered  Mr J £20 in vouchers as an apology.
Mr J did not accept this offer, saying that hed needed to send another grant  of probate  even 
though NDFS  accepted  the first one had been fine. Given this was an official document he 
had had to send it recorded  delivery, so £20 was an insult. By the time it reached NDFS it 
had already accepted the first copy.
An adjudicator at this service  felt that given  the whole process was completed promptly such 
that NDFSs offer had not been unreasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NDFS recognised its error in not accepting the initial copy  of the grant of probate  but it then 
processed things very quickly, well within its timescale for dealing  with these things. Given 
how long these processes often take (from my experience of dealing with complaints about  
this general issue) it looks as if NDFS made it a priority to deal with this expeditiously.
In this context I do not think  one can fairly  say that Mr J was disadvantaged financially by 
this mistake. That said, I accept Mr J was inconvenienced and out of pocket  by having to 
send a second copy.
I spoke to NDFS to check whether its offer had taken account  of the cost and inconvenience 
involved in sending this second copy, and it said it hadnt been fully aware  of this at the time 
and would be happy to pay an additional £20 to cover this issue.
I explained to Mr J that I felt this additional payment was reasonable and he said he would 
accept it.
my final decision
Given the recent increased offer, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86857612
Ref: DRN8685761