K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company  Limited (Shop  Direct) closed her 
account shortly after opening it, without giving  her notice or reasons for its decision.
Ms R wants  Shop Direct  to explain why it closed her account and ensure no adverse 
information is recorded on her credit  file, as a result  of the closure.
background
Ms R opened her Shop Direct credit account on 6 September 2018. On 8 September 2018, 
Ms R attempted to make  her first purchase  on the account. But Shop Direct  declined the 
purchase, then emailed  Ms R to say it had carried out further checks and had decided to 
withdraw the credit account immediately.
Ms R complained. She said Shop Direct  had to give her 60 days notice of the account 
closure. And that it had to explain  why it had closed the account.  She also wanted Shop 
Direct to ensure  there  was no adverse  information  on her credit  file, as a result of her credit 
account being opened and closed so quickly.
Shop Direct responded to Ms Rs complaint saying it had been  resolved. But Ms R didnt 
agree, so she asked  our service to have a look at it. Our investigator said Shop Direct had 
complied with its terms and conditions when it closed Ms Rs account. And that it didnt have 
to give Ms R an explanation of its reasons  for doing  so.
Ms R remained unhappy,  so she asked for an ombudsman  to consider the matter afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Ms R is upset. Her credit account was blocked then closed without 
notice. And she hasnt been told why. But for me to uphold her complaint I have to think 
Shop Direct has done something  wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has.
Shop Directs terms of business  entitle it to close an account, so long as it follows  certain 
steps. The terms and conditions of the account  which both Shop Direct and Ms R had to 
comply with  say that it could suspend and close the account immediately, under certain 
circumstances.
Having looked  at the evidence Shop  Direct has provided me, I dont think  it failed to properly  
follow its own procedures when it blocked,  reviewed and closed Ms Rs account. And Im 
satisfied that, in the circumstances  of Ms Rs complaint, it isnt obliged,  by regulations or its 
terms of business, to explain the reasons for its decision. So Im not going  to ask it to 
compensate her for any distress and inconvenience this may have caused. Or explain its 
reasons for closing  her account.
Ms R has also said shes  concerned about  the impact this will have on her credit file. From 
what I can see, any damage caused to Ms Rs credit file by the swift closure  of her account 
will be minimal. But Ive thought about  whether or not Shop Direct  should have to update 
Ms Rs credit  file. And Im not persuaded  that it should.
Ref: DRN86654502Financial businesses are obliged to report accurate credit information  about their customers. 
And because Ive said Shop Direct  was entitled to close Ms Rs account, it follows that I cant  
reasonably ask it to amend Ms Rs credit file to say otherwise.
I do find it a little unusual  that Shop Direct initially told Ms R her complaint had been  
resolved, when that was not the case.  But she brought her complaint to our service the day 
after she heard  back from Shop Direct.  So I dont think she suffered any loss as a result of 
Shop Directs letter, or any significant  distress and inconvenience that would warrant  an 
award of compensation. So Im not going  to ask Shop Direct to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.  
Alex Brooke-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8665450