K821x#15complaint
Mr T is unhappy  Ageas Insurance  Limited  turned down a claim he made on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy. 
All references to Ageas  include its claims handlers. 
background
Some years  ago Mr T purchased his current home.  Subsequently he bought an additional 
portion of land adjacent  to the main  site. Access rights over this land had previously been 
granted for two neighbours. Relations between Mr T and one of the neighbours became 
difficult which led to him withdrawing  those  access  rights the following year.  
Mr T says he contacted Ageas in March 2017 as he believed the neighbour was now 
trespassing on his land and he wanted  to take out an injunction in relation to this. He says on 
the basis of the discussions  he had at that time he decided to deal with the situation  himself. 
He subsequently contacted Ageas again  in January 2018 as his neighbour had sought to 
establish a right of way over his land and he continued to feel the neighbour was trespassing  
on this. 
Ageas turned down the claim. It said the policy didnt  provide cover for defending claims so it 
wouldnt be able to help Mr T in relation to the action his neighbour was taking against him. 
And in relation to a potential trespass claim it said the policy didnt cover any building or 
land other  than your principal home . It said in order for land to be considered  part of the 
principal home it needed to be included on the same  title document.  As that wasnt the case 
with the additional land Mr T purchased  it didnt  believe his claim was covered.  
Our investigator thought that was fair but Mr T didnt agree. He said there was no explicit  
definition of principal home in the policy terms and the seller  of the policy  had provided him 
with a different  definition.  He drew attention to an email from Ageas which  said the policy  
wording changed  in 2017 which he believed was after he made his claim. He argued the 
definition provided  by the seller applied prior to that date. 
Mr T also argued the seller of the policy should be held responsible  for what  happened here 
because he said the policy  was provided  by them, they were responsible for the wording and 
had a legal  obligation to honour the contract.  And Mr T raised concerns about the handling 
of his complaint  by the investigator.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. I explained why I thought that 
Ageas were  responsible for the complaint Mr T had made about the claim on his policy. And 
in relation to that I said: 
Turning to Mr Ts claim against his legal  expenses insurance policy  Ive looked first at what  
the policy says.  It provides cover (subject  to the other terms and conditions)  to pursue a civil 
claim for insured incidents. That includes:  
Civil actions relating to material property which is owned by you or for which you are 
responsible following:
Ref: DRN88204092Any event which causes or could cause physical  damage to such material property
Any nuisance or trespass provided that you are responsible for the first £250 of every 
claim
But the policy says it doesnt cover Any building or land other  than your principal  home.
Looking at the claim Mr T made he did raise concerns about the prescriptive easement his 
neighbour was seeking  against him. And as the policy  only covers the pursuit of claims I 
think Ageas  was right to advise that costs  associated with this werent something  it would be 
able to assist  with. 
But the policy could  provide cover  to pursue a trespass claim. Ageas says this is excluded 
because the plot of land in question  didnt form part of Mr Ts principal home. In its view 
principal home would include an area of adjacent land on the same title document.  And that 
wasnt the case with the land which is the subject of the claim Mr T made.
Mr T argues that definition  has only been in place  since 2017 and that a definition provided  
by the seller of the policy was used prior to that. However, I dont think  thats  right. The policy  
terms that apply when he made his claim dont contain any definition of what is meant by 
principal home. And it seems  to me that the wording used by Ageas and the seller of the 
policy simply represent differing interpretations  of what this means  they dont form part of 
the policy terms.
In the absence of a definition in the policy terms the question I need  to consider is what  a fair 
interpretation of this term would be. In general  it seems to me that land and property 
included on the title document to a home  which someone occupies as their main residence 
could reasonably be said to form part of their principal home. And in this case  the land which 
is the subject  of the claim Mr T has made  isnt included on the title document  to his property. 
But I dont think that can be the only way of establishing whether  land forms part of 
someones principal home.  
Im mindful of the fact that a substantial portion of land in England and Wales remains 
unregistered. So its quite  possible  that land and property could form someones principal 
home but not be shown on any title documents. I dont think the intention of this term is to 
exclude cover where thats the case.  I think its to ensure  the policy doesnt provide cover 
where a policyholder is making a claim in respect of property or land which isnt the place 
where they mainly  live, for example a buy to let property, a second  home  or other land that is 
clearly separate  from the main property.
I dont think thats  the case  with the land thats given rise to Mr Ts claim. Hes told us that 
the land falls within the curtilage of his property and effectively forms an extension  to his 
existing garden.  He says his intention in buying  it was, in part, to use it for recreational 
activities and following the purchase  (and prior to the issues with his neighbour)  it was used 
domestically by him and his family  almost  every day. 
Ref: DRN88204093I think the plans  Mr T provided and photographs which formed part of a planning application 
in 2015 support that. I note the purchased land does lead directly  off his existing garden  and 
the photographs supplied with his planning application indicate he has direct access to it. I 
also note that in approving the application  (which was for tree maintenance work) the local 
authority identified the location as being Mr Ts property. Given that, and taking  into account 
that principal home, isnt further defined in the policy terms, I dont think its fair of Ageas to 
say this land doesnt form part of Mr Ts principal home simply because its not on the same  
title document.  
So Ageas cant  rely on that to turn down the claim.  And it will need to reconsider the claim 
against the remaining policy terms. If that shows this is a claim for which  it should have 
provided cover it will need to backdate cover to the date it should have been confirmed. Any 
reasonable costs  relating to the claim paid by Mr T after that date will need to be refunded to 
him. Ageas will also need to pay interest  at 8% simple on those amounts from the date he 
paid them until the date of settlement. And Ageas  will need to provide ongoing cover subject 
to the remaining terms of the policy  continuing  to be met.  
I also think that Mr T will have been caused  unnecessary distress and inconvenience  as a 
result of his claim being incorrectly turned down. In order to recognise the impact of this on 
him I think it would be fair for Ageas to pay him £200. 
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr T provided some further  background to what had happened  in respect of the issues  with 
his neighbour.  He continued to feel the definition of principal home  had changed. He noted  
the seller of the policy was authorised and regulated by the FCA. And he queried  whether 
some sort of one off settlement could  be achieved to avoid him having to continue to deal 
with Ageas in future (though he accepted that might  not be possible).  
Ageas also responded. It didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said, in summary:
The land in this case is registered so while it appreciated the wider point about the 
application of a policy exclusion which focussed on this this it didnt believe it applied in 
this case; 
It had made inquiries of the Land Registry  which said it did not consider  land to form part 
of the principal home when it was not contained  on the same title deeds   and if Mr T 
had wanted to do that he could have asked the Land Registry to do so; 
It thought the local authority referring  to the land as Mr Ts property was likely to relate to 
his ownership of the land and shouldnt be relied on to show  it formed part of his principal 
home; 
Although principal home wasnt defined in the policy it was widely defined online as the 
primary place,  land or property a person  inhabits.  In this case  Mr Ts principal home was 
located on separate and adjacent land and it didnt believe the land in dispute  formed 
part of his principal  home. The definition of home  is the place where  one lives 
permanently and he didnt  live on this land. The fact that it adjoined his home didnt 
mean it was part of it. 
Ref: DRN88204094my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that, as Mr T says, the seller of the policy is authorised and regulated  by the 
FCA. But thats as a seller  of insurance and not as an insurer. Im satisfied this complaint is 
correctly set up against Ageas. And I dont  think the definition of principal home in the policy  
has changed  the issue is that it isnt defined in there at all. Of course there are different 
interpretations of what that might  mean  and that goes to the heart of Mr Ts complaint. 
In this case I appreciate  the land in question  in this case is registered.  And I note what the 
Land Registry appears to have told Ageas about the definition it would apply. But given the 
substantial amount of land in England and Wales that is unregistered I continue  to feel that 
whether land appears on the same title deeds  cant be the sole criteria for judging whether  it 
forms part of someones principal home. 
And as theres  no definition of principal home in the policy the issue is what a fair 
interpretation of this term would be. I agree some of the points Ageas has highlighted are 
relevant to this. I also accept that just because  land is adjacent to someones  property  
doesnt in itself mean it forms  part of their principal home.
However, I explained in my provisional decision that Id taken into account  what Mr T had 
said about his usage of the land. He said it fell within the curtilage of his property and 
effectively formed an extension to his existing garden. He says his intention in buying  it was, 
in part, to use it for recreational activities and following the purchase (and prior to the issues 
with his neighbour) it was used domestically  by him and his family  almost every day. 
And while I accept the local authoritys description  of the land isnt conclusive the plans and 
photographs provided with his application show the purchased land leads directly off his 
existing garden  and he has direct access to it. I think that supports  what Mr T has said about  
his usage of it. Taking all of that into account  I continue to feel it isnt fair of Ageas to say the 
land doesnt form part of Mr Ts principal home and turn down  his claim on that basis.  
Ageas also said it wanted  a response to its comments before any final decision was reached  
on the case. But I dont think a further response is necessary. I explained my thinking in my 
provisional decision and Ageas had the opportunity to provide its response to that which Ive 
considered in this decision. 
I appreciate Mr T would prefer to achieve a one off settlement of his claim but Ageas will still 
need to consider this against  the remaining policy terms.  And its not possible to say at this 
stage what the outcome  of that process will be. However, if Mr T is unhappy  with a future 
decision Ageas  reaches  that could form part of a fresh complaint. 
Ref: DRN88204095my final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ageas Insurance Limited  will need to put things right 
by considering the claim against the remaining  policy terms. If that shows  this is a claim for 
which it should have  provided cover  it will need  to backdate cover  to the date it should have 
been confirmed.  
Any reasonable costs relating to the claim paid by Mr T after that date which  would have 
been covered  by the policy will need to be refunded to him. Ageas will also need  to pay 
interest at 8% simple  on those amounts from the date he paid them until the date of 
settlement. And Ageas will need to provide  ongoing cover subject to the remaining terms of 
the policy continuing to be met.  
Ageas will also need to pay Mr T £200 to reflect the unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience 
hes been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8820409