K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) acted  unfairly and 
unreasonably in the timing of its withdrawal of a mortgage offer.  He wants compensation.
background
Mr O had a mortgage  product  with RBS and wanted to transfer (port) the interest  rate to a 
new property and borrow more money. He said that he was given a decision in principle to 
do so, but he said that it was withdrawn eight days before the completion date in mid-August 
2018. Mr O accepted that lenders had lending policies,  but was unhappy  about  the timing  of 
the withdrawal as hed been dealing with RBS for months. He said that the late notification 
meant that he had to move quickly to another lender and choose his new mortgage on the 
basis of which lender could complete quickly, not the cheapest product. He said that the 
withdrawal also caused him stress.
Mr O complained to RBS. It said it didnt give Mr O a formal mortgage offer, and he hadnt  
been given a decision in principle as it was clear early on that the application was likely  to be 
declined. Mr O did make  a full application  in early  August and this was declined promptly.  
Mr O complained to us, and said that he hadnt been told that the full application was likely to 
be unsuccessful, though  he accepted that he was told about the decline on the same  day 
that he made the full application in early August. RBS pointed out that consumers shouldnt 
commit to buying  a property until they had a mortgage offer,  but Mr O didnt  apply until about 
twelve days before completion.  
The adjudicators view was that throughout the summer of 2018 Mr O did discuss  making  a 
mortgage application with RBS, but a decision in principle wasnt given until the same day as 
Mr O made  the application and it was declined. While the adjudicator thought RBS couldve 
progressed a decision in principle earlier, which wouldve triggered the full credit search and 
the later decline sooner,  he thought  £150  compensation for the trouble  and upset caused  by 
the poor service  was fair and reasonable.
Mr O disagreed and felt he should  receive more compensation.  He said that the immense  
stress of finding out that RBS wouldnt give him a mortgage eight days  before  completion 
deserved more compensation and he hadnt been  able to get a competitive mortgage in time 
due to the delay.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
I dont share the adjudicators view of this complaint. RBS is correct when it says that 
consumers shouldnt enter into a legally binding  contract to buy a property and set a firm 
completion date without having  a mortgage offer in hand. Mr O never  had a mortgage offer 
from RBS as he accepts. It was Mr Os choice to agree  a completion date, and therefore I 
cant hold RBS responsible for the consequences  of this as it never  guaranteed  to give him 
the mortgage offer he sought.  It also didnt  give him a decision in principle until the same  day 
it then fully reviewed his application.  And Mr O accepts that RBS was able to apply its 
lending policies and decline.
Ref: DRN86759272What about what  happened before the full application was made? Again, I cant say that 
RBS is at fault or acted unfairly or unreasonably.  Mr O indeed  had been  discussing his 
mortgage needs for some months  before  August 2018, but what  he wanted to do changed 
over time and all the documents  needed  to support an application werent provided until late 
July. The meeting to make a full application was arranged for early  August, and that isnt an 
unfair or unreasonable time frame. And RBS arranged a number of meetings where the 
position was discussed beforehand and progressed matters, but I dont think that it caused 
unnecessary delay from the evidence available to me. 
I also dont think getting a decision in principle earlier  wouldve helped  as it wasnt  until the 
full application  was made and then reviewed that it became clear the application would  be 
declined. Mr O chose to agree a completion date without the benefit  of a mortgage  offer.  
Indications that an application may succeed or even a decision in principle does not replace 
the need to have a mortgage offer. Mr O also left making a full application very late, and 
under normal industry standards it is unlikely  that the mortgage wouldve completed  in time if 
the application had been successful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision,  neither party had any substantive comment  to make.  
In light of this, and following my review  of the evidence and my provisional decision, I will 
confirm my provisional decision as my final view.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 
8 June 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8675927