K822xcomplaint
Mr D is unhappy about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) has dealt with his claim.
All references to Ageas  include its claim handler. 
background 
Mr D purchased a cosmetic repair policy alongside his new vehicle. On 29 October 2018 he 
raised a claim for damage to his rear bumper. 
On 1 November  2018 Mr D received confirmation that the repair had been authorised and 
passed over to the repair shop. He then received an appointment for 12 December 2018 and 
was asked to confirm or re-arrange. Mr D felt the appointment was too far away  so he rang 
the repairer and was given a revised  appointment for 3 December 2018. 
On 19 November 2018 Mr D received  notification  that his repair had been moved to 21
January 2019  due to an I.T error.  Mr D was unhappy with this delay so he complained.  
Ageas responded by explaining  there  was a new software system in place to improve 
customer experience. But it was aware  there  had been issues with some  bookings so it 
acknowledged the error and agreed  that service had fallen below the level they expect. It 
also confirmed it was working with the repairer  to ensure issues are resolved quickly  so any 
future claims  run more  smoothly. 
Unhappy with this, and the lack of assistance to expediate his repair, Mr D referred the 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked at everything  and upheld the complaint. He felt Ageas should pay Mr 
D £50 compensation  for the delay  he experienced. 
Mr D remained  unhappy so the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly.  So I need to decide whether 
thats what happened in the circumstances of this case. 
I can see how frustrating it was for Mr D to try and re-schedule his appointment so it fell 
within a timeframe he felt reasonable. And its unfortunate he was told there wasnt  any 
available slots to have his repair looked at sooner by the shop. But its not unusual for an 
insurer to advise a claimant to speak directly to the service provider in relation to 
appointment bookings  this is because third party involvement can cause unnecessary 
delays. Under the how to make a claim section of the policy  it states the administrator will 
instruct the repairer to contact the insured to arrange for the damage to be repaired. So I 
cant say Ageas has done something wrong  in advising its best for Mr D and the repairer to 
communicate directly to establish if there  was a closer booking. 
Ref: DRN89326522There isnt a repair timescale set out in the policy document, so Mr D has referred to his 
legal rights as a consumer. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 states services are to be 
performed within  a reasonable timeframe, and Mr D believes the timescale for his repair was 
unreasonable. I have considered Mr Ds point and can appreciate why a three month wait is 
longer than he wouldve expected. 
However, I must also consider what impact the delay caused to Mr D. And although I can 
understand the frustration at the time taken for a fairly  straight forward  repair, Mr D wasnt 
without a working vehicle during this time. And I havent seen evidence  of any additional  loss 
caused by the delay.  
Mr D has said he is unhappy with the delay because the damage was exposed to the 
elements. He was concerned that the damage may have fallen under the 6.14 exclusion of 
the policy which excludes cover for damage caused by hail, rust, pitting or paintwork 
discolouration. I can understand why he wouldve been worried  about this exclusion, but I 
can see the repair was covered by the policy and the claim wasnt declined.   
In addition, I cant see that the delay in getting the vehicle booked  into the shop had any 
detrimental effect to the actual repair. There is no evidence of an issue with the repair or 
that, despite the delay in securing an appointment; the actual work itself took longer  than it 
should have. 
Mr D has also raised concerns about  the six repairs a year guarantee set out in his policy 
document. He says Ageas could  never  fulfil that obligation based on the three month wait he 
experienced with this repair.  Ive considered this carefully but I havent seen enough to 
conclude future repairs  would incur the same delay. Ageas has agreed  the service  it 
provided fell below the standards  it expects. It provided an explanation for the re-booking  
and confirmed it was working with the repairer  to quickly fix the new IT system so this 
doesnt happen again. As such, Im not persuaded future repairs would take as long to be 
booked in. 
Ive also considered Mr Ds concerns about  how Ageas handled his complaint about  the 
delay, especially his request for it to be escalated. But having reviewed everything,  I cant 
see any significant failings.  Ageas  responded  to the complaint within the timescales  set out 
in DISP 1.6.2. And issued  a valid final response which  gave referral  rights to our service if Mr 
D was unhappy  with the outcome  which  is the correct escalation  process.  So Im unable to 
say the business has done anything wrong  here. 
Mr D had said he paid money to the business  to provide a service  to him and that included 
arranging an appointment to undertake the work  agreed. He feels the business has failed to 
do this and therefore breached the obligations of the contract between them. However, I 
disagree. Ageas has fulfilled their contractual obligations because  it did book an appointment 
for the repair work to be carried out and the repairs have now completed.  
However, I do agree the time taken for Mr Ds repair was longer than it shouldve been. So, 
having considered the detriment this delay caused, Im satisfied that £50 compensation is 
fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Ds complaint. 
Ref: DRN89326523Ageas Insurance Limited must now pay Mr D £50 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Georgina Gill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8932652