K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained that the total loss settlement sum Sabre Insurance Company Limited 
paid for her car is too low. Mrs S made a claim under her car insurance policy when her car 
was stolen. Mr K is representing Mrs S in her complaint.
background
Mrs S made a claim to her insurer, Sabre following the theft of her car in September  2018. 
Sabre initially gave  a total loss settlement sum of £4,000 for her car, but increased  it to 
£6,000 on receipt  of further evidence from Mr K. 
Mr K asked us to look at Mrs Ss complaint because he still felt the valuation  Sabre had paid 
was too low. Mr K believed a fairer valuation for Mrs Ss car was in the region of between 
£8,000 and £12,000.
Our adjudicator looked at the information  both parties provided and he checked the classic 
car guide as Mrs Ss car was first registered  in the 1960s. Although  Mr K had provided 
photos and some documents to show the cars history, these were  limited.  But from the 
guides the adjudicator thought a fair price  was the starting dealer price given of £8,000  
based on a similar car in good condition.  He thought Sabre should pay interest at 8% simple  
interest a year on the difference.
Mr K accepted the adjudicators findings although he commented  that it was lower than hed 
hoped for. 
Sabre didnt agree. It said theres no evidence to show the condition of the car since it was 
purchased by Mrs S in 2015. The photos provided  indicate they are from 2015. A lot can 
change in three years. Due to the limited service history provided, it believes the valuation it 
paid of £6,000 is reasonable. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer has reached  its decision 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mrs Ss policy with Sabre says the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of the car at the time of loss. 
Our usual  approach is to rely on the main motor  trade guides to see if what  the insurer has 
paid is reasonable. But in this case they dont apply  because  of the age of Mrs Ss car. 
Sabre looked  at adverts for similar  cars online.  It also considered photos Mr K provided to 
show the condition  of Mrs Ss car. It agreed to increase the valuation  from £4,000  to £6,000.  
But it said the value  of a classic car depends  hugely on its condition  and the service  history.  
So Sabre said it was prepared  to reconsider its valuation  if Mr K provided  additional  
documentation to support  the condition and maintenance history of the car. 
Ref: DRN84620692Ive reviewed the documents provided  and I think they are limited. And I think some of the 
photos  showing  a celebration bow on the car  suggest they were taken when Mrs S 
purchased the car in 2015. 
Because Mrs Ss car was stolen, its not possible for an engineer to decide a fair pre 
accident value  under a physical inspection. Theres not enough to suggest  Mrs Ss car was 
in poor condition  but also not enough  to suggest  it was in excellent condition  either.  
The classic car guides gave a starting valuation for a similar car to Mrs Ss in good condition 
of £8,000. So on balance, I think the valuation Sabre reached of £6,000  is too low. I 
therefore agree with the adjudicators recommendations in this case  and think Sabre should 
increase the total loss settlement to £8,000. I think it should  pay interest on the difference  as 
set out below. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Sabre Insurance  Company Limited to do the following:
Increase the total loss settlement it paid Mrs S to £8,000 (minus the excess  
already deducted). 
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date it 
originally settled  the claim to the date it pays the difference 
Sabre must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs S 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Sabre considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8462069