K822xcomplaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the service provided  under  a boiler  insurance  policy  with British 
Gas Insurance  Limited.
background 
Mr H took out the policy with British Gas in April 2018. As part of the cover British  Gas 
carries out a first visit and inspection of the boiler. It did this on 17 April 2018 and during that 
appointment apparently also replaced  the pressure relief valve  and a glass  seal.  The boiler  
flue was also apparently inspected and recorded  as being okay.
However, two days after the service  Mr H noticed a leak from the boiler.  British  Gas came 
back out and while there the engineer apparently  clamped  the flue which  Mr H says caused 
it to collapse.  Mr H was told the flue would need  to be replaced  but this would not be 
covered under the policy, as it excludes flues more than two metres  long (which  this one 
was). British  Gas capped  off the gas supply until it was done and left a safety  warning notice 
not to use the boiler. Mr H says he was without heating and hot water for five weeks until he 
eventually had the flue repaired by a friend, who added some screws to fix it at no cost to    
Mr H. Mr Hs friend (a qualified gas engineer) said the bracket  holding  two sections of the 
flue together had broken. 
Mr H is very unhappy with this. He says British Gas should not have touched  the flue at all, 
as it was not necessary in order to fix the original fault. Mr H says the engineer  that clamped 
the flue had said it may well have been what caused it to collapse.  British Gas had not 
worked on the flue but had to remove it in order to service  the boiler. He wants £380 
compensation, which is apparently what British Gas told Mr H it would cost to repair/replace  
the flue. Mr H also says British Gas called him a liar about what  the engineer  told him and he 
wants an apology. And it took British  Gas eight weeks to decide  it wouldnt fix the flue, 
leaving him without  heating or hot water.    
British Gas said it had not done anything wrong,  as the policy only covers  flues  up to one 
metre long. If it had accidentally damaged the flue then it would repair it free of charge but it 
denies having done so and says it has got opinions from two other engineers to confirm  it 
had not done anything  wrong. British Gas did, however, offer £50 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
One of our investigators  looked into the case. She recommended that it be upheld,  as she 
considered it more likely than not that British Gas had caused the damage to the flue. She 
also thought that British  Gas should not have made Mr H wait for a decision about his 
complaint before assessing if it was responsible for the repairs to the flue. The investigator  
recommended that British  Gas pay Mr H £200  compensation  for the trouble this caused him 
and apologise  for suggesting he had caused  the damage. 
Mr H accepted the investigators assessment.  British  Gas did not accept it and so the matter  
has been passed to me. British Gas has made a number of points in response  to the 
investigators assessment, which Ive summarised below: 
The complaint  is about whether its engineer caused the damage to the flue and it 
correctly told Mr H that it would take up to eight weeks to consider that complaint 
about that alleged damage. It did not say it would  take eight weeks to assess  a 
claim. 
Ref: DRN86756502Its engineer did not cause the damage  to the flue and so it has no obligation  to 
repair it. 
The flue is over two metres long and so any damage to the flue is not covered by 
the policy.
It never said Mr H caused the damage to the flue, it only ever said that its 
engineer didnt cause it. The damage was most likely caused as a result of 
general wear and tear or component  failure.  In which  case  the length of the flue is 
material, as it will not be covered as an insured peril.  
It tried to contact Mr H about  his complaint on 23, 25 May and 1,4,8 and 16 June 
2018 about his complaint but was unable to get an answer. 
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres nothing in writing  from Mr Hs engineer about what  work he did, or his opinion  about 
why that was necessary. I have no reason to doubt  what Mr H says his friend  did (i.e. that he 
replaced a bracket  which secured the flue) but there  is no independent evidence that this 
was necessary solely as a result of something  British Gas did wrong. Equally, there  is no 
evidence that the damage  to the brackets was inevitable due to age /wear and tear. The 
records from British Gas do not have any detail about how or why the flue bracket was 
broken and the second opinions it referred to have to been provided. Ive not seen any 
evidence that British Gas suggested  Mr H had caused the damage,  or that he had lied about  
anything that happened. 
It is difficult, given the lack of corroborating evidence to reach a conclusion about the cause 
of the damage. However, overall, it seems to me more likely than not that the damage  was 
related to British  Gass  attendance  it had inspected the flue two days  earlier and said it 
was all okay, so it is it difficult to accept, that the flue/brackets were  so worn or old that it 
would naturally break two days later with no other intervening cause. 
The investigator criticised  British Gas for going  through its normal  complaints procedure.  I do 
not agree  that it did anything wrong in this regard. British Gas had already  told Mr H that it 
did not consider  it was responsible for the damage  to the flue and also that any damage 
however caused  was not covered under the policy. Mr Hs complaint is about that decision 
on its part. When considering a complaint an insurer might change the outcome and it was 
possible British Gas could  have decided to repair it after all, having considered the complaint 
but it didnt. While I have  determined that it was more  likely than not responsible, it was 
entitled to make this decision. I do not therefore agree that it needed to do anything else. It 
considered the complaint, which is the normal process. Mr Hs position was no different 
because of this: he knew British Gas was denying  responsibility for the damage and also 
that it would  not be covered by the policy. If he did not want to wait until it had completed its 
investigation  and the hope it would change its mind  he could  have had the flue repaired  
himself sooner, while it was being  carried out. He says he did so, at no cost to him, but after 
waiting five weeks without  a working boiler.  
Having taken all this into account, I consider the £200 recommended  by the investigator to 
be reasonable compensation for the trouble caused  to Mr H. I do not intend to require  British  
Ref: DRN86756503Gas to make any apology. Even if I did consider  that an apology  was appropriate, a forced 
apology would just be insincere and futile.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay Mr H the 
sum of £200  for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its handling of his claim.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8675650