K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained Lloyds  Bank plc only credited £5,550 to her account  when  £6,050 
was paid in.
background
Mrs W and her husband, Mr S, planned to deposit  some cash into Mrs Ws Lloyds account. 
They counted the money together and believed they had 120 £50 notes and five £10 notes. 
This totalled £6,050. Mr S was going  to the bank the following day to deposit the cash.
Mr S went  to a local Lloyds branch but found  he was unable  to pay this in over the counter. 
So he used one of the deposit machines  in the branch.  He had difficulty getting  the money to 
accept his notes  as money kept being rejected.  But after nearly 20 minutes,  hed deposited 
all the cash. Only £5,550  had been deposited.  Mr S had no more notes on him so was sure 
some had been swallowed by the machine and not given back to him. Lloyds said theyd 
check the machine.
Mrs W was told no money  had been  found within the machine and £5,550 was the right 
amount Mr S deposited.  She didnt  believe  this was the case and brought  her complaint to 
the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included days worth of a detailed audit of all 
the transactions at the machine Mr S used. These  showed all attempts Mr S had made  to 
deposit the cash, including those that had been aborted completely. There  was no record to 
show any cash had been retained within the machine. Overall  she felt Lloyds had done  
nothing wrong.
Mrs W was upset with this outcome.  She and her husband had struggled to understand what  
had happened  to the money and this had left them in financial difficulties. She wanted an 
ombudsman to consider  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached roughly the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than both parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead,  Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Its also true that I dont need  to repeat what our 
investigator wrote in her view of 5 May 2020.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
Ref: DRN88655722To help me reach my decision, Ive considered all the evidence Lloyds has shared with us. 
Ive also paid careful attention to Mrs Ws and Mr Ss testimony.  
Ive reviewed the evidence from Lloyds. Their  deposit machine clearly shows  successful 
deposits of £2,450, £350, £650, £1,100 and £1,000. Before the first successful deposit at 
10:27, Mr S had tried three times to insert notes  into the machine. These had been rejected 
three times as invalid and the notes  returned to him. This also happened again  between the 
successful deposits  of £2,450 and £350.  However what  is clear  and backed up by the 
evidence  the machine accepted a total of £5,550  to be credited to Mrs Ws account. There 
were no notes left in the machine: thats reflected in the examination by Lloyds staff and the 
machine data provided to us by Lloyds.
It is difficult for me to come to any other conclusion than £5,550 was credited  that day and 
there was no money left aside. I wont be asking Lloyd to do anything  further.
I should add that theres nothing in what Ive said which  means to raise  doubt in what Mrs W 
and Mr S have told us. To state  the obvious,  I cant be sure what exactly  happened to the 
£500 that went missing.  It is possible that it was left at home  by accident. Or that in the 
confusion with money being rejected by the machine, Mr S put some of it in his pocket rather  
than trying to deposit it. I dont know. But I am sure £5,550 was deposited in the machine 
and rightly credited  to Mrs Ws account.
Im sure my conclusion will be a disappointment to Mrs W. Im sorry about that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against  
Lloyds Bank  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8865572