K820x#14complaint
Mr C says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out a PPI policy with a flexi-loan in 2000.  He paid a monthly amount for the policy.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
HSBC has referred  us to the type of paperwork it says wouldve been completed 
when the flexi-loan and PPI was sold to Mr C. This paperwork is consistent with what  
we know of HSBCs sales practices  at the time the policy  was sold to Mr C, and I 
think its reflective of the paperwork  that wouldve most likely been  completed at the 
time. It shows  that Mr C wouldve had to sign separately to take out the PPI. 
Whilst the example  loan agreement does already include pre-printed information  on it 
about the PPI, I think this is most  likely because the PPI was discussed  before the 
form was printed. Ive thought carefully about  what Mr C has said about this, but I 
dont think theres enough  evidence here to say HSBC didnt give Mr C a choice.  
Although Mr C has said as part of his complaint that he was forced  to take PPI, Ive 
not seen evidence to support what hes said.
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr C, and it seems to have been right for him based  
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time. 
I think HSBC couldve  explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr C would still have bought it. 
Its possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But Mr C 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  not needing PPI 
because he could have  relied on his family. But although his family may have  wanted  to 
help, circumstances  can change and they may not have been in a position to help when 
needed. Having  this policy would also reduce Mr Cs need to rely on his family  to make his 
repayments.
Ref: DRN81412902Although Mr C has said that he had some  sick pay, a successful accident or sickness  claim 
on this policy  would  have  paid out for up to 12 months. So I still think that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable and that Mr C had a need for PPI. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also noted  what Mr C has said about  how HSBC have dealt with his complaint. Whilst 
its regrettable that there  have been delays, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that HSBC has to do anything to compensate Mr C for these delays.  
I would also like to thank  Mr C for his time and patience whilst  waiting on an answer  from our 
Service and I wish him all the best with his future. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8141290