K822xComplaint
Ms K complains  about the bill payment facility of Santander UK plcs online banking system,  
as some of the payments  she made with her current account  didnt  go through,  but she 
wasnt told this.
Background 
Ms K uses Santanders online banking to pay some of her bills. But a few of payments  to a 
utility company didnt  successfully  go through  and she only found out when she received a 
debt collection notice  from the company concerned. The same issue  happened with a 
separate payment she made as this was rejected, but was then put through  automatically 
the following  day. She didnt understand why this was different. She got a payment summary 
of her transactions but didnt  think this showed all the payments shed made.
Ms K wrote  to her local branch manager about the problems shed experienced and asked  
for an explanation. She was asked to meet with the manager, but wanted a response  in 
writing. She didnt feel the service she received was professional, and was left feeling 
harassed. 
Ms K was concerned about the impact missing  these  payments would  have on her credit  
report, and that the payment problems may happen again in the future. But she didnt feel 
Santander responded to her concerns and didnt think it given her a proper explanation 
about why these issues had occurred. She said it had closed down her complaint rather than 
address it.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but initially didnt think  the complaint should  
be upheld. He said Santander had closed down Ms Ks complaint as it had asked  for a 
response from her to try and address the problems shed had but hadnt received a reply. So 
he didnt think it had acted  wrongly  in closing  her complaint. He said Santanders online 
service doesnt automatically collect information  about bill payments and faster payments in 
the same  way as direct  debits, which may have been why some  payments hadnt appeared 
on her payment summary.  He said the online  log-on information could only go back for the 
last 15 months, so not all of the relevant details were still available for the instructions and 
payments Ms K attempted. The investigator  looked  at Ms Ks credit report and couldnt see 
any adverse entries  recorded, so he didnt think her credit  rating  had been affected  by the 
failed payments to the utility company.
Ms K didnt accept the investigators  findings. She said that no explanation  had been given 
about why the payments failed in comparison  to the one which  had automatically been  
resent. She was told that her complaint had been  closed down and that she would receive a 
response in writing, but this didnt happen.  Shed  asked why all of her payments didnt show  
on her payment summary,  and yet her complaint  about this had been  closed  down and 
ignored. She wasnt told it was Santanders policy to close complaints after a certain  period. 
Ms K asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
The adjudicator looked into the matter again,  and suggested that Santander  should  pay 
Ms K compensation for the service  shed received, given that she was told she would 
receive response letters from Santander  which she didnt get. He also asked Santander  to 
provide more of an explanation about why the bill payments to the utility  company didnt go 
through when  the payment to the other  bank did. 
Ref: DRN83976202Santander then said that there had been a system  issue which  affected  the three bill 
payments, but not the other transfer.  Because of the time this explanation took and to 
recognise the incorrect information she was given; the poor service she received and the 
distress she was caused through the failed payments, Santander  agreed  to offer Ms K a 
payment of £200.  
Ms K didnt accept that this amount sufficiently compensated her, and said she felt £400 was 
more appropriate.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can appreciate Ms Ks strength of feeling about this matter,  particularly as she was wanting 
to make sure she understood what went wrong with her payments and reassurance that this 
wouldnt happen again. I also can see that she was upset with the service  that she received 
from her local branch, which she felt was unprofessional.
Ive gone over all the information provided  about  the background that caused the problems 
she experienced, and Ive listened to the recordings of her conversations  with Santander 
about the bill payment  mandate,  and about her concerns with the service  shed received.
In June 2017 Santander closed Ms Ks current account by mistake. To put this right, it 
reinstated the account; sent her flowers and paid her £100. This in itself is not the subject  of 
the complaint  Im considering here,  but it had an impact on what later happened with the 
payments Ms K wanted to make afterwards. 
This is because one particular bill payment  the one Ms K then had the problem with - 
wasnt fully reinstated  at the time the account  closure was reversed. So this caused a 
system issue  meaning the three  bill payments she made using it after the reversal  failed.  
Ms K has referred to a comparison transfer  she made, which  failed at first but then went  
through automatically. She questioned why this was different to the three utility bill payments 
that failed. However,  that particular payment looks to have been set up differently as an 
immediate faster payment, rather than a future dated bill payment like the ones to the utility  
company. This was why it went through the following day automatically  as it wasnt affected  
by the system issue.
Santander has told us that there has since been a review of its systems and the issue  has 
now been resolved,  meaning Ms K shouldnt experience the same problem again. And I 
would hope that this is unlikely, given that it was the error of the account closure that led to 
the problem in the first place.
However, I do feel that it has taken an unnecessary amount of time for Ms K to receive this 
information and get the understanding she wanted about why her payments hadnt gone 
through.
And through  this time, Ms K has been  given incorrect, or at least incomplete, information 
about her account  payments and details.  I can see why that she was looking for a record or 
audit of her payment history, when shes likely  to have been concerned that other  payments 
or transactions may also have failed. 
Ref: DRN83976203As bill payments are initiated by the account  holder, one that doesnt go through  may not 
appear on an account history in the same way as an unpaid direct debit. This is because  a 
direct debit is an instruction given  by an account holder to a bank to allow  a beneficiary to 
withdraw money from that account.  And, if the direct  debit was returned  as unpaid, this 
would then show on the account history.
I can understand Ms Ks feelings  about the interaction she had when she visited  her local 
branch to try and get some resolution.  And Santanders response to these concerns when 
she raised them, lead me to understand that relevant feedback was provided as a result. 
Some of the questions Santander asked  Ms K seem to have been  to help it look into matters 
for her and properly investigate what had gone  wrong. This suggests  to me that at that 
stage, Santander  didnt have enough information  to have traced  the error back  to the 
reinstatement of Ms Ks bill payments after the account was wrongly closed. 
Santander closed  Ms Ks complaint when  it didnt receive a response from her to its request 
for more information. I dont think this in itself is unusual, as it may be that a customer  
chooses not to respond if they dont  want to take their complaint further. However, here Ms K 
was of the impression that the investigation  into her complaint would  still happen, when it 
wasnt set out that it was dependent on her reply. So this may have  been  a 
miscommunication or misunderstanding between  Santander and Ms K.
Having reviewed the credit report Ms K has provided, I agree with the adjudicator that I cant 
see an indication that this has been  adversely impacted  upon  because of the failed 
payments to the utility company. But I do think that being contacted by a debt collection 
agency when  she was unaware  the payments hadnt  been  made  will have caused her a 
great deal of worry and upset.
Taking everything into account,  including the poor level of service  Ms K received and the 
time it has taken for her to receive an explanation  of why the three bill payments she made  
failed, I agree that a payment of £200 is a fair reflection  of the upset and inconvenience  
shes been caused. I do appreciate that this is less that Ms K would like. However,  I feel this 
is fair in the particular  circumstances here,  after considering all the aspects of her concerns.
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK plc to pay Ms K £200  
for the upset and inconvenience she was caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8397620