K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain through their representative Mr D that Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax isnt providing assistance to them in their financial difficulties.
background
Mr and Mrs L have a mortgage with Halifax since 2008 which  they kept up to date until 
September 2018. Mr L has had a serious illness and cant  work at present. Mrs L has been  
making reduced payments and is looking to sell the family home. Mr D has been assisting 
them and contacted Halifax to discuss the issue and try and come  up with a solution. Mr D 
thought a face to face meeting would be good  but Halifax said that its specialist departments 
which dealt with arrears  could only be contacted by phone. Mr D says that when he 
contacted Halifax  he spent some hours being passed through a number of departments 
including the customer priority team and the vulnerable customer team but got no positive 
response. Mr D feels that in particular Mr and Mrs L could be put on a discounted fixed  rate 
which would insure  they didnt go further into arrears.  
Halifax responded to say that it was prepared to work along  with the familys plan to sell the 
property to clear the arrears, allowing a 90 day period from November 2018 to allow  them to 
sell the property and that they would be supportive of the family both during and after the 
sale of property period.  Our adjudicator didnt recommend  that this complaint should be 
upheld as he didnt  feel that Halifax had done anything  wrong.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  and 
asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is very unfortunate  situation where  a member of the family is ill and the rest of the family 
are trying to cope with both a difficult personal  circumstance and the financial problems 
associated with a loss of income.  As I understand  it Mr and Mrs L had concluded that the 
sale of the family home was the best long term solution  to their financial problems. Mr D, Mrs 
Ls father, was assisting to see if there could be some short  term relief.
Mr D wanted to have  a face to face meeting with Halifax. I can understand why he would find 
that helpful but I also understand that Halifax has developed a policy  of dealing  with 
customers through trained staff in specialist  teams. Obviously how Halifax operates  its 
business commercially  is a matter for itself. Our concern is that the customer  is treated fairly.
Ive looked at the history of this account since Mr and Mrs L fell into arrears. My view is that 
Halifax handled the matter sympathetically.  I see that Mr D refers  to a number  of solutions 
that Halifax say they offer to a customer in financial difficulties but werent offered to Mr and 
Mrs L in the present case, The difficulty seems to be here that the lack of any income  for Mr 
and Mrs L meant that many of the possible  solutions would likely put them  in a worse 
situation than they were  already in. 
Mr and Mrs L would understandably prefer to be on a discounted fixed  rate interest rate. But 
any fixed rate product  would involve an ERC which would  have  to be paid if Mr and Mrs L 
Ref: DRN86421082sell their house which appears to be their intention.  So, transferring Mr and Mrs L to a fixed  
rate product  would leave Mr and Mrs L in a worse situation than they are now.  But also given 
Mr and Mrs Ls lack of income it doesnt appear  that they could afford  to make the monthly 
payments even at a reduced rate of interest.
I note that I couldnt  see that Halifax was charging arrears  management  fees. It also offered 
to extend a hold on legal  proceedings  and for a period allowed a reduced payment  
arrangement. Its unfortunate that illness has placed  Mr and Mrs L in a very difficult  situation. 
But from the evidence  I have I dont believe that Halifax has done  anything wrong and so I 
cant fairly uphold  this complaint.   
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8642108