K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that after AXA PPP Healthcare Limited became aware  she was receiving 
treatment under the NHS, it didnt offer her private  treatment under her private  medical 
insurance policy.
background
In October  2011, Mrs T was admitted to an NHS hospital.  Her husband  (Mr T) called  AXA to 
advise it of this. AXA told Mr T that because  his wife was receiving treatment under the NHS, 
she was entitled  to NHS cash benefit.  
Mrs T complains that AXA didnt ask her husband if she wanted  to be treated privately.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Whilst she accepted AXA could 
have asked if Mrs T wanted private treatment, it was also the case  that shed already been 
admitted to an NHS hospital and didnt  ask to be transferred to a private facility.
Mrs T didnt  accept the adjudicators findings, so the matters been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mrs T was first admitted  to an NHS hospital on 20 October 2011, and was discharged on 
7 November 2011. 
I dont know if Mrs T was admitted to the NHS as an emergency,  or if the treatment  was 
planned. The policy doesnt cover emergency  treatment,  but if the treatment was planned 
then AXA wasnt made aware of it before  Mrs T was admitted to hospital. 
A few days  before  Mrs T was discharged, Mr T called AXA to advise that his wife was in 
hospital. AXA didnt  ask if Mrs T wanted to be transferred to a private facility,  and only 
discussed claiming NHS cash  benefits. 
Like the adjudicator,  I think  AXA could have  asked if Mrs T wanted to be transferred to a 
private facility (assuming she was well enough to be transferred). However,  its also the case  
that Mr T didnt request  this on behalf  of his wife. Since Mr T gave no indication that his wife 
wanted to be treated  privately, I cant reasonably say AXA should be held responsible  for 
Mrs T receiving the rest of her treatment in the NHS hospital. 
Mr T says the NHS hospital where  his wife had her treatment  has private rooms. He thinks  
AXA should  have arranged for his wife to be treated there. 
Ive checked AXAs directory  of hospitals  list and I see the NHS  hospital where Mrs T 
received treatment is only covered for MRI and CT scans. Its not a hospital where AXA will 
provide a full refund  for hospital  treatment  received.  Therefore,  if Mrs T had wanted private 
treatment covered under the policy, she would  have needed to be moved to another  facility. 
Ref: DRN82584362As I understand it, Mr T doesnt think his wife could have received private treatment at their 
local private hospital due to the lack of suitable  facilities, and therefore thinks AXA should 
have offered a network override (presumably therefore allowing her to have treatment in one 
of the private  rooms  at the NHS hospital). 
A network  override is offered by AXA when  treatment  is covered to take place at a non-
network hospital - for example, if AXAs network  hospital doesnt have appropriate facilities  
to provide necessary treatment. 
I dont know if Mrs T could  have continued  her treatment  in one of AXAs network  hospitals  if 
she had asked to transfer to a private facility  from the NHS hospital. But there would need to 
be medical evidence  to confirm why she couldnt  have her treatment in her local network 
hospital before I would expect AXA to consider a network override. That didnt happen  here 
because Mrs T didnt  ask to have her treatment privately. I dont think  its reasonable to 
speculate about  what may or may not have happened if Mrs T had asked to have private 
treatment. 
Mrs T was admitted to the NHS hospital  on a further two occasions  over the next few 
months. I see that Mr T called AXA about these admissions after his wife had been 
discharged on both occasions.  I dont know if those hospital admissions were planned, but it 
seems AXA only became aware of them once Mrs T had been  discharged,  so it couldnt 
have offered her private treatment. However,  it did pay her the NHS cash  benefits  available 
under the policy.
Overall, whilst Ive accepted AXA could have asked  Mr T if his wife wanted private treatment 
during her first hospital admission, I dont think its reasonable to hold AXA responsible  for 
Mrs T continuing her treatment in the NHS hospital when she (or her husband on her behalf) 
didnt tell AXA she wanted private  treatment.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8258436