K821x#15complaint
Miss R and Mrs R complain about  how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim against 
Mrs Rs motor insurance policy following an accident. Miss R is a named driver on the policy. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision,  an extract of which   
is attached and forms part of this final decision.  So, I will not repeat that information  here.  
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I thought  AXA had made a number of errors in 
handling the claim and what it should do to put that right. I invited both parties to let me have 
any further comments and evidence. Miss R said that she was disappointed by my 
provisional decision but didnt have any further comments. AXA accepted my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given that neither Miss R, Mrs R nor AXA 
has provided me with anything further,  I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
AXA made a number of errors, as I set out in my provisional decision. Fair compensation for 
that is a further  £250 in addition to the £250  AXA has already paid. AXA should also pay 
interest to Miss R on the amount she paid to repair the damage by its salvage agent, to the 
date it reimbursed her, as shes been  kept out of the use of that money.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I now require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to:
Pay additional compensation  of £250 in addition to the £250 it has already paid. 
Pay 8% simple interest on £775.60 paid by the salvage agent  from 13 February 2018 
to 29 March 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R and Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN85053392extract of provisional decision
complaint
Miss R and Mrs R complain about  how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim against
Mrs Rs motor insurance policy following an accident. Miss R is a named driver on the policy.
background
On 2 December 2017, Miss R was involved in an accident whilst  driving.  The car was 
damaged and recovered to a garage.  On the next working  day, AXA asked Mrs R for more  
information. On 6 December 2017,  AXA told Mrs R that the car was with its approved  
repairer.
On 7 December 2017, AXA instructed  a salvage company. It didnt tell Miss R or Mrs R 
that it was proceeding on the basis that the car was a total loss. Miss R found out about 
that on 8 December 2017,  when she contacted the garage for an update.
When she viewed the car at the salvage companys premises, Miss R noticed  further  
damage caused by the salvage company and missing property. AXA told Miss R that 
shed have to take the matter up with the salvage company.
Miss R decided that she wanted  to retain the car and arrange the repairs herself.  There 
were difficulties arranging  delivery of the car to Miss Rs garage.
On 21 December 2017, AXA told Miss R that the car was a total loss. It said that it would 
process a payment for the cars pre accident value of £4,950, less the policy  excess  of 
£75 and the salvage value of £1,386.
The salvage  company told Miss R, incorrectly,  that it would register a VIC marker at the 
DVLA. She subsequently discovered that AXA hadnt correctly registered that the car 
had been written off.
In March 2018, AXA told Miss R that it was pursing the uninsured  driver  for its costs. The
salvage company  paid Miss R £775.60 for damage  to the car and missing  property.
In response to the complaint, AXA agreed  that Miss R hadnt received an appropriate level 
of service and communication. It sent her compensation  of £250. Miss R didnt think that 
was enough and pursued the complaint with this service.
Our investigator initially thought that AXA should pay compensation of £250 in addition  to the
£250 it had already paid.  Miss R thought that was enough to cover  her costs and the 
time shed  spent dealing with the matter but that it wasnt sufficient to cover her stress 
and anxiety. She said that they were without a car until mid-February 2018 and she has 
the continued stress of AXA pursuing  its claim against the other  driver.
The investigator considered the matter again and said that AXA should pay £500 in addition  
to the £250 already paid and interest  on compensation paid by the salvage company.  
Miss R asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint.
Ref: DRN85053393Miss R said AXA should say when the policy is taken out if it wouldnt repair  the car 
following a claim. Miss R said that the cost of her insurance has increased because  of the 
claim and that Mrs R was left without transport.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Miss R has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Shes provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which I have  read and considered. However, I 
trust that neither Miss R nor Mrs R will take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what 
I consider the central issues.
Its common ground that AXA made a number of errors here.  Im conscious  that Ive 
condensed what  I dont doubt was a troubling time into a short narrative. That reflects our 
service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. But Im satisfied that Ive captured 
the essence of what happened.
Put simply, AXA didnt initially tell Miss R that it was proceeding on the basis  that the car 
was a total loss, passed the car to a salvage agent without reference to her and then didnt 
help Miss R with the difficulties she had with the salvage  agent. AXA didnt register the car 
as written off. And I cant see that its kept Miss R and Mrs R updated about the progress  of 
its claim against the other driver.
I think if AXA had told Miss R that its decision was that the car was a total loss, she would 
have decided to retain the car and repair it herself. She wouldnt then have suffered the 
difficulties with the salvage  agent.  I think that AXA should have helped Miss R in relation 
to the difficulties she had with the salvage agent and not left her to deal with it herself.
Not all of the inconvenience  Miss R suffered is due to AXAs  errors. Making a claim after an 
accident always involves  some inconvenience,  even  when things go smoothly.  But I can 
see here that Miss R was upset to find out indirectly that AXA wasnt going to repair the car. 
AXAs error in passing  the car to a salvage agent  made it much more  difficult for Miss R to 
retain the car and arrange the repairs herself. AXA compounded its error by not helping  
Miss R with the difficulties  she had with the salvage  agent.
Considering everything, I think total compensation of £500 is fair here, that is, £250  in
addition to the £250 AXA has already  paid.  In reaching that view, Ive taken into account the 
nature, extent and duration of the distress and inconvenience caused  by AXAs errors over 
and above what  Id expect to see in a claim that went smoothly.
Miss R says that Mrs R was without a car from the date of the accident  until mid-February
2018. But AXA settled Miss Rs claim in late December  2017. Under the terms of the policy, 
AXA is entitled to choose to pay the market value of the car, rather than repair  it.
Miss R has said that AXA should say when a policy  is taken out if it wont  repair  a car 
because of its age. The decision about  whether its economical to repair  a car isnt 
necessarily about  its age. Its a factor of the cost of repairs  as against the cars value. So, at 
the start of the policy, AXA wouldnt know whether it would  authorise repairs or choose to 
pay the market value. Its entitled to make that choice under the terms of the policy.
Ref: DRN85053394Miss R says that her renewal premiums have increased. That may well be because  theres  
still an open claim as AXA hasnt  recovered  its outlay from the other driver. Miss R has 
mentioned that shes given further information  in relation to court proceedings. Under  the 
terms of the policy, shes obliged to help AXA take action to recover  its costs. I appreciate 
thats stressful but its not something that Id ask AXA to compensate her for.
I agree with the investigator that AXA should  pay interest to Miss R on the amount she paid 
to repair the damage  by its salvage  agent  to the date it reimbursed her, as shes been kept 
out of the use of that money.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and require
AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay additional compensation  of £250 in addition to the £250  it has already 
paid.
Pay 8% simple interest on £775.60 paid by the salvage agent  from 13 February 
2018 to 29 March  2018.
As Ive said, Ill look at any more comments and evidence  that I get by the date set out 
above, before coming to my final decision.
Ref: DRN8505339