K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says Lloyds  Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy with a credit card.
background
Lloyds doesnt  know exactly when the PPI was sold so they have assumed it was taken  at 
the same  time as the credit card was taken out, which was in 1998.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Fs case.
Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint and Ive explained why below.
Its not straightforward to decide a case when there are no documents  available from the 
time of the sale, as is the case here. The sale happened, most likely, over 20 years ago, so 
Im not surprised that neither Lloyds  nor Mrs F has been able to provide any of the specific 
sale documents from so long ago. Where there isnt much evidence for me to consider, I 
need to make my decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider 
what I do have, look at what  both sides have said, and make a decision based on what  I 
think most likely  happened.  
Mrs F said she hadnt agreed to the cover. Ive seen a credit  card statement from 4 January 
2001 which shows that Mrs F was paying for CARDHOLDER PROTECTION PLAN  on a 
balance carried forward from the previous  statement. I think  that Mrs F would have been 
provided with these statements and I think that its more likely that she would have been 
aware she was paying  for this policy. So if Mrs F hadnt agreed to the PPI then I think her 
statements would have  put her on notice she was paying for something she hadnt  agreed to 
and she would have,  most  likely, raised this as an issue with Lloyds many  years before she 
eventually chose to do.     
Ive not seen anything that clearly shows Lloyds didnt make Mrs F aware  the PPI was 
optional or failed to secure her agreement to take it out. And in any event, considering  how 
long ago the sale was in this case, I havent seen sufficient evidence to be able to uphold  the 
complaint on these points.  So having considered  all the submissions I have  received  in this 
case, I think its more likely  that Lloyds wouldve made Mrs F aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that she chose to take it, even though she may not remember that now, many  
years later. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs F, so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because  Mrs F was eligible for the policy and wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And she seems to have had a need for the cover. I 
Ref: DRN88157582say this as Mrs F told us that whilst  her initial sick pay was good, it wouldnt have lasted at 
her full rate of pay for a year.  And Mrs F told us she had no other means she could rely on in 
that circumstance,  or if she lost her job. This PPI policy couldve covered 10% of Mrs Fs 
monthly balance  for up to 12 months  in either event. So, as this would pay out in addition  to 
any sick pay she may have been entitled to, I think the policy  would have been useful to 
Mrs F if something  went wrong. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been, including the cost of the policy. But for the same reasons that I think the policy was 
suitable, I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint. And I make no award 
against Lloyds  Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8815758