K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Europaische Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) 
responded to their requests  for assistance after Mrs W had an accident  abroad. 
My references to ERV include its agents.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I explained why I intended  to uphold this complaint, and I include an extract  
from that decision here:
In 2018 Mr and Mrs W were travelling abroad. They had single trip travel  insurance with 
ERV, which  expired on 9 May 2018.  During their trip Mr W needed emergency surgery (he 
was happy with the service ERV provided).  But unfortunately Mrs W then fell and broke  
bones in her upper arm, and tore ligaments in her arm and shoulder. This complaint 
concerns their request for assistance and claim following Mrs Ws injury. 
Mrs W broke bones in her upper arm, which was immobilised in a sling. Her orthopaedic 
surgeon advised that she didnt need surgery but that she shouldnt  fly for 40 days. ERV said 
she should be able to fly home, but Mr and Mrs W were concerned about this advice. ERV 
suggested they could arrange  a second  medical opinion. The second consultants  advice 
was the same. ERV said its medical  doctor advised she was fit to fly, and would be medically  
cleared to fly by the airline.  It said if Mrs W wouldnt accept this advice then it wouldnt 
continue to insure them.
Mr and Mrs W were concerned about this advice  by a doctor who hadnt seen or examined  
Mrs W. They asked  for a fit to fly certificate,  which was received after their original return  
flight date. They decided  to remain abroad  until the 40 day period had expired. But they 
complained to ERV that about  its refusal to accept Mrs Ws doctors  medical opinions and 
that it had withdrawn insurance  cover for their extended stay.  ERV said its medical  doctor 
and medical team were trained in aviation medicine,  and were  very familiar with the medical 
clearance procedures  of the airlines.  So it wouldnt change its position.  Mr and Mrs W came  
to us. 
Our casework manager upheld the complaint. He thought  the opinions  of Mrs Ws treating 
doctors were  persuasive. He said ERVs decision that she should fly home and the 
withdrawal of cover caused her and Mr W considerable  distress.  He said it should consider 
their claim in line with the policys (remaining)  terms and conditions  and pay them £300 
compensation. 
ERV didnt agree. It said both of the two doctors Mrs W had consulted had said that she was 
unfit to fly for 40 days, which was unusual. It pointed  out that neither certificate  gave any 
medical reasoning  behind  the doctors decisions,  and said only that she was then in 
treatment with a sling.  Unless  there  were  other  injuries not mentioned  in the reports  its 
medical team had made  a reasonable decision  that Mrs W had been fit to fly much sooner 
than as stated  in the medical certificates.  
ERV also said that the Civil Aviation  Authoritys (CAA)  website gave  no indication that a 
40 day waiting period was necessary before a patient was deemed fit to fly. Its medical team  
are aero-medically qualified to make  final decisions  in all emergency medical repatriation 
Ref: DRN89282162cases. Its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) had overall responsibility to make a repatriation  plan 
for a patient. The role would include determining whether the patient was medically  fit to fly, 
whether they could  safely endure the repatriation home (including  their current condition,  any 
pre-existing medical conditions and the flight duration). The CMO would consider any other 
special measures (which  ERV has listed). It said that the decision of the medical team was 
correct and it couldnt agree to settle  the claim or pay compensation. 
Our casework manager didnt agree with ERVs response to his opinion letter, and said 
Mrs Ws doctors were  experts in orthopaedic surgery  and, as such, he placed considerable 
weight on their evidence.  ERV questioned whether  they were  aero-medically trained. It said 
that weight should be given to its medical  teams  considerable  expertise in the field of 
medical transportation. 
On behalf of them both, Mr W said that he was concerned  that a medical officer in another 
country could make  decisions without examination or communication with Mrs W. The only 
evidence it had was basic x-rays, showing fractures to her upper arm, and two reports from 
the orthopaedic surgeons. Mr W pointed out the second report was carried out at ERVs own 
request by a doctor who was part of its network. ERV then contradicted those reports,  saying 
Mrs W (in her late 60s) could travel and compounded its errors by saying the fractures were 
in her wrist. They are concerned ERV wont accept its errors. They  remained  abroad for the 
remainder of the 40 days, while Mrs W recovered  from her injury and Mr W from major 
surgery  both while uninsured. 
Mr W said that they are not overly  concerned about  the monetary redress,  but rather about 
peace of mind and being  able to rely on the travel  insurer (they  are abroad again and for 
medical and cost reasons have had to insure again with ERV). 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im likely to uphold this 
complaint.
The policy says that if ERVs medical  officer advises  a date when it is feasible and practical 
to repatriate the policyholder, but they choose  instead to remain abroad, ERVs  liability to 
pay any further costs  under that section of the policy (3a Emergency Medical & Repatriation  
Expenses) after that date would be limited  to what it would have paid if their repatriation had 
taken place. 
This is a common term in travel insurance policies, but I need to decide  whether ERV has 
applied it fairly in Mr and Mrs Ws case.  I dont think it has, and Ill explain  why. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs W had a valid claim under section 3a of the policy.  Mr and 
Mrs W are older  people  and both had experienced medical problems on holiday.  From the 
evidence that Ive seen I dont think ERV did enough  to consider their reasonable concerns 
when it was considering Mrs Ws repatriation to the UK.
ERV clearly didnt agree  with the medical  opinion of the first consultant  orthopaedic surgeon. 
It offered  a second  medical opinion. But I dont  think ERV properly considered Mrs Ws point 
of view when that second medical opinion was the same as the first. The fact was that 
Mrs W had been examined  by two orthopaedic surgeons and had been  advised by both of 
them not to fly for 40 days.
Ref: DRN89282163It was understandable  that Mr and Mrs W were going to put Mrs Ws health first. So I think  
the onus was on ERV to assess Mrs Ws health  and explain clearly  to her and Mr W why it 
thought she was, in fact, fit to fly. I dont think ERV did this. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws concern  about  a desktop review  by a medical officer in 
another country. I should  say that travel insurers do employ doctors  who are trained in 
aviation medicine.  Those doctors review  cases every day to assess  whether it is safe for 
their insured  customers to be flown home. They are also very familiar with the medical 
clearance requirements of airlines.  So I think ERV has made a fair point about its own 
medical officers assessment of a consumers fitness  to fly. But I think  the issue  in this case  
is that it failed to explain clearly to Mr and Mrs W why it thought  she was fit to fly, and to offer 
sufficient reassurance that she could safely travel.
I can see that that ERVs  medical officer did review the medical  reports and her x-rays. But 
he could also have  spoke  with one or both of Mrs Ws consulting orthopaedic surgeons to 
ask them  why they thought she shouldnt fly for 40 days. ERVs own medically trained staff 
could have spoken to Mrs W to ask her questions about her health, which  isnt uncommon. 
I see that in a review  while investigating  the complaint  ERVs  medical team  queried whether 
she might  have had any other injuries  or medical  issues which possibly  could have made it 
unsafe for her to fly. 
The timescales in this case were tight and Mr and Mrs W and their daughter had to chase 
ERV about the second  medical  report and what  to do about their return  flight on 8 May 2018. 
On 7 May 2018  ERV said that its medical  team saw no reason why they shouldnt  fly the 
following day. But Mr and Mrs W were very concerned about this and contacted  ERV saying 
theyd be acting against the terms of the policy if they failed to follow  the medical advice 
Mrs W had been given.  
It wasnt until 10 May 2018 that they were given  the fit to fly certificate  completed  by ERVs 
medical officer on 9 May 2018. ERV had properly considered  the additional needs of Mrs W, 
including a business class flight, luggage assistance and a taxi. But what it hadnt done was 
to discuss with Mrs W why its medical  officers decision differed from her own doctors 
opinions and why it was reasonable and safe for her to fly. In these circumstances, it seems 
to me that she reasonably thought she had no alternative but to remain  abroad.  
So I think ERV should consider Mr and Mrs Ws claim  for their costs under the policy, and it 
is not entitled to limit that claim payment to 9 May 2018  the date that its medical officer  
said Mrs W was fit to fly. I understand that Mr and Mrs W were able to change  the date of 
their flight  directly with their airline,  which accepted  the medical reports  and made  the 
change at no cost to them. For their flight the airline also offered to upgrade  their flights  to 
premium economy, at a cost of £389.09,  which they did pay. ERV should pay this upgrade  
cost. In any event, it seems likely to me that the cost to ERV of Mr and Mrs Ws upgraded 
flights to premium economy is likely to be less than the cost of a single business  class flight 
upgrade (as recommended  in ERVs  medical officers fit to fly certificate).  
Like our casework manager, I think Mr and Mrs W were caused  real distress by ERVs 
decision. Mrs W had an injury and Mr W had needed surgery,  and they knew  they werent 
insured should  anything  else happen during their extended time abroad. I think its 
reasonable for ERV to pay compensation for this distress and inconvenience and I think  
£300 is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN89282164responses to my provisional  decision
ERV responded  to say that it had noted my comments, but said it disagreed  with my 
provisional decision. 
Mr W and Mrs W responded  to say that as theyd already described their suffering their 
comments related to my summation of the case.  Id found lack of communication  was the 
main concern. They said this did exacerbate matters, but in their opinion ERV showed a lack 
of concern through bad business practice, and didnt have  any reasonable grounds for failing 
to deliver its contractual services. They said local medical opinion  shouldnt have been 
overridden by a remote medical officer  despite their experienced. It was ridiculous that ERV 
overrode the decision of the consultant  orthopaedic surgeon that it had asked  them to see. 
This is the crux of the matter, and ERV wrongly  applied the clause in its terms and 
conditions without reasonable  doubt.  It requires an admission of bad management and an 
apology at the very least. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still uphold  this 
complaint.
I see that ERV disagrees with my provisional  decision  but hasnt given any additional 
reasons. Ive also thought carefully  about  Mr and Mrs Ws comments. 
ERV certainly should have done  more in this case.  As Ive explained in my provisional 
decision ERV should have spoken with the two consultants who had actually seen Mrs W to 
understand why they thought she wasnt fit to fly. So I dont  think  it did apply  the clause in 
its terms and conditions  fairly in this case. We dont know now whether ERVs medical officer 
would have come  to a different view about  Mrs Ws fitness to fly had he spoken to the 
treating doctors  and whether  that would have made altered ERVs view that she was fit to 
travel. But this doesnt change the outcome. I dont think  ERV handled  matters  properly and 
this did go beyond just its communication  with Mrs W.
I think the fair outcome must still be for ERV to consider Mr and Mrs Ws claim for additional 
expenses and to pay the £300 compensation Ive awarded. I dont require ERV also to make 
an admission of bad practice  and apology in addition to the apology it made in its final 
response letter. 
Ref: DRN89282165my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision and in this final decision I uphold 
this complaint. 
I require Europaische  Reiseversicherung  AG to consider Mr and Mrs Ws claim for the 
additional costs  they incurred to the date they returned to the UK, in line with the remaining 
policy terms. For the avoidance of doubt  ERV must not limit those costs to the period to 
9 May 2018,  when  it said Mrs W was fit to fly. ERV can deduct from the claim settlement any 
payment its already paid to Mr and Mrs W for their claim for Mrs Ws injury. I also require 
ERV to pay Mr and Mrs W £300  compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
ERV must pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and 
Mrs W accept  my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 May 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If ERV considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs W how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs W a certificate  showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim  the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8928216