K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the overall suitability of the advice he received  from deVere  and 
Partners (UK) Limited (deVere) to transfer his pension benefits to a Qualifying Recognised 
Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS). He says he was told he could hold a wide variety of 
investments in the pension but was unable to arrange investment into a bond that he wanted 
to make because of the changes deVere made to the original recommendation. He says this 
has caused him a financial  loss because  his funds have been  held in cash  instead  of the 
investments he wanted to make.
Mr M has also complained that deVere didnt make him aware that the income  that was paid 
to him from the QROPS  would be drawn directly  from the capital if there  was no growth on 
the plan to draw  from.
And hes further complained about what he says were  excessive  advice charges from 
deVere.
background
The background to this complaint, and my previous conclusions,  were set out in my 
provisional decisions dated 12 August 2019  and 4 June  2021 but Ive summarised the 
events again below. Ive attached a copy of the first provisional decision to the bottom of this 
decision.
Mr M was leaving the UK and going to live permanently overseas in the UAE. He met with 
deVere and agreed to transfer the personal  pension and small self-administered scheme 
(SSAS) benefits he held into a QROPS. Based  on the merits of the jurisdictions that were  
recommended to him he agreed to transfer to a Gibraltar based  scheme   because it offered 
a broader range of investments. 
But, because of previous bankruptcy issues, deVere  couldnt transfer to the recommended 
platform and decided  to use a different one  but it also decided to switch  to a Maltese  
based scheme. This was completed in late 2014, but separate documentation relating  to the 
investment strategy  wasnt  completed  until 2015.  
By July 2015, Mr M had completed his move and, as he was no longer resident in the UK, 
wasnt eligible to be advised  by deVere   who passed  on that responsibility to another  part of 
its group.  However,  during this time no investment instructions were carried out on Mr Ms 
funds and they remained in cash.
Mr M wanted to invest into a bond  he had previously discussed with deVere in 2014,  but 
because the Maltese  jurisdiction didnt offer the same breadth of investments, he wasnt  able 
to invest into the bond.  
Mr M complained about that matter and also about erosion of his capital because he said he 
wasnt told the income that hed withdrawn would be taken directly  from the funds. He also 
complained that plan and adviser charges were excessive. 
But deVere  said it had made Mr M aware of the possible erosion that might occur  if he 
wanted income that exceeded the growth on the QROPS.  And it explained that the change  
of its recommended platform and jurisdiction   to Malta, had been  suitable in the 
circumstances. It said unfortunately that meant  the bond couldnt be used  as an investment 
Ref: DRN86365592due to the restrictions under a QROPS based  in Malta. But it said that a scheme  based  in 
Malta did benefit from a lower tax regime, so Mr M had an equally suitable investment.
Mr M brought his complaint to us where one of our adjudicators upheld it but deVere didnt 
agree with that outcome,  so it was passed  to me for review.
In my first provisional decision  I explained why I thought this complaint should  be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. I 
said that deVere should calculate any loss arising  from comparing the value of the QROPS  
had it been invested from August 2014,  against a benchmark which  represented Mr Ms 
attitude to risk. The loss should be established to the point that servicing  rights  of Mr Ms 
plan were passed to deVere in Dubai but should  be brought  up to date. I also said deVere 
should pay Mr M £300 for the disruption  to his retirement planning. But I didnt think  deVere 
should have to return any of the fees it had charged.
I set out the reasons for my decision as follows:
The initial recommendation of a QROPS,  based  on Mr Ms situation,  was suitable.
It seemed that in August  2014  deVere had found a new platform which would accept 
the QROPS based in Gibraltar, without the need for any further paperwork. Based on 
the time taken to complete  the transfer  in 2014  a transfer to the new platform  could  
have been achieved in around three  weeks.
The available evidence didnt support the benefit  of a switch to a Maltese QROPS, as 
the new platform could  have  continued  with the original recommendation to use 
Gibraltar.
Although deVere said it presented Mr M with the new recommendation to use the 
Maltese QROPS  and he agreed with it, the available evidence didnt support why 
deVere changed its recommendation.
Whilst it wasnt fair to say the problem with Mr M investing into the bond  was caused 
entirely by the change  of recommendation, it was reasonable to suggest  that his 
potential choice of investments  was wider within the Gibraltar  QROPS.
The evidence didnt  support the position that changing the QROPS  jurisdiction  was in 
Mr Ms best interest  and the delay in completing the application  for Malta meant that 
Mr M couldnt invest his funds before deVere was no longer able to advise him.
The bond Mr M wanted to invest in wasnt launched when deVere made its first 
recommendation so I couldnt reasonably say he would have invested in the bond.  
But I did set out a benchmark to demonstrate  the kind of investment Mr M would 
have used  based on his agreed  risk profile.
I thought Mr M was made aware that his capital might be eroded if his income 
withdrawals exceeded the plans growth, so I didnt think deVere did anything wrong 
there.
I couldnt reasonably  conclude  deVeres  advice charges were excessive as theres 
generally no regulatory limit on what can be taken as fees. 
But I would have  expected deVere to have made Mr M aware  of its fees,  which I was 
satisfied it had done.   
Initially Mr M accepted the first provisional  decision.  But he explained that hed transferred 
his pension into a personal savings account and wanted the compensation paid into that 
account. He also confirmed that he was a non-tax payer and thought  the redress  should be 
paid without any notional  deduction for tax. He then provided information to show  that he 
was a non-tax  payer in the UAE.  
Ref: DRN86365593deVere didnt  accept that it had done anything wrong. It provided a statement from its 
adviser to demonstrate that its advice had been  suitable, and that Mr M was happy with the 
switch to a Maltese  QROPS because he was thinking of self-managing the funds. 
It also noted that Mr M said he was a non-tax  payer and asked for confirmation  of this point. 
When confirmation was provided  and deVere became aware that Mr M had encashed his 
pension, it explained  that there was tax treaty between the UAE and Malta  which  meant 
Mr M didnt  pay tax on the QROPS proceeds. But it said that wouldnt have applied to the 
Gibraltar QROPS if hed remained within it and drawn his benefits  in the same way. 
But subsequently deVere did agree to run a calculation to see if Mr M was better  off a result 
of the transfer  to a Maltese  QROPS.  
It confirmed Mr M had suffered a loss of £22,839.99 in total (with interest and payment for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused) as a result of not being invested during 2014/2015. 
But it said Mr M had also drawn  the benefits  from his plan without the deduction of tax. It 
said that, if hed remained with the Gibraltar QROPS, he would have  paid tax of £192,772.30 
which meant that overall, he was £169,932.31 better  off.  It said that Mr M hadnt suffered a 
loss and therefore the outcome of the complaint should declare a no loss situation. 
Mr Ms representative responded making the following points:
Id said in my first provisional decision that it only covered the period from May 2014  
to July 2015 and that deVere wasnt responsible for actions taken after this time. This 
included the decision  to transfer  the funds from the QROPS to Mr Ms bank account. 
So the consideration period for the complaint should  end in July 2015  and it therefore  
wasnt fair for deVere to benefit from Mr Ms tax efficient decisions,  having previously 
given unsuitable  advice. The representative said that, if deVere had acted correctly  in 
2014, Mr M would  have been £16,573.52  better off.
Mr M pays tax in his country of residence,  regardless  of where  the QROPS  was 
based. Mr M is resident in the UAE and therefore doesnt pay tax, so he wouldnt 
have paid any tax on the transfer  in 2018,  whichever QROPS plan he held.
The UAE and the UK signed a double tax treaty in 2016, which although after the 
date deVere ceased  to advise  Mr M, further supports the argument that Mr M would 
not have paid tax on his QROPS  proceeds. 
The mitigation  of the loss occurred long after the period during which deVere didnt 
act according to Mr Ms investment instructions and should  be seen as an entirely 
separate event.
deVere then made the following points:
Mr M is substantially better off as a result of the change in QROPS jurisdictions from 
Gibraltar to Malta.
Its intention had been to advise Mr M to set up a QROPS and invest the funds 
accordingly before it had to transfer  its advice  responsibility to another part of its 
group overseas.  
It agreed it wasnt responsible for any advice that was given after its overseas  
business took over the servicing of his plan. But it didnt think it was responsible  for 
any delays between  May 2014  and July 2015 as this was caused by Mr Ms failure to 
disclose his previous bankruptcy. 
It accepted the delay  in investing Mr Ms funds  had caused his fund to be lower  than 
it would  have been, had it been invested  during 2014-2015. But the fact remained 
Ref: DRN86365594that Mr Ms longer-term actions meant he was better off because of the lower amount  
of tax he paid on his pension benefits,  based on the Maltese QROPS rules.
Although Mr M resided in a country  where  he doesnt pay tax, the rules about 
whether tax can be applied to the QROPS are determined by the country the scheme  
is based in. In Mr Ms case, he would not have  been allowed  to transfer his Gibraltar  
based QROPS if hed remained in it, and the Gibraltar regulations meant  he would 
have to pay tax on his benefits.  Under the Maltese scheme  he simply would not have 
had to pay tax on the proceeds. 
In reference  to the double tax agreement between the UK and UAE, this wouldnt 
have affected  the premise  that to withdraw money from a Gibraltar QROPS Mr M 
would have had to pay tax. 
It was undisputed that Mr M had taken the proceeds from his QROPS without paying 
tax. If hed remained within the Gibraltan jurisdiction that wouldnt have been the 
case. So Mr M is now better off as a result of switching  to a Maltese QROPS and it 
wouldnt be fair for him to be compensated further and be substantially  better  off as 
result.
Mr M did accept  the basis of deVeres  calculation and noted it was in line with my 
recommendations. He said he had nothing  further  to add but thought he should receive 
compensation in line with my first provisional decision. 
I then asked Mr Ms representative to confirm  whether, as a transfer  to UAE to Gibraltar 
wouldnt have been possible, Mr M would have  taken  the advice to invest  in a broader range 
of investments and pay 2.5% per annum income  tax on his withdrawals above the tax free 
cash level, or to have invested  in the Maltese  QROPS and then pay no tax on the transfer of 
his benefits. 
Mr Ms representative said that he wasnt given the option and couldnt  therefore say which 
he would  have preferred  other than he would have followed whichever strategy  put him in 
the best financial position, which he disputed  that deVere achieved  given the fees and costs 
involved in its advice.
My second  provisional  decision
In my second provisional decision  I came to same  conclusion but for some slightly  different 
reasons. I added the following findings  to my earlier conclusion:
I was satisfied that Mr M would have  paid tax on any proceeds  above his tax free 
entitlement from a Gibraltan based QROPS. There was no tax treaty between 
Gibraltar and the UAE similar to the one that existed between Malta  and the UAE.
The current dispute between the parties was whether deVere should offset the tax 
savings Mr M made when he transferred his pension  benefits  into a bank account  in 
the UAE, against the losses I said hed suffered as a result of remaining uninvested  
until the servicing rights  of his QROPS were  transferred to an overseas jurisdiction.
After careful consideration I thought that, when deVere give its initial advice  in 2014, 
it was aware that Mr M would be settling in the UAE. So I thought  that if the tax treaty 
between Malta and the UAE was in place then, a suitable recommendation would 
have been for Mr M to transfer to a Maltese  QROPS.
I thought this was an obvious recommendation given the very favourable tax 
treatment of funds on withdrawals to the UAE.
Ref: DRN86365595Mr M would still have  had the opportunity to invest  in funds similar  to those 
recommended to him in the Gibraltar QROPS   although the bond wouldnt have 
been available to him. But in any case,  this wasnt available  when he received the 
initial advice.
The recommendation would therefore  have been similar to the situation Mr M 
eventually found himself in  which I think therefore was suitable.  But this would  have 
meant there was no need to find an alternative jurisdiction and so there would have 
been no delay  in processing  the transfer and investing the funds in line with Mr Ms 
attitude to risk.
So deVere should compensate Mr M for a period  from 1 July 2014  to the date the 
servicing rights were transferred to Dubai   using an appropriate benchmark  to 
reflect the risk profile of his investment.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M accepted the provisional decision and said he had no further submissions to make. But 
deVere didnt  accept the findings. It said that:
The recommendation to transfer  to a Malta  based QROPS was discussed in 2014   
but it was agreed that a wider investment opportunity  was more important to Mr M. It 
thought it had carefully considered  all the options available to Mr M and discussed 
them with him, so it thought it had done all that was required  in what  is a very 
complex area of planning. 
It thought that if it had explained a recommendation  along  the lines that I suggested  
then Mr M would still have been  unlikely to have transferred to Malta, because when 
given that alternative he chose  to utilise a QROPS with more  investment 
opportunities.
I had said that the transfer would have completed by 1 July 2014, however it took 
until 15 August 2014 before the first money  was available  for investment. On that 
basis deVere wanted me to explain why I thought it was possible for the transfer to 
have taken place  six weeks earlier. 
And therefore, if I accepted that the start date for the redress ought  to be 
15 August 2014  then the redress would be the same as deVere had calculated 
previously. It thought  that the addition of more interest because of the delays  in 
reaching the same outcome was unfair  and would  add a not insignificant  extra  cost to 
deVere. 
So, I wrote  to both parties to answer deVeres response and to make an amendment  to the 
proposed redress  calculation. I said that deVere had previously referred  to the transfer  to the 
Maltese QROPS as being a huge benefit  so I thought it should have identified  this benefit 
to Mr M during its advice  process and recommended it to him. 
Although deVere  thought that Mr M would still have chosen the alternative  QROPS 
(Gibraltar) because of the wider investment opportunity it offered, I thought  that if hed been 
made aware  of the huge benefit of the tax treaty between UAE and Malta  it was more likely  
than not he would have gone ahead with that recommendation.
I also explained to deVere that, while the delays in reaching a decision here were 
regrettable, there were  many reasons for this including giving both parties the opportunity to 
respond to our findings and make further submissions, many  of which  had taken the 
complaint into new, complex areas. 
Ref: DRN86365596And I accepted that it was difficult to be sure of what caused the delay in transferring the 
bulk of the transfer  from the SSAS until 15 August 2015. So I thought  that date ought to be 
used as the start date for the redress calculation. 
deVere didnt  respond to my interim communication but Mr M accepted the revised  proposal.
   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont propose to set out the background or the subsequent communications  between all the 
parties again in my decision. I think that deVere ought to have  recommended  that Mr M 
invested into the Malta QROPS from 15 August  2014, because I think  it represented the 
most suitable option for him in respect of the substantial  tax benefit arising from a tax treaty  
between Malta and UAE  which had been in place since 2009. 
I think if deVere had made such a recommendation then Mr M would  have accepted it and 
his funds would have been  invested  in line with his ATR from the date set out above. Ill 
confirm the way that redress  should be calculated below.
But I think I should also confirm that I dont think deVere did anything  wrong with regards  to 
its charges or the suggestion that it didnt tell Mr M that his income might be drawn directly 
from his capital in the event of the growth not being sufficient. So I dont think  deVere needs 
to do anything in respect  of those elements of Mr Ms complaint.  
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr M would have  invested earlier than he did. Its not possible to say precisely what 
he would  have done, but as Ive set out above,  Im satisfied that deVere would have been 
able to identify  and recommend investments appropriate for Mr M (and his attitude to risk) 
within a Maltese QROPS  and I therefore  consider what Ive set out below  is fair and 
reasonable, given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested.
What should deVere do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, deVere  must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
deVere should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, deVere should pay that amount  direct to him  he has now 
withdrawn his pension  funds free of tax.
Ref: DRN86365597Pay to Mr M £300 for the disruption to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If deVere deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much  has been  taken off. deVere should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
QROPS transferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bonds15 August  
2014date 
transferred  
servicing 
rights  to 
Dubai8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  deVere should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank  of 
England. The rate for each  month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  Those 
rates should  be applied  to the investment on an annually compounded  basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if deVere  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Ref: DRN86365598Mr M wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Mr M into that position.  It does not mean that Mr M 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects  the sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that deVere and Partners (UK) Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
deVere and Partners  (UK) Limited  should  provide details  of its calculation to Mr M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2021.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
copy of first provisional decision
complaint
Mr M complains about  the overall  suitability of the advice  he received from deVere and Partners (UK) 
Limited (deVere) to transfer his pension  benefits  to a Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension 
Scheme (QROPS).  He says he was told he could hold a wide variety  of investments  in the pension  
but was unable to arrange  investment into a bond that he wanted to make because  of the changes  
deVere made  to the original  recommendation.  He says this has caused him a financial loss because  
his funds have been held in cash  instead  of the investments he wanted to make.
Mr M has also complained that deVere didnt  make him aware that the income that was paid to him 
from the QROPS would  be drawn directly from the capital if there was no growth on the plan to draw 
from.
Ref: DRN86365599And hes further complained  about what he says were  excessive advice charges  from deVere.
background
In May 2014,  as he was leaving the UK and expected to live permanently overseas,  Mr M met with 
deVere to discuss options around his existing small self-administered pension scheme  and a personal 
pension  with total fund values of in excess of £765,000. DeVere said Mr M could choose to:
do nothing.
Transfer the benefits  of both plans into one plan with a UK registered pension scheme.
Transfer to a QROPS.
DeVere recommended  Mr M should transfer his pension benefits to a QROPS and said 
he should consider moving his pension to either a Maltese or Gibraltar jurisdiction.  Moving  the 
pension to Malta wouldve meant lower tax on income withdrawals, but Gibraltar  which was the 
recommended destination   offered a broader range of investment options.  DeVere also established 
that Mr M was a cautious to low moderate risk investor.
An application was made to transfer the existing  pensions into a QROPS  based in Gibraltar, onto a 
platform using a discretionary fund manager (DFM). DeVere charged Mr M 3% of the value of his fund 
 less the amount  of tax free cash taken  for this advice.
But in August  2014 deVere, having established that Mr M had previous bankruptcy  issues  which 
meant the original platform wouldnt accept  his transfer  recommended using  a different platform  and 
decided to switch to the QROPS based in Malta.  
There was no documented confirmation of the recommendation  to make  this change  to 
Mr Ms pension plan,  but the completed application form said that the plan should  start from 
1 October 2014.
In October 2014, during email correspondence between the adviser and Mr M, reference was made to 
investing into a NBD 2014 Tier 1 bond  which  promised  returns  of 6.375%.
By mid-November 2014, the pension benefits  which  had been received in the Gibraltar QROPS  were 
in a new plan arranged in Malta.  But new documentation was required in order for a new investment 
vehicle to be in place. This wasnt completed until March  2015.
In June 2015,  residual benefits from one of Mr Ms existing UK pensions  were  sent to the new 
QROPS through the previously arranged  plan in Gibraltar.
By July 2015,  as Mr M was no longer residing in the UK, deVere  transferred the responsibility for 
investment advice to their related group business in Dubai. At that time,  Mr Ms pension benefits 
hadnt been invested, they were held in a US dollar account.
But Mr M couldnt invest into the bond that had been discussed in October  2014 as the QROPS  
wouldnt accept it. So Mr M complained. He said deVere had told him that he could invest  into the 
bond regardless and had discussed it previously with him. And he said that deVere hadnt made him 
aware that any income he might withdraw  would  be taken from his capital if the funds werent  
invested.
DeVere didnt  uphold the complaint. It said it had given warnings that Mr Ms funds could be eroded if 
the income he required  was in excess of the returns on his funds. And it said it had told Mr M that he 
could invest into the bond when the recommendation was for a QROPS  in Gibraltar.  But it said the 
switch to a Maltese QROPS  restricted the use of the bond as a suitable investment.
Unhappy with the response Mr M brought his complaint  to us, where  one of our adjudicators looked 
into the matter  and recommended it should be upheld.
Ref: DRN863655910He said there  was no rationale to explain why the original recommendation to arrange  the Gibraltar 
QROPS shouldve been  changed. He said the Malta option had previously  been discounted and there 
was no reason why Mr M couldnt  have retained the Gibraltar  QROPS. The adjudicator  concluded that 
Mr M had been delayed in arranging  investments for his pension benefits  and he should be 
compensated for any losses that he may have  incurred because of being  unable to invest.
DeVere disagreed,  it said both QROPS  options were  equally suitable. It said whilst there was no 
documentary evidence to show why the earlier  advice  was being  amended, it had been agreed by 
Mr M. DeVere  said it wasnt responsible for the delay  in investing Mr Ms funds as he hadnt  initially 
disclosed his bankruptcy  and it was this that had caused the delay and the recommendation to be 
changed.
The adjudicator remained of the same opinion. He explained that the bankruptcy didnt prevent Mr M 
from retaining his Gibraltar QROPS. He said deVere had already confirmed it had a second 
investment management firm lined up to accept Mr Ms investment if it couldnt  have used the firm it 
initially recommended.
So he thought there was ample opportunity to arrange  an investment for Mr M. Even if it had been 
reasonable to move  the pension to Malta, the benefits were received there in mid-November 2014, 
but werent invested  by the time deVere  ceased being Mr Ms adviser.  Yet during  that time Mr M was 
being charged  an ongoing  advisory fee and no appropriate investment had been arranged.
DeVere said it didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman  to make a final decision, so the complaint has 
been passed  to me. 
In its final submissions deVere confirmed:
The adjudicator had accepted  that it had acted  appropriately  until November  2014.
It provided a timeline to show that it hadnt caused any delays after November 2014 as it had 
done its best to ensure all the necessary documentation to make the transfer was completed 
as quickly as possible.
Before  the transfer could be completed it had to ensure Mr M received his tax free cash, had 
his income payments set up, and set up a new underlying  investment vehicle.
There was only a small window after March 2015  before it transferred Mr Ms servicing 
rights to its Dubai operation, that it may have been able to complete the investment strategy. 
But if Mr M had already moved permanently  by this time it wouldnt have been able to advise  
him anyway. 
In February 2018 Mr M transferred the funds within his QROPS to an account  at his bank in Dubai 
where they still remain.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
The initial recommendation  of a QROPS
Ive looked very carefully at deVeres initial advice from May 2014 for Mr M to transfer his existing 
pensions to a QROPS,  based in Gibraltar, and to invest through a DFM onto a platform. And, looking 
at Mr Ms situation, this doesnt seem an unreasonable recommendation to make.  Mr M was 
expecting to go and live abroad permanently  and while I can see deVere set out the alternative 
options for Mr M  I dont believe its recommendation was unsuitable in the circumstances. 
The transfer  seemed to proceed relatively smoothly until deVere was made aware  in 
Ref: DRN863655911July 2014 that Mr M had previously been  made  bankrupt   which caused  a problem with the proposed 
platform who ultimately  wouldnt accept the transfer.  
But Ive seen  how in an email dated  3 July 2014 deVere said as a last resort  we use a different 
platform and fill in a new application form but lets get the final word from RBC.
And by 8 August 2014  deVere  confirmed good news, I have found a platform  that (the DFM) can use, 
they wont  need any paperwork on you and the charge is only 0.25%.
So it seemed that in August 2014 the original transfer process could  have been restarted  using a 
different platform. And Ive seen evidence  that the trustees of the QROPS eventually sent an 
application to the new platform on 11 February 2015 and were ready to process the payments into the 
plan by 7 March 2015.  So the time taken to complete the transfer was around three weeks from when  
the platform  that said it would accept the transfer was first approached.
The delay in making  an underlying investment
Ive then gone  on to consider why Mr Ms funds werent  transferred and invested until mid-2015 when  
the transfer process had begun in May 2014  albeit there was the bankruptcy issue which caused 
some disruption  to the process.  
And Ive very carefully considered the information  deVere gathered during this time,  as it said it had to 
make a new recommendation for Mr M to switch to a QROPS in Malta which   because of the new 
processes involved with the QROPS and the new platform, meant that the transfer wasnt completed 
until mid-July 2015 when Mr M had already moved abroad and could no longer be advised by deVere 
(UK). 
But, based on what Ive seen, theres no evidence  to support  deVeres decision to switch  
Mr M to a different QROPS  (and investment  provider) because its clear  and deVere has accepted 
this  that the original recommendation to transfer to a QROPS in Gibraltar,  and use the original DM, 
could have continued with the new platform that had to be found  because  of the bankruptcy issues. 
And theres no evidence to show why deVere changed its recommendation.  Although it said Mr M 
agreed to the change   and it had originally suggested there were  good reasons to invest  into either 
QROPS, theres  no record of the reasons that caused  deVere to change  its recommendation of the 
QROPS to a Maltese jurisdiction. 
It would be with the benefit  of hindsight to say that Mr Ms problem with investing into the bond he 
heard about in September 2014 was only caused by deVeres new recommendation  that he 
transferred into the Malta  QROPS. 
But it was noted that one of the reasons for preferring  Gibraltar was the wider variety of investments 
that could be used. So I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that Mr M might have considered  
using certain  investments because  he was made aware it was one of the advantages  of using 
Gibraltar, and more crucially one of the disadvantages of using Malta.
So based on what was known at the time of the advice  and at the time a new platform  was chosen  
I cant  see it was in Mr Ms best interests to switch to a different QROPS. There  wasnt a need to have 
to do that purely because  of the change  of platform and as a result of the switch  the transfer  took 
many more months to complete  which meant Mr M couldnt invest  his funds before deVere was no 
longer able to advise him.
So I think deVere should compensate Mr M for any loss hes suffered from not being  invested in line 
with his attitude to risk from three weeks after the date deVere confirmed  it had found an alternative 
platform  because  ultimately the new platform was able to process an application  in three weeks.   
Ive set out my method for calculating  this potential loss below. 
The suitability of any underlying investment recommendation
Ref: DRN863655912In its suitability report deVere said that although Malta has a zero tax agreement we have discounted 
this due to the restrictions in investment models  in Malta. It is therefore  more  favourable to hold the 
QROPS in Gibraltar
And deVere  recommended  that Mr M used a DFM who would invest  in line with his cautious to low 
moderate risk profile which it had determined when it assessed his attitude  to risk. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I consider  that to be a reasonable recommendation to have made  
and I think it was in line with Mr Ms preferred investment strategy. So I think  its fair to assume  that he 
would have invested along those lines. But he wasnt able to do that because the DFM wasnt able to 
look after Mr Ms money before deVere was no longer able to advise him. So Ive set out a benchmark 
below which reflects that, in my view, Mr M would have been prepared to take a small risk with his 
money. 
I know Mr M would like me to say that he would have invested into the NBD 2014 Tier 1 bond which 
he asked deVere about in an email  in October 2014. But deVere couldnt have recommended  that 
bond because it wasnt launched when  it first made its recommendation to Mr M in May 2014. And, as 
Ive already said Mr Ms transfer  and underlying  investment should have  been completed before the 
bond was launched  (September 2014) then it wouldnt be fair for me to use that as the benchmark  of 
what returns Mr M would have received on his money. So I think  the benchmark Ive used below, 
bearing in mind no underlying investment  was actually  made, is the best indication of the level of risk 
Mr M was likely to have taken.    
The drawing of income from the capital
Mr M has said that the funds were not invested and that the income, which was drawn annually, and 
contrary to the verbal advice provided was automatic once put in place,  simply took the income funds  
out of the capital sum.
And Ive carefully considered  what Mr M has said here, because if deVere didnt make him aware  of 
the potential for drawing against his capital then the lack of investment for the period in question 
would have made the problem worse and potentially  I can see Mr M might have chosen to reduce  his 
income and leave that money invested in his pension. 
But Mr M agreed with deVere  that his annual withdrawal should  be £30,000 which  was around 5% of 
the residual value of the fund after tax free cash was taken  and Mr M also agreed that he should  be 
considered a cautious to low risk investor. I dont think its reasonable for an investor with such  a risk 
profile to expect withdrawals of 5% to always  be covered  by the growth on the plan. So I think  Mr M 
should have expected some erosion of his capital  if he wanted withdrawals as agreed. 
I note that deVeres suitability report did contain a risk warning for that eventuality; it said the 
maximum gross  annual income will be £44,718.75. You need  to consider  if you need this level of 
income as it is likely to reduce the capital value if you take income in excess  of. Unfortunately the 
sentence was incomplete, but I think it highlighted the point that if growth didnt exceed income then 
the capital within the pension  could be eroded. So Im satisfied  that Mr M was made  aware of this to 
some degree.   
Mr M has stated  that his income  could have been covered by the growth  on the bond he wanted to 
invest in, and he should  then have been advised not to take any additional income  above that level of 
return. But I think  Mr M makes that point in hindsight  as Ive already said the bond wasnt available 
when deVere made its recommendation about investment strategy and income/withdrawals.  
The advice charges 
Mr M says the amount  he was charged for the advice was excessive. However, theres  generally no 
regulatory limit on the amount that either a provider or an adviser can take by way of charges or fees.  
Nor is there any mention  in the rules of excessive  fees. So I cant  safely  say whether deVeres  
charges were excessive.  
Ref: DRN863655913What I would  expect though is for deVere to have  made Mr M aware of its advice fee  and from the 
evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that it did that within its terms of engagement  letter and suitability  
report. So I cant say deVere hasnt made Mr M aware of its charges and I cant  say that they were  
excessive in the circumstances.  
fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible  into the position  he would probably now be 
in if he had been given  suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have  invested  differently.  Its not possible to say precisely  what he 
would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr M's circumstances and objectives  when  he invested. 
what should deVere do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, deVere must:
Compare the performance  of Mr M's investment  with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
DeVere should add interest as set out below. 
If there  is a loss, deVere should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount  paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.  
If deVere  is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr M's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at the selected retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would  have been able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
 Pay to Mr M £300 for the disruption  to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If deVere deducts  income tax from the interest it 
should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. deVere should give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
QROPS transferredfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 29 August  
2014 (3 weeks  
after new 
platform was 
identified)date of transfer 
of servicing to 
Dubai.8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Ref: DRN863655914Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, deVere should  use the 
monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates  
should be applied  to the investment on an annually  compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. 
If there  are a large number  of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if deVere 
totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.  
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean that Mr M would  have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr M could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation money  since the 
end date.
Whilst the formula set out above covers the issue of any growth Mr M may have lost while his funds  
were held in cash, Ive also thought carefully  about the initial fees that Mr M paid. Ive borne  in mind 
he said they were excessive, and Ive said there was no need for the second recommendation of a 
QROPS based in Malta.
Ref: DRN863655915But I do think  that deVeres  initial recommendation  was suitable and that was essentially what Mr M 
paid for. And I note that Mr M has subsequently transferred his QROPS to an account with his bank 
so theres no scope for me to consider whether  the investment  should be transferred back  to Gibraltar 
as Mr M has already made his decision  about  where  he wants his funds  invested. 
Ive also noted that although  Mr M wasnt able to invest in a product he wanted to  which Ive 
addressed in my recommendation above   he did benefit  from the advantageous tax regime  when he 
made the subsequent withdrawals from the Maltese QROPS. 
So, overall  Ive decided that Mr M has had sufficient benefit from the recommendation deVere made, 
and Im not going to ask it to return  any of the fees it charged.
  
my provisional  decision 
For the reasons  that Ive given Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ms complaint. My decision is that 
deVere and Partners (UK) Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
DeVere and Partners (UK) Limited should provide details  of its calculation to Mr M in a clear,  simple 
format.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8636559