K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr H recalls that it wasnt made clear the policy was optional. YBS has shown us copies of 
the paperwork from the time of the sale. I can see Mr H indicated on the mortgage 
application form that he didnt want PPI. Mr H was then sent a mortgage offer which  showed 
he had declined PPI. So at that stage  it was clear the PPI was optional. YBS says Mr H then 
contacted it to enquire about buildings insurance and PPI. Its showed  us a copy of a PPI 
application form Mr H completed  and returned to YBS. And I can see a new mortgage  offer 
was issued that shows Mr H had chosen  to take out PPI.
All this makes me think that Mr H was made aware  the PPI was optional;  he originally 
declined it and was sent a mortgage offer which he may have signed to get the mortgage 
without PPI. So I think Mr H later chose to take the PPI knowing he didnt have to  although 
I can understand why he cant remember this.
YBS recommended  the PPI to Mr H so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr H about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  YBS didnt  tell Mr H, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr H has said - including  what theyve said about  his 
employers sick pay. But this PPI policy wouldve paid a benefit in addition  to Mr Hs sick pay 
Ref: DRN89851992and probably for longer than his employer would pay him full  pay.  Itd also have paid a 
benefit if hed lost his job. Mr H has said he could rely on his partner  or family to help him if 
things went wrong. But Mr H was taking out the mortgage in his sole name  and was solely  
responsible for making the repayments  so these points dont change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr H any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr H the extra he paid each month because  the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr H 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr H can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8985199