K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs P says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
RBS has sent us paperwork completed  at the time, which  Mrs P signed.  I can see on the 
mortgage application form the answer Yes to the question Do you want [the MPPI]?. I 
can also see that Mrs P completed a separate application form and direct debit specific to 
the MPPI  to set it up  which  again she signed. Ive thought  carefully about what Mrs P 
has said about  this and that she was totally unaware of the cover because  she was later 
made redundant  and, as I understand matters,  she didnt claim on the policy.  But I can 
understand why Mrs P may simply have  forgotten she had the cover.  And I just dont think 
theres enough evidence to say she wasnt given a choice when she was sold it. So 
overall I think  its most likely that RBS made  it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the 
MPPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  
this.
RBS didnt  recommend  the MPPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have  to make  sure Mrs P got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information RBS gave  Mrs P about the MPPI  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the MPPI  so it looks like she wanted  this type 
of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover   so it could have 
been useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like the MPPI was affordable.  
So I dont  think  better information  about  the MPPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what shes said about her managing  
when she was made redundant. But I think the MPPI was nevertheless  a sensible 
precaution, and I can understand why, at the time of sale,  she mightve wanted it. So for 
these reasons, and the reasons explained  above,  these  points  dont change  my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs P paid on her MPPI  and whether RBS treated  
her unfairly. 
Ref: DRN86585692RBS has told us that the commission for Mrs Ps MPPI was less than half of what she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how RBS has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ps commission was less than half the cost of the 
MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont 
think RBS treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs P back  any of the 
commission she paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8658569