K820x#14complaint
Mr C, represented by Ms R, complains that Metro Bank Plc filed a Credit  Industry  Fraud 
Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against his name. He says that he had nothing  to do with 
fraudulent activity on his account, and that the marker is preventing  him from getting  another  
bank account.  He wants Metro Bank to remove the CIFAS marker.
background
Mr C attended a branch  of Metro Bank  on 17 November and opened a bank account. He 
was accompanied  by a friend  who hed met through online gaming. Mr C said hed got 
talking to the friend about not having a bank  account, and the friend had offered to meet and 
go with him to open one. Mr C said hed not previously met the friend in person, but hed 
been chatting to him online for about  six months. He described the friend  as someone he 
didnt  know properly .
In branch Mr C was issued with a debit card and security  details  and self-selected  a PIN. He 
also downloaded  the Metro Bank mobile  banking app on to his phone (Device  A). Later  that 
day he withdrew the £10 hed opened the account with from a cash  machine.
The debit card was used to make  a contactless  payment  to a transport provider on 
21 November. Mr C initially said that wasnt him, and that hed lost his card not long after 
opening the account  probably on 20 November. He reported his card lost and was issued 
with a new one on 2 December. Both cards had the same primary account number (PAN  
the long card number).
On 2 December  a payment of almost £500 was received  into Mr Cs account from another 
bank, Ill call D. Within minutes of the payment  being  received £250 was withdrawn from a 
cash machine. The rest of the money was sent to an existing payee using the mobile 
banking app on another mobile phone (Device  B). That payee  had been  added to Mr Cs 
account a few days earlier through the mobile banking app on Device  B.
Metro Bank  have explained that to register a new device for mobile banking someone  
wouldve needed Mr Cs 12-digit customer number, his internet banking  ID and password, 
and a one-time  pass code (an OTP)  sent to Mr Cs registered mobile  phone  number. To add 
the new payee another OTP wouldve been  needed along with several  digits from the PAN 
on Mr Cs card.
The following  day Metro Bank received  notification  from bank D, who said their customer  
hadnt authorised  the payment to Mr Cs account. As a consequence,  Metro Bank gave Mr C 
seven days notice that they would  be closing his account and filed the CIFAS marker.
Below I have set out a timeline of the significant activity  related to Mr Cs account.
Date Time Activity
17/11/2018
12:17Account opened   welcome email sent to Mr C including  12-digit  
customer number needed for both mobile and online banking. Debit 
card issued and PIN self-selected in branch by Mr C.
12:25 Mobile app registered on Device A.
13:26 Fingerprint validation added to Device A.
15:20  19:43 Mobile app accessed on Device A four times  using  both PIN and 
fingerprint validation.
Ref: DRN8847411221/11/2018 Debit card used to make  a contactless payment to a transport 
provider.
21:46 Mobile app accessed on Device A using fingerprint  validation.
27/11/2018
17:37Mobile app accessed on Device A using fingerprint  validation.
17:58 Mobile app registered on Device B.
19:57 Mobile app accessed on Device B using PIN validation.  New payee 
added to account.
29/11/2018
22:01Mobile app registered on Device C.
30/11/2018
15:23Fingerprint validation added to Device C.
02/12/2018
13:51Mr C reported his first debit card lost and was issued a new one.
14:19 Mobile app accessed on Device C using fingerprint validation.
15:53 Mobile app accessed on Device B using PIN validation.
15:58 £493 credited  Mr Cs account.
15:59 Mobile app accessed on Device B using PIN validation.
16:01 £250 withdrawn  from cash machine with debit card and PIN.
16:04 Mobile app accessed on Device B using PIN validation.
16:05 £240 faster  payment made to payee added on 27/11/2018
16:06 Mobile app accessed on Device C using fingerprint validation.
16:10 Mobile app accessed on Device B using PIN validation.
03/12/2018
15:13Bank D contacted  Metro  Bank to inform them that their customer  had 
been the victim of fraud.
14/12/2018 Mr C received a letter  from Metro Bank advising him that his account 
would be closed, and he reported his second  card lost.
What Mr C told us
Mr C has explained that when he was opening his bank  account in branch, he was asked by 
the member of staff to write the numbers and passwords he would like to use as his PIN, 
mobile banking  logins  and online banking logins on a piece of paper  in full view of his friend. 
Hes said he was offered  no privacy. The member of staff then asked Mr C to set up mobile  
banking in front of his friend.  He said he later let the friend use his mobile phone (Device  A) 
for social media.
Mr C said that after hed lost the first debit card, he took the same friend back to branch to 
get a new card on 2 December. Mr C suggested that it was his friend  who had added the 
new payee to the account via the mobile banking app, and also taken his debit card to make 
the cash withdrawal.
Mr C said that when  he arrived home on 2 December, he realised hed lost the second card 
as well. But he was too embarrassed to tell anyone and couldnt block  it because his mother  
had taken his mobile  phone  away. Hes also said he wasnt overly concerned because he 
thought hed lost it within the house.
During conversations with our investigator  Mr Cs representative, Ms R, offered  another  
explanation for how his banking and security details could have been compromised by a 
third party. She said that hed taken the new account welcome pack  and the piece of paper 
with various security information  on it to a fast food restaurant and taken a picture  of his food 
Ref: DRN88474113which he then posted to a social media website. The security information was accidentally 
visible in the picture.  When this was pointed out to Mr C by one of his friends,  he deleted the 
picture. Ms R said that before the picture  was deleted someone could have made a record  of 
the security details.
Mr C initially agreed this was possibly how his banking information  had been compromised. 
More recently, however,  Mr C has said he thinks its likely it was the friend who went with 
him to open  the bank account  who carried  out the fraud. Hes said:
His friend would  have seen his 12-digit customer number on the day he opened  the 
bank account  as it was in clear view for him;
He wrote down his potential PIN for his card and mobile banking app, and a 
password, on a sticky note while he was opening the account;
As he was unaware of the dangers  of fraud, he used the same sequence of four 
digits as the PIN for unlocking his phone, for accessing his mobile banking app and 
for using his card;
He used the same password for accessing his bank account as he used for his 
gaming account;
Hed given his gaming account password to his friend in the past as hed met him 
through online gaming;
His friend had access to his mobile  phone and knew  his PIN;
He allowed his friend to use his mobile  phone on 27 November for social media  and 
listening to music;
He thinks his friend signed into mobile  banking on another phone and set up the new 
payee on 27 November  receiving and deleting  the OTPs from Mr Cs phone before  
giving it back to Mr C;
He recalls telling his friend on 2 December that hed lost his card,  and the friend 
asking to come along when  he collected  a new one;
On the way home on 2 December his friend asked to use his phone  again;
His card was missing when he got home  on 2 December  hes not sure how his 
friend managed  to take it; and
He didnt report his card missing because  he didnt think  anyone  could  do anything 
as he had no money in the account,  and he felt embarrassed.
Mr C has also told us that he only knows the friends  name. He doesnt  know where he lives 
or what school or college he went to at the time. He said he didnt report this friend  to the 
police as he had no information on them, and even found he was blocked  from finding their 
gaming account  again.
What Metro Bank said
Metro Bank  have explained that Mr C would have been asked to select  a PIN in branch on 
the day that he opened his account. But he would not have  been  encouraged to write it 
down. They said the debit card is printed in branch and customers are taken to a PIN entry 
machine to choose their own PIN. Theyve  also said that the 12-digit customer  number  is 
included in the welcome email customers receive once their account is successfully opened, 
not handed to the customer in branch.
Metro Bank  say its unlikely a third party became aware of all the information necessary to 
carry out these transactions without Mr Cs knowledge and involvement.
Ref: DRN88474114Our investigators view and Metro Banks  response
Our investigator upheld  Mr Cs complaint. He said it was possible Mr Cs friend, whod 
accompanied him on the day he opened the account, had seen his PIN and card details. He 
also said it was possible the same friend had set up the new payee.  Overall,  he didnt think  
Metro Bank  had explored the possibility that someone had taken Mr Cs card and security  
details to use them without his knowledge.  He didnt  think Metro  Bank  had enough evidence 
to satisfy the criteria for filing a CIFAS  marker, so he said it should  be withdrawn.
Metro Bank  said they were satisfied by the account activity that theyd met the requirements 
of CIFAS and that they didnt need to make  further  enquires of Mr C before taking the 
decision to file the marker.  They  asked  for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for 
a decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 1 May 2020. I said I wasnt  minded to uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint. I explained:
Metro Bank  applied the CIFAS marker  because bank D said their customer didnt authorise 
the payment made to Mr Cs account. So Ive looked at whether it was fair of Metro  Bank  to 
apply the marker,  based on the evidence and what the rules say about applying such  
markers.
When a business  is a member of CIFAS  it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer  has used their account fraudulently  (a misuse  of facility 
marker). This type of marker will stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult 
for a customer to take out new financial products.
If a business decides  to file a marker it must  have  evidence  and meet  CIFASs standard of 
proof. To meet the standard  of proof the business  must have: reasonable grounds to believe 
that a fraud or financial crime has been committed or attempted; and clear, relevant and 
rigorous evidence such that the business  could confidently report  the conduct of the 
customer to the police. The conduct  of the customer must also meet  the criteria of the type 
of marker  (in this case, the criteria for the misuse of facility marker), and the business must  
usually have rejected,  withdrawn or terminated a financial product on the basis  of fraud.  This 
means that a business shouldnt apply the marker  on the basis  of its suspicions only.
Having reviewed Mr Cs account  of events and the evidence Metro Bank have provided, Im 
currently satisfied that Metro Bank have sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker  to be 
recorded on his file. I say this for the following reasons:
Metro Bank have provided evidence to show the payment to Mr Cs account  on 
2 December was reported by bank  D as fraudulent;
I think its unusual for someone  to open their first bank account in the company of 
someone theyve never  met and only know through online contact;
I find it unlikely the friend who was present  during the account opening process  
observed and remembered Mr Cs account number, sort-code, 12 digit customer 
number, debit card PIN, mobile banking passcode and other  security  details  I think 
its more likely that if a third party was involved here, Mr C gave them that 
information;
Ref: DRN88474115I also find it unlikely the friend  got hold of the first debit card between  17  
20 November (theyd have needed it for the PAN to set up the new payee) without 
Mr Cs knowledge;
Whilst its possible that the friend remembered  enough information to download  the 
mobile banking  app on to a second  device, and had the first debit card in his 
possession, I see no reason why that friend  would have waited 10 days  before 
registering the app on Device  B;
I note that the mobile banking app was registered on Device B within 30 minutes of 
Mr C accessing the app using his fingerprint on Device A;
Mr C didnt access the app on Device A again after the app had been registered  on 
Device B, suggesting he was aware it had been registered  on Device  B;
Mr C did not report his first debit card lost or stolen until 2 December;
It seems  to me an unlikely  coincidence that the fraudulent funds were credited to 
Mr Cs account on the same day he collected his second debit card in branch;
I dont think its likely  Mr C would have taken the same friend, someone who he 
barely knew and hadnt  met face to face before 17 November, to collect his second 
debit card on 2 December unless the intention was to give it to him;
I dont find it plausible  that the friend acquired the second debit card without Mr C 
knowing; and
Mr C didnt report his second  debit card lost until he received notification  of Metro  
Banks decision to close  his account   this suggests  to me that he knew who had it.
Overall, I dont  think its plausible that a third-party fraudster achieved what happened here 
without Mr Cs knowing involvement.
Taking everything into account,  I find that Metro Bank have met the burden of proof required 
by CIFAS to file the marker. So, Im not going  to ask them to remove  it.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr C didnt agree with my provisional findings.  He made the following points:
He took the friend with him to open his first bank account because that person was 
one of his only friends;
The friend wouldnt have needed to remember all the security information, as they 
could easily have  taken a picture  with their mobile phone  of what  was laid out on the 
table;
The friend wouldve  been able to access the welcome email containing his 12-digit 
customer number on Mr Cs phone;
He did not lose his first debit  card shortly after opening the bank account  he lost the 
first card the day before he reported it a lost;
Theres a possibility  he accidentally  made  the contactless payment  to a transport 
provider on 21 November;
He didnt think it was important to say before, but after he opened  the bank account 
he saw the friend nearly every day and the friend had access to Mr Cs phone 
whenever he wanted;
He saw the friend on 27 November and logged on to online banking  to show him 
that the card was used on [public transport]  thats  the reason he accessed the app 
using his fingerprint on Device A, 30 minutes before the mobile banking  app was 
registered on Device B;
Ref: DRN88474116The reason  he didnt access the app on Device A again  after the app had been 
registered on Device B, was that he had exams during  this period and his mother  
would regularly  take his phone ;
He took the friend with him to collect his second  debit  card as he didnt want  to go 
alone;
The friend couldve taken the second debit card from his pocket while  they were on 
the train back home;
He didnt report the second debit  card stolen because his mother took his phone 
that day and didnt give it back to him until a while after his exams had finished; and
He was nave  and used by a person he once called a friend .
I asked Mr C about why hed changed his story  about when hed lost the first debit card. He 
said he thought  it would  help his case if he said hed lost his card shortly  after opening the 
account, but he actually remembered having  it in his wallet after 20 November 2018 until he 
noticed it was missing on 1 December. He added that his friend  had been  persistent  about 
meeting up on 30 November too.
With regard to why he had allowed the friend to use his mobile  phone  freely,  Mr C said he let 
this happen because sometimes the friends  mother took his phone, and also the friends 
phone was slow. He thought if he said no the friend  would leave. He also didnt think  the 
friend would be able to do anything with his banking app. He didnt realise  the friend had 
figured out that his phone  PIN and mobile banking passcode were the same.
Metro Bank  had no comments on my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, although I know  that 
Mr C will be deeply  disappointed by the outcome, I do not uphold his complaint.
For all the reasons set out in my provisional  decision, which  I have summarised above, I still 
think its more likely  than not Mr C was knowingly involved in what happened.
Mr C remains  adamant  that he never gave any banking security  information or his debit  
cards to a third party. He says the friend acquired  all that was necessary to withdraw the 
fraudulent funds without  his knowledge  or involvement. But I dont find Mr Cs version  of 
events credible.
There have been  some significant  inconsistencies in what  Mr C has said.  In response to my 
provisional decision hes said the card payment to a transport provider on 21 November was 
probably him because  he didnt lose that card until the day before he reported it lost. But in 
his first letter to Metro Bank after their decision to close his account,  hed said:
The issue started when I lost my card on the 20th November ... After blocking the card on 
the 23rd November,  I checked my account  balance and discovered my card was used to 
make a transaction to [a transport  provider] with an amount of £5.50. I never made this 
transaction as I am a teen with free transport 
Hes now explained that that wasnt the truth. However, if Mr C did, as he now says, have 
the first debit card in his possession until 1 December, I think that makes it even more  likely 
he was involved in the adding of the new payee  on 27 November.
Ref: DRN88474117Mr Cs version  of events is that at 17.37 on 27 November he logged  on to his account via the 
mobile app to show the friend that the card had been used on public transport. Mr C says the 
friend must have then,  21 minutes later, downloaded  and registered the app on Device  B.
To do this the friend wouldve needed  Mr Cs 12-digit customer  number , his internet banking 
ID and password, and an OTP sent to Mr Cs registered mobile phone number. That would 
have required a lot of activity with Mr Cs phone that I think hed have noticed  the friend 
would have need to search Mr Cs emails  for the welcome email containing the 12-digit 
customer number and receive and delete an OTP.
Later, to add the new payee, the friend  would have  needed to access  the mobile app, obtain 
another OTP from Mr Cs phone and several digits from the PAN on Mr Cs card.  As Mr C 
now says he still had this card on that date, the friend would  have needed to take and 
replace the card without Mr C noticing. I dont think thats likely.
Another inconsistency in Mr Cs story  is that he originally told us his details had been 
compromised when  he posted a picture  of his food to social  media with his banking details in 
the background. It wasnt until later that Ms R submitted a letter explaining  another way that 
the transactions could have taken place.  That letter set out how the friend had been present 
at the opening of the account and could have gained enough information at that time to later 
access the account. It also said the friend  had used  Mr Cs phone  on occasion  for a short  
while.
Mr C has since  said that the friend  had free access to his phone. But I think it would be 
unusual to give a person  you barely know such access, just as I remain  of the view that 
opening your first bank  account in the company  of a virtual stranger is an unusual thing to 
do.
In my provisional decision I said the fact Mr C didnt access the app on Device A again after 
the app had been registered on Device B, suggested he was aware it had been registered 
on Device B. Mr C says thats not the case. Hes explained that he didnt open  the app on his 
phone again  because his mother would regularly take his phone.
But Mr C did have his phone at times  after 27 November. Its unlikely to have been in his 
mothers control on 29 November when the phone  would have received an OTP as part of 
the process for registering  the mobile app on Device C. He also had it on 2 December when 
he went to collect his new card.
If Mr C had been unaware of the existence  of the app on Devices  B and C, I think  hed have 
accessed it on Device A at some  point after 27 November if only to check the security of his 
account when  he realised hed lost the first debit  card. Before 27 November the audit shows  
he accessed the mobile banking app on Device A at least once a day and, on one day, 
14 times. I dont think going  from that level of access on Device  A to nothing can be 
explained by the phone  being taken away by his mother more  often.  I still think  Mr C stopped  
using the app on Device A because he knew about  Device B.
Finally, I remain  of the view that its unlikely  Mr C would have taken the same friend, 
someone who he barely knew and hadnt  met face to face before 17 November, to collect his 
second debit card on 2 December  unless  the intention was to give it to him. I also find it 
unlikely that the friend  acquired  the second  debit  card without  Mr Cs knowledge so quickly  
Ref: DRN88474118after they collected it. And Im not convinced  by Mr Cs reasons for not reporting it lost until 
14 December.
So overall, I think Mr Cs was involved in the fraud here. I think its more likely than not he 
accepted the fraudulent money  into his account and either withdrew and moved that money 
on himself, or he provide  a third party with his bank details so that they could complete the 
transactions. Its of course possible that Mr C was persuaded  to do this by a third party,  
rather than the instigator  of what happened. Ive asked Mr C was targeted  and convinced  by 
others to become  a money mule, but he says not.
Taking everything into account,  I find that Metro Bank have met the burden of proof required 
by CIFAS to file the marker. So, Im not going  to ask them to remove  it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Beth Wilcox
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8847411