K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Northern Bank Limited mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  taken  out in 2001  when  they applied  for a joint 
mortgage during  a meeting.
background
Mr and Mrs B complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld because the policy was probably  shown as optional and, even though the information 
couldve been clearer, it was probably  clear enough  for Mr and Mrs B to make  a decision 
about buying the PPI. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the 
matter to be looked at again. They added the following points:
They were not told the policy was optional;
They were not told to shop around  for a cheaper  policy;
The policy was not of benefit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think the relevant issues  to take into 
account are the same  as those set out in the note on our website about our approach to PPI 
complaints.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. I know this will be a disappointment for 
them so Ill set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs B said they did not know they had PPI. They could not tell me how it was sold or 
if it was an advised  sale. So they could not tell me much about  what happened  in 2001. 
Northern Bank hasnt been able to produce any documents from the time of the sale. 
However, this policy was sold over eighteen  years ago, and Im not surprised the original 
documents arent now available. 
Northern Bank has produced a PPI application form which it said was indicative of the sort of 
application Mr and Mrs B would have seen at the time of the sale.  I could see that it had 
separate Yes  and No options for the consumer to tick if they wanted PPI; there was also 
a separate direct debit mandate which had to be signed and dated. So taking all of that into 
account, I think it probably was clear  they knew they had bought  an optional policy. 
Northern Bank said the sale was advised so I will continue  on that basis as Mr and Mrs B 
could not remember  that detail. For such sales, Northern Bank  had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs Bs needs.  I dont think this policy was unsuitable for them at the 
time of the sale and I base this on the following reasons:
 They were each  eligible for the policy cover. 
 It looked affordable for them and 
 it doesnt  look like either was affected  by the main things not covered by the policy  
(the exclusions).
So I dont  think any of these things made  the policy unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN83174572Mr and Mrs B told us they would have  received  good benefits from their employer if they 
were off work through  accident or sickness - but I think  the PPI cover  couldve paid out in 
addition to and for longer than their sick pay. So I think Mr and Mrs B might  still have  thought 
the PPI gave them a useful benefit.  
Mr and Mrs B said they were not told to shop around  for a cheaper policy; but as this was a 
commercial financial matter, I would not have expected Northern Bank  to direct Mr and Mrs 
B to any of its competitors  for other policies. So I dont think  this is enough to say the policy  
had been mis-sold.
For advised sales, Northern Bank  also had to give Mr and Mrs B enough information which 
was clear, fair and not misleading. I havent seen all the paperwork from this sale,  so I dont 
know how Northern Bank pointed out all of the exclusions - either in the documents  or in the 
meeting. But even if Northern Bank had made all the information clearer, I think  its likely 
they still wouldve  bought the PPI. I say this because neither was affected by the main  
exclusions, so clearer information would have  been  unlikely to put them  off from buying  the 
PPI. 
Taking everything into consideration, Ive decided  not to uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8317457