K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004.     
Mr and Mrs A say Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them 
the PPI. Ill refer to the business as Santander in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered Mr and Mrs A for unemployment  only. Both parties  agree that the PPI 
was taken out during a phone call. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although a call recording is no longer  available  and there are no call notes to give me 
an idea of what was discussed, Ive considered what we know  more  widely  about 
how Santander sold PPI during  telephone calls around the time this policy was taken 
out.
Ive not seen evidence that Santander didnt follow their normal  sales  process  and 
I think that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs A were  made  aware that the PPI 
was optional and they chose to take it out. 
In addition, I've seen  some internal call notes  from Mr and Mrs A in relation to the 
PPI - after it was taken out. For example,  on 21 February  2005  theres  a record  of a 
call about the benefit split being changed. Ive also seen  a copy  of a welcome letter 
sent to Mr and Mrs A which briefly describes the PPI.
On balance, even  though  Mr and Mrs A have said that they didnt knowingly take 
PPI, I still think  its more  likely than not that they were aware that PPI was optional 
and they chose to take it out. Santander has also told us that Mr and Mrs A made a 
number of claims on the policy. Its likely, given the time thats passed, that they dont 
remember the sale clearly  now. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,   
I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.  The  policy 
could have paid out for longer than Mr and Mrs As existing means  lasted. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking  out the cover. 
Ref: DRN81970022Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs A.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs A about that. Because Santander didnt  tell 
Mr and Mrs A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A have  said - including  what theyve said about  not 
needing PPI because of their existing means. As Ive already said, Mr and Mrs A made more 
than one claim on this policy, which suggests they found it useful when needed.  Although    
Mr and Mrs As family may have wanted to help them, they may not have been in a position 
to help when needed as circumstances can change.  
The redundancy entitlements that Mr and Mrs A have told us about may have covered their 
repayments for up to 6 months, but the PPI could have paid out for up to 12 months. 
Mrs A has told us about a pre-existing medical  condition she thought  she had at the time of 
the sale. But this policy only covered  unemployment, not accident and sickness  and it seems  
that the condition affected Mrs A after the sale, not at the time of the sale.  
Our adjudicator has also clarified with Mr and Mrs A that they didnt have  a separate  
standalone policy at the time this PPI policy was taken out and I still think  that the 
recommendation to take PPI was suitable, the policy was right for Mr and Mrs A and these 
points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs A any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs A the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs A 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs A can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey 
National) does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
But Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey  National) does have to pay back to 
Mr and Mrs A any commission  and profit  share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium. 
Ref: DRN81970023Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8197002