K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Warnes Anderton Ltd (the business) didnt  provide  her with the 
investment service she had paid for.
background
Warnes Anderton acted  for Mrs C as from 2007.  In 2009 she asked for a review of her 
investments. As a result  of the advice she received Mrs C moved her investments to the 
Transact platform and changed her existing Cash ISA to a Stocks  and Shares ISA within 
Transact. She also invested a lump sum to use the current years  ISA allowance and a 
further amount  which she invested in a Transact  General Investment Account. 
As part of the service  provided by the business she was entitled to annual  reviews of her 
investments.
The business didnt  uphold the complaint. It explained that Mrs C hadnt responded to the 
letters about  reviews  or the subsequent chasing  letters it sent to her after 2013. It said that 
work had been  done for the reviews each year but they couldnt be concluded because  there  
was no response from her.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. He 
thought the advice in 2009 was suitable  given Mrs Cs objectives and risk appetite. He 
thought the business  had provided an ongoing service despite  not having  carried  out annual 
reviews for every year.  He referred  to the review letters  and reminders sent to Mrs C which  
she hadnt responded to. The investigator didnt think  the business had done anything  wrong 
bringing the relationship to an end in 2017 when there was a further failure to respond to a 
review letter.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator. She said she wasnt personally  contacted  by the 
adviser with current information about up and coming investments that could benefit her and 
the adviser didnt  make  any welfare call to check all was well. 
Mrs C also said that the adviser had said that as she had inherited her parents house  and 
funds that it didnt really  matter what happened and she lost faith in him. And he was 
dismissive when questioned about  her finances.  She didnt think  he had acted in a 
professional way.
The investigator responded to the points  made  by Mrs C. He said there was no obligation on 
the adviser to check her welfare. He said the business did prepare initial review reports and 
valuations for the annual  reviews and wrote to her each year giving her the opportunity to 
take part in the review.  He didnt think it needed  to do more  than it had done  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although it doesnt  appear Mrs C is complaining  about the advice she was given in 2009  as 
this has been  referred  to already I have  considered  what  happened  and whether  the 
business did anything  wrong.
Ref: DRN84250702The suitability report completed by the adviser at the time shows  that Mrs C wanted a review 
of her current investments  and to invest a lump  sum.  The adviser recommended that she 
move her existing investments to the Transact  platform. He referred  to the benefits  of this as; 
being able to see all investments in one place; access to Exchange Traded Funds;  and 
reduction of management costs. 
The adviser also advised Mrs C to transfer her existing Cash  ISAs to a new Stocks and 
Shares ISA with Transact and that Mrs Cs ISA allowance  for the current  tax year be used 
for part of her lump  sum investment with the balance invested in a Transact  General 
Investment Account. 
I have seen no evidence  that makes me think that the advisers recommendations in 2009 
were unsuitable.
I have considered what Mrs C has said about the business not making  any changes to her 
investments which  means she has lost out on investment opportunities. What the business 
agreed to do was provide an annual review of Mrs Cs investments. This allowed it to check 
that there  had been no change to her risk appetite or objectives and that her investments 
remained suitable for her.
It appears that Mrs C was taking part in some reviews. I have seen a financial report  dated 
May 2012 when  Mrs Cs investments were reviewed.  The report  states:
We discussed attitude to risk and (Mrs C) confirmed  that she does not wish to make any 
changes to her portfolio  at this point as she is happy that her risk tolerances have not 
changed and is also happy with the performance of her portfolio  to date. 
Based on this Im satisfied  the adviser did discuss Mrs Cs portfolio with her and that she 
didnt want to make any changes to it. There is also no evidence her risk appetite or 
objectives had changed. The review meeting notes I have seen for 2013 also stated  she 
didnt want to make any changes. So up to this point I think  it is more  likely, than not, that 
Mrs Cs portfolio was invested  as she wanted  and in accordance  with her risk appetite and 
objectives.
From what  I have  seen, between 2014 and the end of the relationship in 2017  the business  
carried out the initial review work each year, including providing up to date valuations, but 
wasnt able to complete  its review  because Mrs C didnt provide it with the information  it 
needed - such as up to date information  about her risk appetite. In the circumstances I dont 
think that the business was in a position  to provide her with further advice  on her portfolio 
given it didnt know whether her attitude to risk or objectives had changed. 
In the circumstances Im not satisfied the business  did anything wrong because it didnt 
make any changes to her portfolio. She was happy  with the portfolio  as of 2013  and there 
was no basis for it doing anything  different after this given it didnt have the information it 
needed from her to decide  if any changes should be made. 
The investments Mrs C remained  in were in accordance with the information the business 
had about her risk appetite and objectives. So the fact that other investments may have 
performed better doesnt necessarily mean the business did anything  wrong  because  it didnt 
change her investments.  It is also worth  noting that Mrs Cs portfolio hasnt performed badly.
Ref: DRN84250703Im satisfied that the business provided  the service  Mrs C paid for and the fact that it didnt 
complete the annual  reviews from 2014 onwards wasnt because  of anything  it did wrong.
I note what Mrs C has said about  statements the adviser made about  where  her money 
came from but nothing I have seen  persuades  me that the adviser did anything wrong or 
acted unprofessionally in any way as she has suggested. I acknowledge a different business 
may have  provided  welfare calls but that doesnt mean the business  did anything  wrong  
because it didnt make  such calls. I dont think this was part of the service  that she had paid 
for.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8425070