K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Abbey) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Miss H took out a mortgage with Santander in 2008  and bought  the PPI at the same  time.
Among other  things, Miss H says she had a medical condition  when  she bought the cover.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Hs complaint upheld  it. He said the terms of the policy 
meant Miss H wouldnt be covered for accident  and sickness claims if they resulted from an 
existing medical condition. Because of her medical condition, he didnt think  the policy  suited        
Miss Hs needs. He said Santander shouldnt  have recommended  the policy to her without 
pointing this out. And, if it had, he didnt think Miss H wouldve gone ahead  with it.
Santander disagrees with our adjudicators  view.  It says any medical  condition  wouldve 
been discussed with Miss H at the time and it wouldve explained the exclusion  for medical  
conditions to her. It also says Miss H couldve claimed for the condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy Miss H bought excluded cover for existing medical conditions. The policy 
summary Ive got says broadly Miss H wouldnt be covered for any medical condition she 
knew about when  the cover  started  or shed seen a doctor  about  in the 12 months before 
taking out the policy  and which persisted or returned during the first 12 months of the policy.
The full policy document includes wording similar  to the policy  summary. But it also says 
Miss H wouldnt  be covered for any medical condition Miss H knew  about, or should 
reasonably have known about,  at the start date or which shed seen a doctor  about  in the 
12 months immediately  before the start date.
Santander advised Miss H to buy the PPI. So it had a duty to make sure it was right for her 
in her circumstances.  Miss H says she had a medical condition  that had been  diagnosed 
almost 20 years before she bought the cover. Weve asked her recently what  impact  the 
condition had on her life. She says she saw a doctor regularly  to get medication for it. She 
says the condition reduced her physical activity. And she says shed had time off work 
before she bought the cover because  of it, although she hasnt said when or how much.
From what  Miss H says I think its likely her medical condition  was something that did have 
an impact on her daily life. Santander  says it wouldve discussed Miss H medical condition 
with her and explained the exclusion.  But it has given me no evidence to support what  it 
says. And I think if Santander  had advised  Miss H  as it shouldve done   that it was 
unlikely shed be able to claim for the condition if she needed to take extended time off work 
for it, shes unlikely to have gone ahead with it.
Ref: DRN85046832So I think Miss H has lost out because of what  Santander did wrong and it should put things 
right.
putting things right
Santander should put Miss H in the position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Miss H the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Miss H made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Santander can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Hs complaint  and direct  Santander  UK Plc to put 
things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8504683