K820x#14complaint
A, a limited  company, complains that Barclays Bank  PLC (trading as Barclaycard) has 
withheld and returned card payments it took.
background
A entered  into a merchant services  agreement with Barclaycard in September 2018.  In 
October 2018 A processed two payments  from the same cardholder  one for £10,000  and 
the other for £200,000. A did not follow the correct authorisation process for either.  
Barclaycard withheld  the money and has since been asked to return  it under a chargeback. 
It had already told A that it was terminating the agreement.
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-He had looked at the terms  of the agreement A had with Barclaycard. This stated 
under part 3.2 that A had to get authorisation  for any card payments above  its floor 
limit. A had not done  this  it said it had taken the codes directly from the cardholder.
-This meant  A had breached the terms of the agreement. Term 12.2 stated that 
Barclaycard could keep any amounts due to A if it reasonably  believed  it could 
become liable to repay them. This was not subject to any time limit.
-These payments  were made  subject  to chargeback on 12 November 2018.
-Barclaycard was told that the total amount  of payment was over the limit for the card 
scheme. He was satisfied  with the evidence it presented  about  this. And he said that 
had A used the correct process they would never have been authorised in the first 
place.
-A had also said it did not receive money for further payments after this. But 
Barclaycard had decided to terminate  the agreement and had not allowed any further 
transactions to go through. It said that any cardholders involved in attempted  
payments would not have been charged.
-Barclaycard had issued A an invoice for the costs of processing the large payments. 
These charges  had been incurred in line with its agreement  and were  fairly payable.
A did not agree and wanted  the complaint to be reviewed.  It said that no chargeback request 
had been made. And there was nothing to show that it could not have the money even  if the 
payments were over the limit. A does not think that the fees of nearly £6,000 can be called  
fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A was fairly bound by the terms  and conditions of its agreement with Barclaycard. These  
payments were forced through according to Barclaycard. In any event A did not follow the 
correct procedure and obtain authorisation codes from Barclaycard.
A significant amount of money  was involved. And as the payments had not been correctly 
authorised there was an increased risk of chargeback. The terms and conditions stated that 
a particular reason  for this could be if a payment or the way it was carried out had broken the 
terms of the agreement (part 4.2b). The investigator  has already referred to the terms under 
Section 12 which  allow  Barclaycard  to retain  payments if it has reasonable grounds  to think  
A would become liable  to pay them back.
Ref: DRN86358892I know that A says that the cardholder did not request a chargeback. But Im clear  that the 
money was charged  back because it was above the limit for the card scheme  and was 
requested back.
There is no evidence of other payments being processed by Barclaycard  after this for A. And 
thats consistent with Barclaycard deciding to terminate the agreement.
These payments  that were returned were large value ones. Barclaycard had a limited  
business relationship with A. And I note that on its application form A said it expected  
average payments  to be up to £1,500. These  payments  may have gone through the card 
terminal but they were  not processed  correctly.  Barclaycard had concerns that they would be 
required to return the money. So it held the money and did then return  it as requested. I 
dont have any grounds to find that it did not act reasonably. And it was entitled  to charge for 
the payments  being processed   those charges arising irrespective of whether the amounts  
were later charged back.
For these reasons I wont be asking Barclaycard to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8635889