K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC wouldnt accept proof of their new 
address so they could open  a bank account. 
Background
Mr and Mrs H applied to open a new current account with Tesco.  In order to proceed,  Tesco 
asked Mr and Mrs H to provide some proof of their identification and address and gave them  
a list of acceptable documents. Mr and Mrs H paid £21 to certify their passports and got 
bank statements confirming their new address  printed. 
Tesco refused  to accept  the printed bank statements as they didnt match  its list of 
documents customers can use for verification  purposes.  Mr H has a credit  card with Tesco 
and asked if it could  use that. But Tesco told Mr and Mrs H that it was a separate part of the 
business and it couldnt use the credit card to verify  their address. Mr and Mrs H have told us 
they tried various  other options  but Tesco wasnt willing to budge. Ultimately, the application 
didnt proceed  and they made alternative  arrangements. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  and Tesco responded on 26 January 2019.  Tescos response was 
addressed to Mrs H and said it had failed to trace a credit card in her name. Tesco didnt 
uphold the complaint so Mr and Mrs H referred  it to our service. The complaint was passed  
to an investigator but he thought Tesco had dealt with it fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators  view so their complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Hs frustration as they just wanted to open a new current 
account and felt the information they could provide should  have  been  sufficient to do that. As 
Mr and Mrs H had recently  moved  and pay lots of their bills online the options available were 
limited. Theyve also told us that other  businesses were willing  to proceed with similar 
information to that offered to Tesco. But, I have  to balance  that against  Tescos obligation to 
complete certain  checks when opening a new account. 
Tesco says it couldnt accept the printed bank statements. Whilst I understand 
Mr and Mrs Hs feelings, Tesco is entitled to decide how to meet  its obligation to identify and 
verify its customers. Our service cant tell Tesco to change  how it operates.  And I cant  say 
Tesco was wrong  because it wasnt willing to accept documents that other  businesses  were 
willing to proceed  with. Thats a commercial decision Tesco  is free to make. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Hs options  were limited as they had recently moved. 
Mr and Mrs H asked Tesco to accept a letter from the council or confirmation of their new 
address from a solicitor.  But, as Ive said above, Tesco  is free to decide  what documents  its 
willing to accept when  verifying customers. As the statements didnt meet Tescos criteria, 
Im satisfied the decision to reject  them was reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs H say they were told that Tesco couldnt  use a credit card account to verify their 
address as the different  parts of the business arent  linked and dont share  information.  But 
Ref: DRN82052032while the complaint  was being investigated, Tesco searched for a credit card in Mrs Hs 
name and didnt find one. Mr and Mrs H have asked why this step wasnt  taken when they 
applied as its clear  the businesses  are linked. Theyve also queried whether the case  
handler was aware  it was a joint application.  
Before I deal with that point,  Id like to explain that credit cards are generally  held in one 
name only with additional  card holders being added as a third party to the account. Even 
where there  is more  than one card holder the account remains in one persons name. In this 
case, Mrs H was an additional card holder on Mr Hs credit card account.  That means Mr H 
was a credit  card customer but Mrs H wasnt. 
Tesco says that it couldnt use Mr Hs credit card to complete the verification process and 
open the new account because it was only in his name. Im satisfied thats correct and that 
Tesco couldnt verify both Mr and Mrs Hs address using his credit  card account.
Mr and Mrs H say they were incorrectly told that the credit card department  and bank 
account teams arent linked so information couldnt  be shared. I dont know  whether Tesco 
routinely shares  information between different parts of the business. But I think Tesco was 
right to say it couldnt use Mr Hs credit card to complete the address verification process for 
the joint account application  for the reasons  Ive been given above. So, even if Mr and Mrs H 
had been told Tesco could share  information between  the different parts I dont think it would 
have impacted the outcome. Tesco wasnt able to verify both parties to the application which  
meant it couldnt proceed. 
Mr and Mrs H have asked that Tesco refund  the £21 they paid to have their passports 
certified. But I havent found anything to show Tesco has made a mistake  or treated 
Mr and Mrs H unfairly.  After Mr and Mrs H applied, Tesco requested specific documents  to 
verify their address and identity. As Mr and Mrs H werent able to provide that, the 
application didnt  proceed. As I havent  found anything to show  Tesco made  a mistake and 
Im satisfied its dealt with this complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further  action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8205203