K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains a car Clydesdale Financial Services Limited T/A: Barclays Partner Finance 
(BPF) supplied to him under a conditional  sale agreement  wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background
In June 2017 BPF supplied a car to Mr N under a conditional sale agreement. It was about  
three years old, had covered about 42,000 miles and cost about £26,000.
After about three months (and about 4,500 miles) Mr N informed the dealership there was a 
problem. The dealership found  there was a problem  with the turbo  but wouldnt repair it at no 
cost to Mr N. Mr N asked  BPF to pay for the repairs. 
BPF considered the matter and concluded  the turbo had been damaged by a foreign  object.  
So it didnt think it needed to pay for the repairs. Mr N didnt think  this was fair so he 
complained to our service. He was also unhappy  a pipe had been left unattached  following 
the repairs he had paid for. 
An investigator looked into the matter.  He concluded, in summary, that the problem with the 
turbo had been  caused by a foreign object. So he didnt think BPF should  have to pay for the 
repairs. 
Mr N didnt agree. In his view a foreign object shouldnt have been able to enter  and damage 
the turbo,  meaning  there  must have been  something wrong with the car when it was 
supplied to him. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I issued a 
provisional decision setting out why I didnt  intend  to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) implies  a term into the conditional sale 
agreement that the car must be of satisfactory quality. As the supplier  and finance  
provider, BPF is responsible for the quality of the car its provided under the 
agreement. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable  person would expect, taking 
into account all of the relevant circumstances, such as the age, mileage and cash  
price of the car.  
Theres no dispute that there was a problem with the car. The issue  is whether it was 
caused by something  present or developing at the time of sale,  and whether this 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality when  it was supplied. 
A turbo engineer inspected the car. He concluded the turbo  had suffered from foreign 
object damage.  Mr N has said he spoke to other engineers whove said a stone or 
debris shouldnt  have been  able to enter the turbo, meaning there must have been 
something wrong with the car  such as damaged connecting hoses allowing 
particles to enter the intake, or a badly maintained air filter. He also questioned what 
the foreign object was.
Ref: DRN85516282The investigator asked  the inspection engineer for further comment. He said the 
turbo had been  damaged by a foreign  object,  but couldnt say what  the foreign object 
was. He said the underlying reason for the damage might have been one of many 
(including the ones Mr N had referred to).  
I accept that Mr N has spoken to other engineers. But only one engineer  has 
inspected the car and he thinks a foreign object caused the damage. I find the 
engineers report  persuasive. So I think this is most likely the case. 
The engineer has sent us a factsheet  which sets out the usual causes of foreign 
object damage.  These are:
-debris from a previous  turbo  failure
-broken engine components (e.g. valves or fragments of damaged  piston, 
injector tips bolts, nuts, washers,  rags or other items) left in the intake pipe 
during servicing
-small particles entering through damaged hoses
-particles in the exhaust gas e.g. coke from poor combustion
-if the air filter is damaged (or faulty),  of a low quality or missing,  objects  will be 
sucked into the air intake
The engineer wasnt able to say one of these in particular was the cause of the 
damage. So Ive considered whats most likely  based on the information  available  to 
me. 
Im not aware of a previous turbo  failure  on this car. If items had been left during a 
service I think  these  would have caused a problem quite quickly.  The most recent 
service was carried out in October 2016,  meaning  about a year had passed  (and 
about 12,000 miles  covered)  by the time the problem occurred. As far as I know  no 
other work had been carried out on the car between this service and when the car 
was supplied to Mr N. So I think the cause being  items left following a service/repair 
is unlikely. The inspection engineer didnt say there  were any damaged hoses and I 
havent seen anything to suggest there  was poor combustion.  
Having ruled out the above,  and while  being mindful there  could be other causes  of 
foreign object damage, I think its most likely  the foreign object entered  through the 
air filter. If the air filter fitted to the car was missing  or faulty I think  this would have 
caused problems  pretty quickly, and as Ive said, the last service  on the car was 
about a year (and about 12,000 miles) before the problem occurred. So I dont think  
the air filter was missing.  And as all services where completed by an authorised 
manufacturers dealer,  I think its unlikely  a low quality air filter was used. 
Bearing the above in mind I think the most  likely explanation for the foreign object 
entering the turbo was a damaged air filter.  An air filter is a serviceable part and more  
prone to lose its effectiveness  through usual wear and tear. An air filter damaged  by 
fair wear and tear isnt a fault. 
During the October 2016 service the diesel fuel filter and the dust and pollen filter 
were replaced. There air filter wasnt replaced. This makes me think  a replacement 
air filter wasnt necessary when the service took place.  The car then covered about  
12,000 miles (about  4,500 of which while in Mr Ns possession) before a problem 
arose. 
Ref: DRN85516283Mr N acquired  a used car and even though it was serviced at fairly regular intervals 
there are some inherent risks that there  will be some prior wear and tear that 
degrades the performance and effectiveness of certain items such as filters. 
I think a reasonable  person would expect  a three  year old used car with about 42,000 
miles on the odometer to have some fair wear and tear. Overall, Im not persuaded 
BPF supplied Mr N with car which had a fault which was present or developing at the 
time of sale.  This means I dont think BPF should have to pay for the repair to the 
turbo. 
I understand Mr N is unhappy  with the repairs he paid for, specifically  that a DPF 
pipe was not attached.  But as this was post-repair, and I dont think  BPF needed to 
pay for the repairs, I dont  think  this isnt something  I can fairly say it should  take 
responsibility for. 
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
Mr N didnt respond to my provisional decision.  BPF responded to say it didnt have any 
further information it wanted  to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and in the absence  of 
disagreement from Mr N or BPF,  I see no reason to change  my mind.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
James Langford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8551628