K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant)  handled  her mobile 
phone insurance  claim  poorly.
background
On 3 January  2019, Mrs G made  a claim for a damaged mobile phone under her insurance  
policy, which is underwritten by Assurant.  Assurant chose to replace the phone with a newer 
model as thats  all it had in stock at that time.  
On 10 January 2019, Assurant told Mrs G itd dispatched her replacement phone. But when 
she hadnt received  it a few days later, she called to query this. It discovered  thered been an 
error with the previous dispatch.  So it re-sent the phone and offered Mrs G £25 
compensation. Mrs G accepted this.
On receipt of the phone  on 15 January 2019, Mrs G found it wasnt  the newer model  that 
had been promised to her  but a like for like model  of the one shed damaged. And it was 
also locked to a United States (US) network.  Mrs G raised this with Assurant  and it 
apologised and said it would  send another replacement.
Mrs G arranged for the phone to be delivered  to her husbands work, but Assurant had an 
incorrect address for this location. This resulted in a failed delivery attempt and further delay.  
Mrs G raised this and Assurant apologised, updated  the address and sent the phone again. 
Mrs G then received the correct phone on 21 January 2019. Mrs G was unhappy with how 
Assurant had handled her claim overall,  so she made a further  complaint.
Assurant apologised  for the errors  it made. Alongside the delays, itd failed to pay Mrs G the 
previous compensation of £25 that had been promised. So in recognition of its failures, it 
offered a further  £75 compensation to Mrs G for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs G wasnt  happy with Assurants response, so she brought  her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint, but he thought what  Assurant had offered to put 
things right was fair, and so he didnt ask it to do anything else.  Mrs G disagreed. She says 
she was effectively without a mobile phone for more  than two weeks because  of Assurants 
errors, and that she had to make several  calls to resolve the problem.  So she wants  £250 
compensation because of this. The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN84196592my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue in this complaint seems  to be the period of time Mrs G was without a phone, 
and the impact of the delays Assurant caused. The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs policy  
dont include  a set timescale in which Assurant  will have to replace or repair an item after a 
claim is accepted. But it should handle claims promptly  once settlement terms are agreed. 
And it did tell our service  that on receipt of the phone, it aims to replace  or repair  it in three  
working days, and then to dispatch and deliver  it within a further three working days.
Mrs G says Assurant  told her it received  her phone on Saturday 5 January 2019. Assurant 
told us it received the phone later, but has given conflicting dates about when this was. 
Mrs G has asked us to obtain call recordings to confirm the date she was told. But given the 
uncertainty on Assurants  part regarding the date of receipt, Ive placed more  weight  on the 
date Mrs G has given us anyway. In any case, its not in dispute that Assurants errors led to 
Mrs G being without a phone for longer  than either  party anticipated. So I dont think call 
recordings are necessary in this case.
While I understand the inconvenience Mrs G experienced because of the delay, I also have 
to consider the fact that Mrs G had damaged her mobile phone, and therefore had to send it 
to Assurant as part of her claim. This meant  that being without her phone  for some time was 
inevitable. So she was always  going  to incur a degree of unavoidable  inconvenience 
because of this.
Overall it took 12 working days from when  Mrs G first raised her claim to when she had a 
replacement phone. Ive already said that Assurant  doesnt seem to be bound  by a set 
timescale for claims  handling in its terms and conditions. But if I take into account the 
timeframes it aims for, and the approximate  date it received Mrs Gs phone, its seems she 
shouldve received her replacement  around14  January 2019.  But in fact, she received it 
about a week  later. 
Im satisfied this delay is as a result of avoidable errors on Assurants part. But its 
responsible for around a week of delays,  rather than the two weeks Mrs G has alleged.  Im 
aware Mrs G had the added inconvenience  of having to make several calls to Assurant, and 
experienced a loss of expectation after the failed delivery attempts. Assurant has made an 
offer to pay £100  compensation  to Mrs G, but she doesnt think this is enough.
Based on what Ive seen  in this case, I think the amount already offered recognises  the 
inconvenience of Mrs G having to spend time making calls to Assurant.  And also the 
additional time she was without  her mobile phone, beyond its usual timescales.  Its broadly  
in line with what Id have asked Assurant to pay Mrs G if it hadnt  offered to do so already. It 
follows that I conclude  that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So I 
wont be asking Assurant  to pay any more than this.
Ref: DRN84196593my final decision
My final decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited  should  pay Mrs G £100 if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8419659