K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Elite Insurance Company  Limited took too long to review a claim on his 
alloy wheel and cosmetic  repair  insurance  policies.
For ease any reference to Elite includes its agents.  
 
background
Mr A contacted Elite to claim on his alloy wheel and cosmetic repair  insurance policies. Elite 
booked an appointment to come and inspect and, if possible,  repair Mr As car in June 2018.  
Mr A took the day off work  to wait in for the appointment  but no one arrived. He contacted 
Elite to complain and was told they were unable to pay any claims at that time. Mr A wasnt 
satisfied with Elites response so he brought his complaint to us. 
Elite said that because of a reinsurance arrangement affecting their assets, a restricted  
payments protocol had been  introduced. Because of this claims were unable  to be paid. In 
October 2018 Elite said the payment restriction had been lifted  and they were  now able to 
pay claims. As this matter had been going on for some time Mr A explained the damage was 
now worse than it was and there was also additional  damage  to the other  three wheels. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr As complaint and recommended it was upheld. He found that 
Mr A hadnt  been  told his appointment was going to be cancelled or given any specific  and 
regular updates about what  was happening. Because  of this our investigator  recommended  
Elite pay Mr A £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused by the lack of 
communication during the claim.
 
Elite responded and disagreed, they said because of the payment protocol they were  unable 
to issue refunds sooner and didnt agree to the £100  compensation. They also said Mr A had 
been kept updated by their representative,  but couldnt provide the details of the updates.
As Elite disagreed the complaint has come to me. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As said the remaining  three  alloy wheels also need repairing now.  Hes also said Elite 
have assessed  his car and turned down the claim for the first alloy wheel.  Because  these are 
new issues I havent considered them here. 
Elite disagreed with the £100  distress  and inconvenience recommended.  They said as the 
payment issue was across all polices and was outside of Elites  control,  there wasnt 
anything else they could do. In regards to the time taken to pay the claim Elites  website 
explains this was because  of an appointment of a liquidator to a third party insurer, who 
reinsures most of Elites  assets. Im therefore  satisfied the delay was outside  of Elites 
control, but I think they could have done  more to keep Mr A updated during this time.  
Ref: DRN88982582I say this because  Mr A had an appointment booked  and waited  in for it, only for it to be 
cancelled without any notice. Elite said it would have told Mr A about the cancellation  and 
kept him updated,  but theyre unable to show confirmation of this. So its not clear what 
information was given to Mr A during  his claim or about the cancellation. Im therefore 
inclined to agree with Mr A that he wasnt kept updated or notified about  the cancellation.  
Around four months after the original  claim date Mr A was provided with an update  which 
explained claims were starting to be paid. I can see the last updates  to Mr A were  able to 
provide more information, but given the amount of time the payment  issue had been going 
on for Im satisfied Elite could have done more  to keep Mr A updated earlier. Because  of this 
Elite should  pay Mr A £100 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience he suffered by 
not being kept updated and notified  about the cancelled appointment.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint and require Elite Insurance 
Company limited to pay Mr A £100  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
Elite Insurance Company  Limited should do this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr As 
accepted my final decision. If it pays the compensation later than this they should add 
interest to the compensation at 8% simple per year from the date of my decision until the 
date they make payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Elite Insurance Company Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr A a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8898258