K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  about the service  provided  by Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage) when 
managing a finance agreement, she had taken  out with them for a car.
background
Ms S took receipt of a used car in May 2017. She financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage.
In May 2019  Advantage were advised  by the DVLA that the car was now registered to 
another person. They called Ms S to discuss the matter but during the call Ms S complains 
that they were  rude, nasty and abusive  and that they accused her of fraud.  She also 
suggests they subsequently shared her details with a third party.
She complained on the phone to Advantage and they provided their final response in a letter 
at the end of May. They said they now believed they had settled the complaint with her on an 
informal basis and that they were  closing the complaint.
Ms S was disappointed with their response. She said the complaint wasnt  resolved and she 
therefore referred it to this service and our investigator considered it. He listened  to the call 
Ms S had with the business.  He understood that the call handler had been  direct,  but he 
didnt think shed been rude,  nasty or abrupt.  He noted that the call handler  confirmed the 
car was in new ownership and explained  that this was in breach of Ms Ss agreement with 
them and shed  broken the law by selling a car that wasnt  hers. He didnt think this was 
accusing Ms S of fraud as he thought  it was a statement of fact. 
However, he did think Advantage hadnt  responded to Ms Ss complaint properly. He didnt 
think thered been  any investigation of her complaint and he thought Advantage should 
compensate her for the inconvenience this had caused her. In the circumstances, he thought  
they should pay her £50.
Ms S disagreed with the investigator. She explained  that shed had previous conversations 
with Advantage  and had explained she was selling  the car. She said they should have 
informed her that this was not possible and that, if they had, the ensuing  confusion and 
distress could have been  avoided. She thought the £50 compensation was insulting and she 
therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Ms S so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN86202112board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms S acquired her car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
This service cant consider every complaint thats  referred to us. The relevant rules  are in the 
Dispute Resolution: Complaints chapter  of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, 
usually known as the DISP rules.  Whilst complaint  handling and customer service arent 
issues wed usually consider, as they are not regulated activities, I am satisfied that in this 
case they were carried out in relation  to the regulated activity (the hire purchase agreement).  
So, I think its fair to consider Ms Ss complaint  points.
selling of the car
The terms of Ms Ss contract  explain:
We are the owner of the goods and you are hiring  them from us. You will become the owner  
of the goods when youve  made all payments under this agreement including  the option to 
purchase fee.
As Ms S hadnt made all payments she was not entitled to sell the car.
Ms S didnt understand  this. She has explained that she has sold other cars under similar 
agreements without any problem. But I think  it was clearly set out in the finance agreement 
that she wasnt the owner of the car.
I dont think theres evidence here that Ms S told the business she was selling the car. 
Advantages call notes dont suggest that happened and are quite comprehensive.
So, I dont think they could have given Ms S advice  if they didnt know  what her intentions  
were, and I think they were right to tell Ms S she couldnt legally sell the car.
the call handlers  approach  to Ms S 
Ive listened to the call Ms S had and I whilst  I think the call handler was a little direct I dont 
think she was abrupt, rude or nasty. I note that the call handler explained that Ms S was 
breaking the law by selling the car. I dont  think she was accusing Ms S of fraud, but simply 
explaining the problem, as the car was not Ms Ss to sell and the terms of her contract  
explained that the business retained ownership.
Advantages resolution of the complaint
I cant see that Advantage provided a resolution  to the complaint Ms S raised  with them  on 
20 May. The matter doesnt seem  to have been  dealt  with informally  as their letter of 21 May 
suggested. So, Id agree with the investigator that they should compensate  Ms S for that and 
in the circumstances I would agree that £50 is reasonable.
Ref: DRN86202113GDPR
Ms S says Advantage  were wrong  to share  details of her balance with a third party. 
Its not our role to decide if a business  has breached  data protection laws. This is for the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) to decide.  We can consider whether its fair to tell a 
business to pay compensation or take other action to recognise the impact on the consumer.  
But here I dont  think  I have evidence of any significant impact on Ms S and Im not asking 
Advantage to take any action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell 
Advantage Finance Ltd to pay Ms S £50 to compensate  her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused when not thoroughly  investigating her complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8620211