K820x#14complaint
Mr S has a motor insurance  policy with Aviva Insurance Limited. It includes breakdown  and 
recovery cover in some circumstances. He also bought a separate roadside assistance and 
recovery policy through Aviva. Mr S says Aviva provided poor service  when his car broke 
down and that it later refused to cover  a claim he made for the damage to it.
background
Mr S says he called  Aviva  on 22 July 2018  after he had to stop driving  due to a burning 
smell. He found  a fire under the bonnet.  A recovery agent arrived,  but Mr S says the agent 
said he couldnt move  the car unless Mr S paid an extra charge. The agent said that was 
because a breakdown due to fire wasnt covered. Mr S paid £50 for a taxi home. He says 
Aviva called him later the same evening  and apologised for not arranging transport home for 
him. Another recovery agent took his car to a storage yard that evening.   
Mr S says he called  Aviva  the next day and it arranged for the car to be inspected. An 
independent engineer said the fire was caused  by a mechanical fault, so it wasnt  covered by 
the policy. Mr S said his local garage  didnt say there was any mechanical damage.  In Mr Ss 
view, the breakdown was caused  by a fire and therefore the damage was covered. As the 
damage was too great to be repaired, Mr S had to sell the car for scrap.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint. He thought  it was reasonable for 
Aviva to decline the claim. He said it had relied on the engineers view about a mechanical 
fault causing the fire. He said recovery and alternative transport were  only covered if an 
insured event had occurred.  Mr S said Aviva had agreed to cover some  fire damage  a 
melted pipe - but that cost less than the policy  excess.  He said Aviva  had arranged for the 
recovery of his car on the day of the fire, but it wouldnt refund the taxi fare hed paid.
Aviva said it had no record of any call from Mr S prior to 26 July 2018, which is when it 
arranged to collect his car from storage. It said it might have paid for a taxi for him had he 
called it on the day of the fire. But as Aviva  wasnt able to cover the claim, it said it wouldnt 
now consider refunding  Mr S for the taxi fare. The investigator thought  Avivas  explanation 
was reasonable.  Mr S said his garage  had listed the burnt components and none of them 
was from inside the engine, so the fire started  outside it. And he said there was no exclusion 
for mechanical breakdown in the separate roadside assistance and recovery policy. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  I issued a 
provisional decision as follows: 
Avivas motor insurance policy says that if a car is damaged by fire it will arrange for it to be 
recovered and taken to a repairer and that it will provide transport for the cars driver and 
passengers. So I can see why Mr S thought he could rely on that after the breakdown. But 
the motor policy excludes help with breakdown  and recovery  as well as cover  for repairs - 
if mechanical, electrical or electronic failures cause the problem.  
On the day of the incident, no-one knew what had caused the fire. An independent engineer  
later found  that it started at a hose on the camshaft  cover and that it was a mechanical fault. 
Mr S disagrees. But I think it was reasonable for Aviva to rely on the opinion of the 
independent engineer. I dont think Mr S has been able to show  that Aviva did anything 
wrong in terms of not dealing with the damage to the car.
Ref: DRN84342152I dont think the circumstances surrounding the attendance of recovery agents on the day of 
the breakdown  are clear. Thats despite our having  sought clarification from Aviva more than 
once. Mr S says he reported the fire when he called Aviva for help.  He says the agent who 
attended the scene said the breakdown  wasnt covered because it was caused by fire. But 
that isnt what the agent recorded on his report of the incident.  He said he left as he had to 
attend an accident. He said Mr S was going  to call Aviva for recovery which suggests that 
he thought Mr S hadnt yet done so. In fact, Mr S assumed he wasnt going to get any further  
help. In his view, Aviva had refused  to assist him. So he paid £50 for a taxi home. 
Aviva says it had no contact at all from Mr S until four days after the incident  and it has 
shown us that there are no calls from him recorded on its system prior to that date. So I cant 
see how the recovery agents could have been  provided by Aviva  on the day of the incident.  
Mr S insists  he got a call from Aviva on the evening of that day. He says the caller  
apologised for not having  his car collected earlier and said that would now be done. 
Mr S has shown  us a record of the two calls he got from the same number that day. The 
number connects  to an automated line that says Your  breakdown  service will be in touch. 
The timing  of one call corresponds with a time on the record  made by the first recovery 
agent. The other call was made around an hour later. And whats  certain is that a second 
recovery agent collected Mr Ss car as promised that evening and took it to a storage yard.  
I dont think its possible to know for sure what happened that day. But Mr S may have called  
a number that went directly to the recovery service (not to Aviva) on the day of the incident. 
Alternatively, he could  have called a central  number that directed his call to the recovery  
service. That might  explain  why Aviva has no record of a call from him. If the recovery agent 
left the scene to attend an emergency  call out, and realised later that day that Mr Ss car was 
still in the location where  it broke  down,  it would explain  the second  call to him.     
The issue  is whether Mr S should be compensated for having to pay for a taxi on the day of 
the breakdown,  when  he had two policies that both provided transport for him, depending on 
the circumstances.  Mr S says that even if the motor policys  rescue and recovery  terms 
didnt apply to his situation (due to the mechanical breakdown  exclusion) those in the 
separate breakdown policy did.   
Mr S bought the breakdown policy when  he took out the motor policy with Aviva. The policy 
is called  Rescue from Aviva but it isnt underwritten by Aviva.  The breakdown policy  says 
cover will be provided  if a vehicle ceases to work due to mechanical and electrical failure,  
but not as a result of fire. Fire seemed to have caused the problem when Mr S called for 
assistance. Theres no evidence that Aviva knew anything about the breakdown  at the time.  
So it looks  as though the initial attempt at roadside assistance - and the later vehicle 
recovery  were carried out under the separate breakdown  policy. 
If thats what happened, it isnt clear why, as the breakdown policy  excludes incidents  
caused by fire. But in any event, I dont think we can consider the service  or lack of it 
provided under the separate breakdown policy  including  the failure to offer Mr S and his 
family transport on the day of the incident. The breakdown policys  wording says the 
breakdown contract  is with another business,  not Aviva. It also advises consumers that they 
arent able to bring complaints about the breakdown policy to this service. Thats because  
activities carried out by a business that only deals with roadside  assistance (including rescue 
and recovery services) dont fall within our jurisdiction.  
Ref: DRN84342153To sum up, I dont think Mr S can show that Aviva acted unreasonably by deciding not to 
deal with the claim for the damaged car. It relied  on the view of an independent  engineer that 
the cause of the damage was excluded  from cover under the motor insurance policy. I dont 
think Mr S can show that Aviva was involved in the roadside assistance and recovery  of the 
car. Mr S doesnt think he was given the service  he was entitled  to under the separate  
breakdown policy,  but unfortunately that isnt something we are able to consider.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Aviva accepted them. Mr S made 
numerous comments. He also provided copies of both policy documents,  two invoices from 
his garage, some photos of the cars engine and the breakdown  services  attendance note. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many of Mr Ss comments were about  the poor service he got under the breakdown policy.  I 
cant consider how the provisions of that policy were  carried out, as I explained in my 
provisional decision. This complaint is limited  to whether the way Aviva acted under the 
provisions of the motor  policy was reasonable. 
Mr S insists  that Aviva underwrites  the breakdown policy, so he says its responsible for the 
breakdown services actions. But Im satisfied that a separate  business underwrites that 
policy. Mr S also says the call he got on the evening of the breakdown was from a firm 
connected to Aviva. But as Ive already said, I dont think theres any evidence  of that. 
Avivas records  show  no call to it from Mr S until four days after the accident.  
In Mr Ss view, the independent engineer Aviva used wasnt  independent, as he was paid by 
Aviva.  Insurers can either use their own engineers or those employed  by independent firms.   
We give great weight to the views  of independent  engineers, whether theyre used by an 
insurer or by a consumer.  Ultimately their duty isnt to the business or person who paid them, 
but to the court that might  have to consider  the evidence at some  stage.  So their task is to 
provide an honest  assessment of the facts, to the best of their ability. Mr S said hed 
provided a report from his garage, but he only attached invoices wed already seen. 
Mr S pointed out that Avivas policy covered him for fire damage.  Thats  correct  - and had he 
called it on the day of the incident, I think the cars  likely to have been recovered. I think  
transport for Mr S and his family  would  have been  provided. Thats  because  it probably 
wouldnt have been obvious straight away that there was a mechanical fault. But the 
evidence indicates  that Mr S didnt call Aviva  that day. 
Later on, when the independent engineer  had a chance to assess  the damage  and the 
cause of it, he decided  it was a mechanical fault. The resultant fire damage was covered 
under the policy,  but it was worth less than the policy  excess. So I remain of the view that it 
was reasonable  for Aviva not to cover the claim. 
I think its clear  from Mr Ss account that he and his family had a very unpleasant experience 
on the day of the incident.  I sympathise with the situation they faced, but as I dont think 
Aviva acted unreasonably, I cant uphold  Mr Ss complaint.    
Ref: DRN84342154my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434215