K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that she lost money because Santander UK Plc incorrectly  advised  her 
about the time it would  take to clear a cheque she had written.
background
Ms P paid builders more  than £400  by cheque for work they had carried out and she rang 
Santander later the same  day. She wanted information about cheque  clearance timescales 
as she was concerned  she had insufficient  money in her account. She asked Santander to 
transfer another £100 into her account.
Ms P rang the following day because she was worried that the builders had overcharged her 
and that she had therefore  fallen  victim to fraudsters  or scammers.  The cheque  hadnt been 
cashed and Santander offered to block the payment. Ms P declined saying she wanted  to 
talk to the police first.
Ms P rang the next day having spoken to the police.  She asked the bank  to stop the cheque, 
but it had by then been  cashed.
Ms P complained to Santander.  She says the bank had told her that her cheque  would take 
at least four days to clear,  but this had proved to be wrong. She says she would have 
cancelled the cheque earlier save for the banks incorrect information. Santander agreed that 
it had advised  Ms P incorrectly,  but it had nevertheless also offered to stop the cheque. It 
therefore didnt  believe it was responsible for Ms Ps cheque  being cashed. It did however 
pay Ms P £25 compensation for its error in providing  incorrect  information. 
Ms P complained to us saying that she had paid twice  the amount she should have done for 
the work  that had been carried  out, and she held Santander responsible for this.
Having listened  to both of Ms Ps phone  calls, our investigator didnt consider that Santander 
could reasonably be held responsible for Ms Ps cheque being cashed.
Our investigator said that although timescales were discussed during Ms Ps first phone call 
Ms Ps main priority had been to ensure that there was enough money  in her account. And 
during her second  call Santander had offered to stop the cheque, but Ms P had been clear 
that she wanted to consult  the police first as she was worried  that the builders might  cause 
problems if she stopped the cheque.
In summary,  our investigator didnt believe that Ms P would have stopped  the cheque on 
either of her first two phone calls even if Santander had correctly told her that it was possible 
that it could clear in one day.
Ms P asked for an ombudsmans decision saying she would have stopped the cheque 
before it had been cashed if Santander  had advised  her correctly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having paid builders  by cheque Ms P subsequently  decided she had been  overcharged.  She 
holds Santander  responsible for her overpayment  because  she says she would have 
Ref: DRN82716152cancelled the cheque before the builders  had cashed it if the bank had given her the correct 
information about timescales.
Santander has provided us with recordings of Ms Ps phone calls and so we know exactly  
what was discussed.
Ms Ps main concern during her first call was to ensure that she had enough money  in her 
account to pay the cheque  as she was worried about possible repercussions  from the 
builders should  the cheque  bounce. Her concern was such that she asked the bank to 
transfer another £100 into her account  so that the cheque would be paid. 
Timescales were  discussed during this call and a number of figures were mentioned. The 
adviser said in some  banks a cheque could be cashed in one day. Although he didnt explain 
why this might happen, it has become possible with the adoption  by some banks of a new 
cheque imaging system. This allows for much  faster cheque  processing. And so if the bank 
to which  the builders presented Ms Ps cheque had this technology, the cheque  could have  
been dealt with very rapidly, and perhaps  within one day.
The adviser then said that at Santander  it would normally take two working days for a 
cheque to show on an account, but the money  wouldnt be available  to the payee for four to 
six days.
From this call Ms P cannot have been  clear about  the likely timescale for the money to leave 
her account  as various figures were  mentioned  ranging from one day to six days. But I 
consider that Ms Ps main  reason for trying  to establish timescales was to ensure that she 
had enough money in her account  to pay the cheque as she feared possible repercussions  if 
she did not.
During Ms Ps second call the adviser  said the cheque could take five days to clear and 
offered to stop it being paid. But Ms P was adamant that she wanted to take advice from the 
police first because the builders knew where she lived and she was worried about  her well 
being.
But when Ms P rang the next day, having  by then spoken to the police, it was too late to stop 
the cheque as it had been paid.
Having considered the detail of what took place  here, and although I have considerable 
sympathy with Ms P who believes she was overcharged by builders, Im afraid  I cannot  hold 
Santander responsible for this. I agree that Santander  didnt make  it sufficiently clear that Ms 
Ps cheque  could be cashed  in as little as one day. Although the banks advisers  mentioned 
this possibility, the general impression given was that four to six days would  be more likely.  
But on the balance  of probabilities I do not consider that Ms P would have decided to stop 
the cheque sooner than she did if Santander had placed greater emphasis on the possibility 
that it would  clear in fewer  than four days. I say this because Ms P was primarily concerned 
with ensuring she had enough money  in her account  to pay the cheque when she first rang 
the bank. And she declined  to stop the cheque during her second call because  she was 
worried about possible repercussions  from the builders if she did, and she wanted  first to 
take advice from the police.
Santander has already paid Ms P £25 in recognition of its poor service  in providing incorrect 
information. I consider  this to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN82716153my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8271615