K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003 alongside an additional  loan to his mortgage.  Mr W says Yorkshire Building Society 
(YBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W first took out his mortgage in 2000. He confirmed in the mortgage application form that 
he was going  to protect his repayments with a third party,  so didnt need PPI at that time.  
In 2003, Mr W applied  for an additional loan to his mortgage. YBS has given me a document 
that was completed  during the meeting in which Mr W requested the additional loan.  In this, 
the YBS representative went through Mr Ws circumstances and recommended  that he take 
PPI. Mr W declined to take PPI during the meeting. A few days later, he completed  an 
application form for the loan and was given a yes and no option for the PPI. He selected 
no. So I think Mr W was aware that he could decline PPI at any point if he didnt need or 
want the policy.
Just over two weeks later,  Mr W completed  a separate PPI application form for PPI. In this, 
he requested unemployment cover  only with a total monthly benefit of £600 and a 30 day 
excess period. Considering that Mr W had previously declined PPI on more  than one 
occasion before completing a separate PPI application  form in which  he amended the policy 
to suit his needs,  I think he was aware  he didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose 
to take it out.
YBS recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr W says he had good sick pay and some savings available to him. But the PPI policy  
provided unemployment cover, so I dont think Mr Ws sick pay wouldve affected his 
decision to take out the PPI. The policy couldve covered the mortgage repayments for up to 
12 months per claim, and that wouldve been  in addition to his redundancy pay. And it meant  
he couldve  used his savings on other  expenditure if he was unable to work. So I think  he 
couldve found it useful.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr W off taking  out the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN80339832But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8033983