K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  that Uncle Buck Finance  LLP lent to her irresponsibly. 
background
Miss K was approved for two loans. One was for £100 on 13 May 2014 and due to be repaid 
on 23 May 2014. Miss K repaid it on 24 May 2014.
On that same day  24 May 2014  - Miss K applied for a £600 loan which was approved but 
for a lesser  amount of £450. It was due to be repaid  on 23 June 2014, but Miss K had 
difficulty repaying. That loan was passed to a third-party debt purchaser in September  2015. 
I am unclear whether  it remains outstanding or not. 
This complaint has had a lengthy  passage  through the ombudsman service  and there  have 
been changes  in opinion along the way. Our first adjudicator  upheld  both loans. Uncle  Buck 
disagreed. Our second adjudicator did not uphold either loan. Miss K disagreed. 
The complaint remains unresolved and has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  the law, any relevant 
regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered. We have set 
out on our website our approach to short term lending. 
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a 
sustainable manner  without it adversely impacting  on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves did not set out compulsory checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into 
account a number of different things, including how much was being  lent and when the sum 
being borrowed was due to be repaid. 
Uncle Buck  has given us a lot of explanations in relation to Miss Ks two applications but not 
very much information. It has not been  able to send the credit search results  (save one) 
even though it has described  that it carried out a suite of credit  searches. It has only sent to 
me the short version of one credit search  result which  verified Miss Ks income as being 
£1,500. This is dated 13 May 2014. 
Miss K had applied to Uncle  Buck  in 2011,  2012  and 2013 but they had been either 
cancelled, declined or the underwriting approval  had expired. And the last application in 
2013 had been about six months before this first Loan in 2014.  So, I have considered these  
two loans which are the subject  of this complain as a fresh loan chain.
Loan 1 was for £100 and it was the first loan in this chain to this lender, so on a declared 
income of £1,500 then I think that proportionate checks  would have been  for Uncle  Buck to 
Ref: DRN80512552have known Miss Ks income. Uncle Buck says it did know  that and so its likely that the 
approval for it took place after proportionate  checks  had been carried out. I am not able to 
know what the additional credit check results  Uncle  Buck said it carried  out may have 
revealed because  I do not have those  results. 
Within the Uncle Buck files sent to us, the extensive lists of expenditure figures were not 
specific to Miss K but more generic. Uncle Buck has explained  that it was not inclined to 
take these figures  into account as they were based on typical  profiles which  did not always 
match with our customer profiles. So, these have not been considered  by me. 
I do not uphold  Miss Ks complaint  about Loan  1.
For Loan 2, then I think that Uncle  Buck  ought to have reacted to the fact that she applied for 
a loan of £600, six times  larger than her first, and it appears to have been on the day (or at 
the very least,  the day after) she repaid Loan 1. That massive increase and proximity  to the 
previous repaid loan ought  to have alerted it and, I think, prompt  it to have done more.  
I would have expected that proportionate  checks would have included checking Miss Ks 
income, expenditure, her other regular financial commitments, and whether she had any 
outstanding short-term loans. 
Uncle Buck  has explained  that it would have done comprehensive checks  including call 
validate, MODA, TAC and Lending Metrics True Time. I dont have those results and so I do 
not know what those  revealed. Whatever  Uncle Buck discovered it chose to approve a lesser 
amount of £450.  
In its Final Response Letter  (FRL)  to Miss K, Uncle Buck had said to her that she confirmed 
that her application had remained unchanged since her last loan. But I have seen from the 
limited documents  and records sent to me by Uncle Buck that there  was a significant 
difference: that Miss K had declared  an additional  income of £1,650  per month.  This was not 
referred to in its FRL to her and now Uncle Buck  seeks  to rely on it to defend  its position.  At 
the same  time, it has reported the fact that it is not sure that this was a truthful  application 
and it has suggested  that the untruth may have related to that second income. 
Miss K has denied she had so much additional income. And so, from one of her other 
complaints with us I looked at some bank  statements to see what Uncle Buck  was likely to 
have found if it did carry out what I considered to have been proportionate checks. 
Many of the statements were too early in time to be relevant  to this complaint, but some 
covered the period leading up to the middle  of January 2014, just a few weeks before this 
application to Uncle Buck. Those  statements revealed that she did receive about £1,400 
regularly from an organisation which seemed to dovetail with information Miss K had given 
about her job. So, I take that to have been  her regular salary. The statements did not reveal 
any obvious second income. 
However, the statements did show me that there were a lot of transfers  to and from another 
bank account  and I do not know what they were and may have come  from a second source 
of income. They  were often for large  sums.  As well as this, I have seen on Miss Ks 
statements a large credit from an insurance company for £2,450 in January  2014.
I note that Miss K has been  asked by us many times for additional  statements  to cover the 
period specifically relating to this complaint, and she knew that I was due to review  the 
complaint. The last we heard from Miss K was 18 October 2019. She was reminded in 
Ref: DRN80512553January 2020  and informed that it was likely  Id proceed with my decision, using the 
information currently on the file. So, I consider it fair to Uncle  Buck to do just that.
Having considered all that I have seen  and what I know about Uncle Bucks practices when 
considering complaints then I do not uphold  Miss Ks complaint for Loan  2.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss K to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8051255