K821x#15complaint
Mr O and Mrs O have complained to Thinc Network  Services Limited (Thinc) about 
mortgage and investment  advice they say was received from Diamond Estates  NI Ltd 
(Diamond) in 2008.
background
Diamond was an appointed representative  (AR) of Thinc at the time advice was given.  
Represented by a firm of solicitors, Mr O and his mother, Mrs O, complained in 2015  that the 
advice was unsuitable and unaffordable for them.
They took out a mortgage for £135,000 on an interest-only basis.   From the proceeds  of that 
mortgage, Mr O and Mrs O cleared an existing mortgage of £97,139 and were left with a 
balance of £37,383.  Mr  O and Mrs O then paid £32,000 as a deposit for an off-plan property 
development in the Caribbean (Harlequin).
Thinc responded to the complaint initially stating that the adviser had provided suitable 
mortgage advice,  and the intended use of those funds was the responsibility  of Mr O and 
Mrs O.  It also explained  why it considered the complaint has been brought outside of the 
permitted timeframes.
Another ombudsman  previously considered whether the complaint had been made too late 
and is within  our jurisdiction.  She  concluded the complaint was made in time and that one of 
our investigators should review its merits.
The investigator who looked into the complaint concluded it should be upheld.   She said 
Thinc had accepted  responsibility for the mortgage  advice given, and the advice to invest  in 
Harlequin was connected  to that and so Thinc is responsible for the overall  advice as a 
whole.
To put things right, the investigator  recommended Thinc pay compensation broadly 
comparing Mr O and Mrs Os current position with what it would have been had they not 
borrowed extra money on the mortgage and invested in Harlequin.
Mr O and Mrs O accepted  the investigators  recommendation.  Thinc did not  and detailed 
responses were provided by its solicitors.  I havent  set everything out in full here, but in 
summary it said:
The matter of jurisdiction is still live, and it considers the complaint was made  outside  
of the timescales  set out in the DISP rules  which govern this Service.
There is no formal documentation from the time which evidences  that Diamond 
provided any investment advice,  and the role of another business  in the paperwork 
should be considered.
The evidence does  not show that Mr O and Mrs O raised any capital when they re-
mortgaged in 2008, and the full £135,000 borrowing was used to redeem the existing  
mortgage.
Even if Diamond did provide investment advice, Thinc is not responsible as the AR 
agreement between  them only allowed investment advice in relation to AXA UK 
products.
Ref: DRN83900222In the event the complaint is upheld,  any redress should  only be in relation to losses  
flowing from the mortgage advice, and not the investment or additional capital 
borrowed.
The redress recommended by the investigator,  provides a deduction  for additional  
capital that Mr O and Mrs O have had the benefit  of.  So it should  also be considered  
whether they gained  any interest,  investment returns, or debt savings having had the 
benefit of those funds for 11 years.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
I should note that in its response to the investigators view, Thincs  solicitors  made reference 
to not having seen  some of the documentation relating to Mr O and Mrs Os complaint.  In 
particular, theyve referred to the documentation relating to the investment in Harlequin.  I 
also note theyve disagreed with the amount of the existing mortgage Mr O and Mrs O had  
and redeemed using  the new mortgage  borrowing  in 2008.  I requested that the investigator  
provide Thinc with the relevant documents relating to these  issues.
Thincs solicitors responded  saying that it accepted that it appears Mr and Mrs O borrowed 
an additional  sum over their existing mortgage.   But it re-iterated why it feels  the complaint is 
out of time, and why Thincs responsibility is limited to the mortgage advice.
jurisdiction time limits
Although a previous ombudsman has considered whether our Service can deal with the 
merits of the complaint and decided the complaint  was made  within the relevant time limits, 
this is an issue which Im required to review and take further account of in reaching my 
decision.
The rules  setting out the time limits which  allow our Service to consider a complaint can be 
found in DISP 2.8.2R.   It states that a complaint  is out of time and cannot be considered  if 
referred to our Service more than:
six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have  become aware) that he had cause for complaint.
Mr O and Mrs O referred their complaint to this Service in December 2015, so more  than six 
years after the advice they complain about.   The previous ombudsman concluded that the 
complaint was made within  three  years  of when Mr O and Mrs O knew  (or ought to have 
known) they had cause  for complaint and set out reasons why.  
Ive reviewed everything provided  by Thincs solicitors and understand they believe Mr O 
and Mrs O should have  reasonably had a cause to complain at an earlier  point in time.  
When they invested in Harlequin in 2008 it was expected that the property development 
would have been completed  and sold; enabling  them to repay the mortgage borrowing. 
Ref: DRN83900223It appears the Harlequin agreement gave details of staged milestones and an expected 
completion date of summer 2011.   Although  the development was not completed at that 
time, in this instance  Im not persuaded Mr O and Mrs O ought to have had cause for 
complaint.  Its not uncommon for property development projects to overrun, and there were 
ongoing reassurances given to investors that things were progressing.   But the key issue  for 
me is that Harlequin  was paying to service the mortgage  interest  payments for Mr O and Mrs 
O, and whilst this happened  they were not incurring any personal expense.  So  Im satisfied 
they would  have been reassured that the investment would work out and repay the mortgage 
as expected eventually.
I believe the situation likely changed in early  2013 when Harlequin stopped making  
payments to maintain the mortgage interest. At this point  things werent  working as theyd 
expected, and it was costing them funds  personally  to meet  the mortgage payments. 
So I consider Mr O and Mrs O ought reasonably to have had cause for complaint from that 
point onwards  but they raised those concerns within three years from that time.  So  whilst  I 
understand the points made  by Thinc (which I havent set out in full here but have 
considered), Im satisfied it is a complaint I can deal with.
is Thinc  responsible for the acts complained  about?
Mr O and Mrs O have complained they were  given unsuitable advice by Diamond, and that 
because it was an AR of Thinc at the time, it is Thinc which  is responsible for that advice.
DISP 2.3.1R states that we can consider a complaint under our compulsory  jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of one or more listed  activities,  
(including regulated  activities), or any ancillary  activities carried  on by the firm in connection 
with those activities.
Section 39 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  (FSMA) says:
s.39. Exemption of appointed  representatives.
(1)If a person (other than an authorised person)
(a)Is a party  to a contract  with an authorised  person (his principal) which   permits 
or requires him to carry on business  of a prescribed description, and complies 
with such requirements as may be prescribed,  and
(b)Is someone for whose  activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility  in writing,  he is exempt from the general  
prohibition in relation to any regulated activity comprised in the carrying  on of that 
business for which his principal has accepted  responsibility.

(3) The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which  he has accepted responsibility.
Ref: DRN83900224So under s.39,  a principal is required to accept responsibility for the business being  
conducted by its AR.  The words  part of in s.39 a principal firm to accept responsibility for 
only part of the business conducted by its AR  and case  law has confirmed how this 
applies in certain  circumstances.
So for me to decide whether Thinc is responsible for the advice Mr O and Mrs O complain 
about there are several points I must consider:
what are the acts about which Mr O and Mrs O have complained  about?
were those acts done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
did Diamond carry out those acts?
is Thinc  responsible for the acts carried  out by Diamond (as its AR)?
what are the acts about which  Mr O and Mrs O have  complained  about?
As set out above, Mr O and Mrs O complain about mortgage and investment advice.  They  
say they were advised to take out mortgage borrowing to make  an overseas, off-plan 
property investment in Harlequin.
were those acts done in the carrying on of a regulated activity?
Regulated activities are specified in part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order  
2001 (the RAO) and include  advising on the merits of buying and selling a particular 
investment which  is a security or relevant investment (article 53 RAO), and making 
arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security  or relevant 
investment (article 25 RAO).
Advising on a regulated mortgage contract  is a regulated  act, as is advising on a collective 
investment scheme  (such as the Harlequin  investment).
So the acts Mr O and Mrs O complaint about are regulated activities.
did Diamond carry out those acts?
Thinc has accepted that Mr O and Mrs O were  provided with mortgage  advice  by Diamond, 
and so this is not in dispute.  But the complaint is that Diamond also provided  the advice to 
invest in Harlequin.
The investigator who reviewed everything  was persuaded that Diamond did also give the 
investment advice to Mr O and Mrs O.  Though she did also note there was a reference to 
another business in the property investment  literature, and that business  had no affiliation 
with Thinc.
Thincs solicitors have said the potential  involvement  of the third party  business  should be 
considered further  to determine whether the adviser  was acting for Diamond or that other  
business.
I note that a third party business that was linked with Diamond is prominently referred to at 
the top of some of the property investment literature.  But that literature is in relation to a 
different property development in Spain, not the Caribbean  development they invested 
through Harlequin. So its quite possible the third party business was purely an agent for 
Ref: DRN83900225promoting alternative property investments (which Mr O and Mrs O did not opt to proceed 
with).  
Ive reviewed the information available to me and havent seen anything  to suggest the third 
party business was involved  in providing Mr O and Mrs O any advice  about either the 
mortgage or investment.  In a credible statement about what  happened at the time,  Mr O and 
Mrs O say the Diamond adviser  visited their home  and jointly  discussed  the mortgage  and 
investment. And were it not for the Harlequin investment advice there would have  been  no 
need for the mortgage.
So overall, Im persuaded that Mr O and Mrs O received advice about the mortgage and 
investment in Harlequin from Diamond.   Were it not for the mortgage proceeds,  the 
investment could not have gone ahead, and the fact that Harlequin made payments to help 
service the mortgage,  means Im satisfied  the advice was all closely  linked.
is Thinc  responsible for the acts carried  out by Diamond (as its AR)?
The rules  about  what complaints our Service can deal with are set out in the Dispute 
Resolution Rules (DISP) in the FCA Handbook.   The guidance at DISP  2.3.3G  says:  
complaints about acts or omissions  include  those in respect of activities for which the firmis 
responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for which the 
firmhas accepted responsibility)". 
So a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation 
to the business it has accepted responsibility for.
ARs are not employees of the principal firm.  They are independent and might not act only 
for the principal firm.  Sometimes those who operate as ARs operate other businesses also.    
So sometimes it is clear that a person who happens to be an AR does something  on his own 
account (or in some other capacity), rather than as business for the principal.
In the case of Emmanuel v DBS Management Plc [1999] Lloyds Re P.N 593 a principal 
(under the s.44 Financial  Services Act 1986) was held not to be liable for activities that were  
held to be outside the scope of the business the principal had accepted  responsibility for.  In 
that case the claimant had been advised to subscribe for shares  in and lend money  to the 
AR itself. 
Another example  is in the case of Frederick  v Positive Solutions  [2018] EWCA Civ 431.  That  
case concerns agency rather  than s.39 appointed representative issues. Nevertheless  the 
case gives an example  of a person having  a connection with a regulated  business and doing  
something on their own account.  In  that case the person who was an agent for Positive 
Solutions (for some purposes) was held to be engaging in a recognisably  independent 
business of his own   a property investment scheme.    
In this complaint,  Thinc  has confirmed that it accepted responsibility for the mortgage advice 
given by Diamond  as its AR.  But Thincs solicitors have stated that it cannot  be responsible 
for any advice to invest in Harlequin, and it was not business that was accepted or permitted 
within the AR agreement  between  Thinc  and Diamond.  
The agreement set out that Thinc  did accept responsibility for Diamonds investment 
advisory business  but only for business placed  through a single provider, AXA UK.  This is 
something Ive considered.
Ref: DRN83900226what does accepted  responsibility mean here?
It is important  to keep in mind here that I am talking about appointed representatives acting  
in their capacity as appointed representatives.  So I am discussing a creation of statute not 
common law agency.
I note the following comments made  by the courts:
Page v Champion  Financial Management Limited  [2014] EWHC 1778, Mr Simon  Picken QC 
sitting as a Deputy  Judge of the High Court said:
12at the hearing  before  me [counsel] confirmed that he was not seeking  to argue 
that Section  39(3) gives rise to vicarious liability in the strict (legal)  sense. This was a 
sensible concession since it is clear that Section 39(3)  does not entail the imposition 
of vicarious liability: see, by way of illustration, Jackson & Powell  on Professional 
Liability (7th Ed) at paragraph 14-017.
In Ovcharenko  v Investuk  Ltd [2017]  EWHC 2114,  HHJ Waksman QC said:
49  Section 39(3) renders an entirely separate statutory liability  and has nothing  to 
do, on the face of it, with the law of agency. It does not require  an agency to be 
proved before it can be activated
In that case the judge did also make clear that there might also be an agency relationship  
between the principal and the appointed  representative depending on the facts  of the case.   
However for present purposes it is important to concentrate on the precise terms and scope 
of the appointed representative status rather than common  law agency principles. 
As mentioned above, at the relevant time s.39 said:
"(1) If a person (other than an authorised person) 
(a) is a party  to a contract  with an authorised  person ("his principal")  which  
(ii) permits or requires him to carry on business  of a prescribed description, and
(ii) complies with such requirements as may be prescribed, and
(a)is someone for whose  activities in carrying on the whole or part of that business 
his principal has accepted responsibility  in writing,
he is exempt from the general prohibition  in relation  to any regulated activity 
comprised in the carrying on of that business  for which his principal has accepted 
responsibility
(3)The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as 
if he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the 
representative in carrying on the business for which he has accepted 
responsibility." (my emphasis)
Ref: DRN83900227So under s.39 the principal (Thinc) is required to accept responsibly  for that business  which  
is a reference  back to business of a prescribed description .
I refer to the first instance decision in the case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018]  EWHC  
2834, which was recently  considered by the Court of Appeal (Anderson  v Sense Network 
Limited [2019] EWCA 1395).  That case makes it clear that the words  part of in s.39 allow a 
principal firm to accept  responsibility for only part of the generic business  of a prescribed 
description.
I will first deal with the meaning of business  of a prescribed description and then deal with 
the part of point.   
business of a prescribed description
Prescribed business,  as set out in the interpretation  section  of FSMA, means prescribed in 
regulations made by the Treasury.  This is the RAO as referred to above.   So prescribed 
business is business  which is defined at a high level.  It means business in the sense of 
certain regulated  activities  not in the sense of an individual  transaction.
So it means advising on mortgages and advising on investments  it doesnt mean advising 
Mr O and Mrs O on their particular investments.
The prescribed business  that Thinc accepted responsibility for is set out in the AR 
agreement between it and Diamond.   It states  that the scope of permissions includes 
advising and arranging  investments, and advising on regulated  mortgage  contracts.  
However, it does appear that Thinc intended  to limit the investment advice Diamond  was 
permitted to give, as the AR agreement continues to state that investment advice is in 
relation to a Single Provider, unlike the mortgage  advice which could be Whole of Market.  
This is consistent with Thincs representations,  that it accepts responsibility for the mortgage 
advice, but not the investment advice (as it wasnt  in relation to AXA UK products).
However, I dont consider  that restriction means  that our Service does not have jurisdiction 
to look at the complaint Mr O and Mrs O have made.   Although  Thinc  may not have  given 
Diamond actual authority  to provide  Mr O and Mrs O advice to invest  in Harlequin, it doesnt 
mean they arent responsible for it.
These types of restrictions  have  been  considered by the Courts.   In Ovcharenko v 
Investuk, HHJ Waksman said the following (where D1 was the appointed representative 
and D2 was the principal).
First the court set out the purpose of the statutory provision it was interpreting. The 
judge said:
21 Section 39(3) then says:
(3) The principal of an appointed  representative  is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted  by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
That, therefore, is a statutory attribution of liability against, here, D2 for the activities of D1 
in the way I have described.
Ref: DRN83900228Then the judge  said:
33  the whole point of section  39(3) is to ensure a safeguard for clients who deal with 
authorised representatives  but who would not otherwise be permitted to carry  out 
regulated activities,  so that they have a long stop liability target  which is the party which  
granted permission to the authorised representative in the first place. In my judgment,  
section 39(3) is a clear and separate statutory  route to liability. It does no more  and no 
less than enable  the claimant,  without  law, to render the second defendant liable where 
there have  been defaults on the part of the authorised representative in the carrying  out 
of the business and which responsibility  had been  accepted
34 [counsel for D2] has relied upon certain other provisions within the authorised  
representative agreement.  He relies on paragraph 4.3 which is simply  a promise by D1 
to D2 that it will not do anything outside clause 3.
35 All that does  is regulate  the position inter se between D1 and D2. It says nothing  about  
the scope of the liability of D2 to the claimants under  section 39(3). The same  point can be 
made in respect of clause 4.7 which says,  "The  representative  will not carry  out any activity  
in breach of section 19 of FSMA [sic  this should  be s.39 as per the quote from clause 4.7 
in paragraph 9 of the judgment  and the following  description of the clause] which limits  the 
activities that can be undertaken or of any other applicable  law or regulation". Again,  that is 
a promise  made inter se.
36 The reason for those promises is obvious.  D2 will be, as it were, on the hook to the 
claimants as in respect of the defaults of D1 and if those  defaults have arisen because D1 
has exceeded  what it was entitled to do or has broken the law in any way, then that gives 
a right of recourse  which  sounds  in damages on the part of D2 against D1. If [Counsel  for 
D2] was correct, it would follow  that any time there was any default on the part of an 
authorised representative,  for example, by being in breach of COBS, that very default  will 
automatically
take the authorised  representative not only outside the scope of the authorised 
representative agreement but will take D2 outside the scope  of section 39(3) , in which case  
its purpose as a failsafe protection  for the client will be rendered nugatory; that is an 
impossible construction and I reject  it.
The judge  in TenetConnect v Financial Ombudsman  Service [2018] EWHC 459 (Admin) 
agreed with the above. In that case the principal had argued that it was not responsible for 
advice to invest in an investment in which it did not authorise the appointed representative 
to deal. The judge said:
the decisions in Martin  v Britannia and in Ovcharenko are clearly against [Counsel for 
TenetConnect] . The fact that [the appointed representative] had no actual authority, 
express or implied,  to act as he did on Tenet's behalf, nor was he held out by Tenet as 
having such  authority, does not answer the s.39(3) issue.
So its clear the courts  think  that at least some conditions on the authority given to an 
appointed representative in a s.39 agreement only apply as between the parties.   Does  
that mean all terms in the contract apply in that way? The answer to that question  is no 
because of the words  part of in s.39.
part of 
This was considered  in Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC  2834  and more recently 
confirmed by the Court of Appeal in the same case.  The judge, Mr Justice  Jacobs, said:
Ref: DRN83900229 133. There is no indication  in the wording of section  39, or in the case-law, that indicates  that 
the business for which  responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by reference to the 
contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the principal which are to be found in 
the Financial Services  register
136. I agree  with the Claimants  that liability  under  section  39 (and its predecessor) cannot 
simply be answered by asking whether a particular  transaction  was within the scope of the AR's 
actual authority
137. In Ovcharenko, HHJ Waksman QC considered the scope  of Clause 3.2 of the AR agreement  
in that case,  and went on to hold that the relevant investment advice was "firmly encompassed  by 
the permitted  services in the authorised representative agreement": see paragraph [32]. He said 
that the "business  for which responsibility had been accepted encompasses  the services  set out in 
Clause 3 of the authorised representative agreement". Thus, section 39 was engaged 
notwithstanding other  provisions  of the AR agreement which imposed obligations or restrictions 
upon the AR; specifically, not to offer inducements, and an obligation  not to do anything  outside 
clause 3. The judge considered that these restrictions were matters which  applied between  the 
principal and the AR inter se, and did not affect  liability under s.39.
138. Most recently, in TenetConnect,  Ouseley J applied the decisions in
both Martin  and Ovcharenko, in circumstances  where  it was common ground that liability  under 
s.39 "was not to be determined  as a matter of the contractual law of agency": see paragraph [61]. 
The basis of the decision  in TenetConnect  was that the relevant advice on "unregulated" 
investments was sufficiently  closely linked to the advice on regulated investments, which the AR 
was authorised to give. The case therefore again  supports  the proposition that in ascertaining the 
scope of section 39, and the question of the business for which the principal has accepted 
responsibility, it is relevant to consider the terms of agreement  between  the principal and the AR. 
It is implicit in the decision  that if the advice on the unregulated investments had not been 
sufficiently closely linked to advice  which  the AR was authorised to give, then there would  have 
been no liability under section 39.
139. I also agree with the Claimants that the authorities indicate  that it is appropriate to take a 
broad approach when seeking to identify the "business  for which he has accepted responsibility". 
The fact that there may not be actual authority for a particular transaction, for example because of 
breach of an obligation not to offer an inducement (Ovcharenko), or because there was no 
authority to advise on a related transaction (TenetConnect), or
because certain duties  needed to be fulfilled  before a product  was offered, does not mean that 
the transaction in question falls outside the scope of the relevant "business" for which 
responsibility is taken. Equally, the approach must not be so broad that it becomes  divorced from 
the terms of the very AR agreement relied upon in support of the case that the principal has 
accepted responsibility for the business in question.
140. In the present case, I agree with Sense that the scheme, and advice in connection  with that 
scheme, were well beyond the scope of the "business" for which Sense accepted  responsibility 
pursuant to the AR agreement. It is beyond serious  argument that the activities  of MFSS and Mr. 
Greig in relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising upon it, were  wholly  
unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary  business of a financial adviser  to operate  a scheme  for 
taking deposits from clients. As the Claimants' expert, Mr. Morrey, said: "operating the scheme, so 
having the monies  under your control, clearly is not the work of a financial adviser".  Mr. Ingram's 
evidence was that he knew  that a firm of financial advisers should not be involved with the 
scheme, including because the firm was not allowed to handle client money and that the scheme  
was business of a kind that a properly regulated firm should not be involved with. Mr. Ingram  was 
referring to the express prohibitions in clause 5.3.6 and 5.3.7 against MFSS  accepting  or holding 
or handling  client  money.
Ref: DRN839002210All this means that a principal is responsible  for the acts and omissions of an appointed 
representative acting  within  their actual authority. It also means that sometimes a principal 
is responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond  their actual authority. And 
sometimes a principal  is not responsible when the appointed representative acts beyond 
their actual authority.   And the test in the Anderson  v Sense Network  judgment is that the 
principal is responsible when the act or omission  is sufficiently closely  linked to the 
activities for which the actual authority was given.
Thinc has confirmed it accepted responsibility  for the mortgage advice, but its solicitors  have 
stated that the investment was not inextricably linked to the mortgage  advice.  So  this has 
been a key issue for me to consider.
I understand Thinc believes  its unlikely  that Diamond (as its AR) gave investment advice, 
and that any investment advice was completely independent to the mortgage  advice.   But 
Im persuaded otherwise.
Although Thinc says Mr O and Mrs O appear  to have decided to invest in Harlequin before 
obtaining mortgage advice, I disagree.  The account of events given by Mr O and Mrs O was 
that they were  cold called and then visited at their home by the adviser.  They  say that he 
told them  about  the Harlequin  investment and how it could be funded by interest-only 
mortgage borrowing.
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr O or Mrs O had any other means  of funding Harlequin, 
or that they were looking to make  any investment  before  the Thinc adviser visited them.   In 
fact, were it not for the mortgage, I dont think any investment would  have gone  ahead.   This 
is further supported  by the fact that a feature of Harlequin was that it would make payments 
to service the interest needed to maintain the mortgage.  
So overall, Im satisfied Mr O and Mrs O were given advice about the mortgage and 
Harlequin investment  at the same time.   And as the investment could not have been  made  
without the mortgage proceeds, I consider it reasonable  to conclude the two pieces of advice  
to be sufficiently closely linked.  For these reasons I conclude  that Thinc  is responsible  for 
the acts of its AR, Diamond  and so I can consider the complaint  about the acts complained  
about as a whole.
my findings  on the merits of the complaint
I have considered what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint having 
taken everything into account.  Having done so, I have concluded the complaint should be 
upheld  and Ill explain why.
The complaint is about both mortgage and investment advice.  In relation to the mortgage,  
the adviser was required  to make sure the mortgage was suitable  for Mr O and Mrs Os 
circumstances.  His obligations  were set out within the Mortgages  Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOBS) that applied at the time.
Its quite possible,  and in fact likely, that the mortgage itself may not have been suitable.  As  
the adviser was required  to ensure  it was affordable  and met the needs and circumstances 
of Mr O and Mrs O  which included considering how it would be repaid.  But Ive not been 
required to explore this further, as Ive concluded that I can consider the investment advice 
(which covers the same losses), and that was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN839002211Harlequin was a high-risk overseas property development scheme which would have only 
been suitable for a small number of people.   It was unregulated and there were a number of 
reasons why the investment could  fail.  The development was off-plan, was exposed to 
currency fluctuations,  and, as Mr O and Mrs O were only paying  an initial deposit, it was 
dependent upon them obtaining further borrowing in order to complete the purchase.
Even if had the development  had been  completed, there were no guarantees theyd be able 
to sell the investment  property  or at what price.
Mr O and Mrs O werent sophisticated investors  with a diverse portfolio.  They  were  
borrowing money against a family home  and had no savings.  They both had modest  
incomes and were reliant on being  able to secure  further substantial  borrowing to fund 
completion of the investment.
Overall, the investment was clearly too high in risk for Mr O and Mrs O and there were too 
many things that could  go wrong and cause the investment to fail.  This  means  they would 
end up in the position which they now find themselves of not being  able to repay  the 
mortgage capital  they borrowed.
As the Harlequin  investment  was so closely linked to the mortgage, I am convinced they 
would not have taken the mortgage or made  any other investment had they not proceeded 
with the Harlequin  investment.
putting things right
I have concluded  Thinc is responsible for both the mortgage and investment advice, and that 
the advice was unsuitable for Mr O and Mrs O.  So to put things right I consider they should 
be put back into the position  they would likely have been in were it not for the unsuitable  
advice.
Whilst I cant be certain exactly what else Mr O and Mrs O would have done, on balance I 
believe they would not have borrowed more  money  to invest.  So  they would have either  
continued with their existing repayment  mortgage, or re-mortgaged  on similar terms.
To fairly compensate Mr O and Mrs O in a way that I consider to be fair and reasonable, 
Thinc should  pay them  the following sums:
A)The difference between the current balance of Mr O and Mrs Os current mortgage, 
and what the balance would have been  (at the date of settlement) had they kept their 
existing mortgage  on a repayment  basis with no additional  borrowing.
B)£1000  representing  the reservation fee deposit paid to secure the Harlequin 
investment.
C)£500 for the trouble  and upset Mr O and Mrs O have experienced whilst having a 
mortgage debt on a family home  that they had no means  of repaying.
Less;
D)Any payments  Mr O and Mrs O received  from Harlequin towards servicing  the 
mortgage.
E)£5,383.69  (being  the amount of additional borrowing Mr O and Mrs O took out that 
wasnt invested in Harlequin)  and that theyve  had the benefit  of.
Ref: DRN839002212I have also considered that if Mr O and Mrs O had continued  with a capital repayment 
mortgage, they would have needed  to pay higher monthly payments up until now.  Although  
they have had the benefit of that extra money each  month, Im satisfied they spent it with a 
reliance on the advice they received  that it was disposable funds available to them.  So  
whilst I could ask Thinc to make a deduction  for those  sums, I dont think itd be fair and 
reasonable to do so.
I also understand Thinc has requested any benefit  Mr O and Mrs O have had from the extra 
£5,383.69 they borrowed at E above  should be taken account  of  as they could have 
gained from investment returns or made  debt savings. But Ive tried to put things right in the 
simplest way possible whilst being fair and reasonable  to both parties.  So whilst I could ask 
Thinc to forensically trace any benefit to make a deduction for those sums, overall, I dont 
think it is needed.
For the purpose of putting things right, Ive worked on the basis  that the Harlequin  
investment has a nil value.  If this changes, or if any funds  are distributed in relation  to the 
Harlequin deposit at a later date, Thinc will be entitled to those funds.   Thinc  may request Mr 
O and Mrs O either assigns the investment to it or give an undertaking that they will transfer  
any future benefit.  Thinc must pay the costs associated with any such assignment  or 
undertaking.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr O and Mrs Os complaint against Thinc Network  
Services Limited.
To put things right is should pay to them the compensation  set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8390022