K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that Canada Square Operations Limited (Egg  Banking Plc at the time of the 
sale) mis-sold her a monthly premium  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs K applied for a credit card online in 2003. She was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this credit card.
The PPI cost 74p per £100 of the monthly  outstanding balance. It wouldve covered 10% of 
the monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Mrs K was off work sick or lost her 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs K complaint should  be upheld. Mrs K didnt agree with the 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs K case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs K complaint.
Ive looked at the policy document  and am satisfied  Mrs K was eligible for the policy  at the 
time of the sale.
Egg had to make it clear to Mrs K that the policy  was optional  and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Mrs K says she wasnt aware she was taking out 
PPI. 
Egg have  provided  evidence to support that PPI was sold online. I can see from the 
information provided that Egg wouldve given Mrs K two equally clear choices during the 
online process as to whether to take or refuse PPI. The application couldnt  proceed until 
one of the options had been chosen.  I think its more likely that Mrs K selected PPI and thats  
how it came  to be applied  to the account.  The application report also shows  Mrs K took PPI. 
So while I appreciate what Mrs K has told us, I think Egg made  it clear  to Mrs K that the 
policy was optional and she chose to take it out.
Given that the PPI was sold online,  I cant see that there was any involvement from a sales 
advisor. This means  I dont think Egg recommended  the PPI to Mrs K - so they didnt have to 
check if the policy was right for her. But they still had to give Mrs K clear enough information 
so that she could decide for herself  whether or not the policy was right for her. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs K wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But I dont 
think better information wouldve put Mrs K off taking the policy out. I say this because:
Ref: DRN83522892-Mrs K chose  to take out PPI and so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover despite  
her existing  provisions.  And the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to Mrs K sick pay. 
It would  also have  paid out if she lost her job. Mrs K has told us she would have been 
looking at increased sick pay just over a year after she completed the application  but 
at the time of the sale, I think the PPI would still have been  of use to her. 
-Mrs K didnt  seem to have been  affected by any of the main exclusions and 
restrictions in the policy  which wouldve  made  it more difficult for her to make  a 
successful claim  under the policy. For example,  those relating to certain  medical 
conditions and working arrangements.
-The PPI was competitively priced and I cant see that it was unaffordable to her.
-Mrs K couldve cancelled  the policy at any time without incurring a financial penalty. 
So for example,  Mrs K could have cancelled the policy when her employee  benefits 
increased.
So based  on what Ive seen, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Which means Egg doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K because:  
When the policy was sold, Egg expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs K about that. 
Because Egg didnt tell Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Egg has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs K has said - including what shes said about not being 
aware she was being  sold PPI and what she has told us about her employee benefits. But 
these points dont  change my decision for the reasons Ive already mentioned.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs K.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs K any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8352289