K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the refurbishment  charges hes been asked to pay by Hitachi  Capital 
(UK) Plc (Hitachi) at the end of a van lease hed been financing through  them.  
background
Mr M has on occasion been represented by a family member in this complaint but for ease I 
will refer to Mr M throughout.
In June 2014 Mr M took receipt of a new van. He financed the deal through a four year hire 
purchase agreement  with Hitachi. But when he returned the vehicle at the end of the lease 
he was shocked  to receive a bill for over £1,600 as the van had been  inspected and Hitachi  
said there was damage in excess of fair wear and tear.
He called Hitachi and the bill was eventually reduced to £981.77 as Hitachi accepted  that 
some of the damage  was not sufficiently  evidenced  in the inspectors report.  The outstanding 
charges cover refurbishment  to:
item cost (£s)
3 worn tyres 300
front bumper scuff 75
front panel colour mismatch 173.40
B Post dent 125
rear bumper damage 75
rear load door dent 75
front wing dent 158.37
total 981.77
Mr M disputes these charges and has noted  that Hitachi  dont  appear  to have fixed the 
problems they said were present before sending the van to auction. He said the inspectors 
went to extreme lengths to get photographs of any damage and it took over 90 minutes  to 
complete the inspection.  And he went on to complain that Hitachi  hadnt taken account of the 
fact hed returned the van with only 22,000  miles instead of his contracted  40,000.
Hitachi explained that the inspection was done by a third party  company  who inspected the 
car against the industry guidelines  for fair wear and tear that are provided by the British  
Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA). They thought  the damage they were now 
asking to be compensated  for had been adequately evidenced.
But Mr M didnt agree  so he referred  his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator took a 
look at the evidence. She noted that Mr Ms contract with Hitachi allowed them  to charge him 
for refurbishment if the van wasnt returned  in an acceptable condition  and she explained 
that the contract also explained that condition would be established by reference to the 
BVRLA guidance. She reviewed the inspection  report and whilst she agreed that some  of the 
damage hadnt been properly evidenced,  she did think that the remaining  charges were valid 
ones. She didnt think Hitachi could be at fault for the length of time the inspection  took and 
she explained that there was no benefit to the inspectors if they identified faults: they were 
independent and not on commission.  So, overall,  she thought the charges  that now 
remained and that Hitachi were no seeking  to levy, were fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN86285732But Mr M disagreed. He was upset  that Hitachi appeared to be able to get away  with 
charging for repairs they didnt complete and he went on to insist  that the tyres were  legal: 
hed had them checked only a couple of weeks earlier. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will really  disappoint Mr M and I can see he feels  very strongly about this issue  but 
Im afraid I think the charges for refurbishment, that Hitachi are now invoicing, are 
reasonable. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The hire purchase agreement Mr M signed explained that he would need to:
keep the vehicle  in good condition and repair.  It went on to explain that you will be 
responsible for any damage caused to or deterioration of the vehicle otherwise than through 
fair wear and tear as indicated  in the BVRLA  guidelines
And when  Mr M returned his van Hitachi used an independent inspector to inspect it using 
the BVRLA guidelines to identify any damage outside of fair wear and tear. 
The inspectors report said there  was damage to about 15 areas. Ive seen the pictures  and I 
agree that the damage that remains chargeable, and that Ive listed  above, is well evidenced 
and beyond that allowable under the BVRLA guidelines that are used throughout the 
industry.
I can understand that Mr M is disappointed to find that Hitachi  havent chosen  to repair  the 
vehicle but are, nonetheless, charging  him for the damage. This is normal  industry practice  
and I think Hitachi are entitled to take a decision, a calculated risk, to sell the vehicle at 
auction with the faults  highlighted,  and take a lesser  value  for the van.
The refurbishment charges are calculated to compensate Hitachi  for that loss and having  
reviewed the individual charges I dont think they are excessive.  They seem in line with other  
charges Ive seen  levied by similar companies.
Mr M has been particularly upset about  the tyre charges. Ive reviewed  those pictures in the 
inspection report and there appears  to be evidence of excessive wear.  There is very little 
tread on the outside of any of the tyres  and the front left tyre is particularly damaged: the 
tread has been completely worn away on the outer  third. So whilst  I dont  dispute  the tyres  
were acceptable  when Mr M had them inspected; at the time of this final inspection they 
clearly needed  replacing.  
Ref: DRN86285733Ive also reviewed the video evidence provided by Mr M, of the inspection process, but I 
dont think it demonstrated anything untoward. The inspection company are independent of 
Hitachi and theres  no advantage in them identifying faults. I can understand that this was a 
thorough inspection but that is what the inspector  is tasked with completing and I dont think 
its evidence that anything inappropriate happened.
So I dont  think Hitachi have been  unreasonable here and the charges  theyve  levied appear  
fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8628573