K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr L payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out to cover a mortgage.  Both 
started in 2002.  
Bank of Scotland says that its process  at this time, with this kind of mortgage, was for the 
insurer to contact the customer by phone after the mortgage was agreed. It says the insurer  
acted as the Bank of Scotlands  agent  in this. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive considered Mr Ls comments.  However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr L has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. However, it wouldnt be fair for me 
to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable  supporting evidence. Where  
someone has said another  person  or organisation has done  something wrong, fairness  
requires that they present evidence that this probably did happen.  It wouldnt  be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a long time 
ago.  
And in fact Ive seen  a copy of a letter that the insurer sent to Mr L just after Bank of 
Scotland says the PPI was sold. So the evidence does support the view that Mr L would 
have been aware  of the policy being set up, even if he doesnt  now remember it so many 
years later  and so its likely hed have  complained  at the time if he hadnt agreed to it. 
The letter at the very least shows its unlikely the PPI was added secretly, even if for some 
reason the letter didnt  reach Mr L. 
Mr L says his level of income  meant it was unlikely hed have taken the PPI. But I can see 
that many  people with a good income would still have found PPI reassuring, when taking on 
a big commitment such as a mortgage   so that isnt to my mind strong evidence that 
definitely shows he wouldnt  have  taken the PPI if offered it. 
In summary,  without stronger evidence  I cant fairly  say the PPI was added  without Mr Ls 
consent. 
Ive thought about other possible reasons the policy could have been mis-sold,  but I dont 
think they apply  to Mr Ls circumstances: 
Ref: DRN87668492Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr L, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sale process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr Ls particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though  any recommendation would 
have been suitable,  based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ls situation  at the time. Its likely 
Mr L was eligible for the policy.  And finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead 
to significant difficulties. The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same  time as Mr L 
received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would have paid 
unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the 
time when hed need to fall back on any savings or other means he may have had for 
paying the mortgage. This all would have put Mr L in a more secure position, if hed 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest he couldnt  afford the PPI when the policy  started. So I think the 
PPI would have  been potentially useful,  and so a recommendation  was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr L took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr L would have been affected by any of these.  Hes said he had 
a medical condition: but, from what hes said about it, I dont think it likely  hed have 
expected to need to claim as a result  of it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8766849