K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax  (Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs W has said she didnt  know PPI had been  added on to the mortgage. Halifax  has 
provided a copy of the PPI application  that was completed separate from the mortgage 
application. The form has been completed  with Mrs Ws personal details and with answers to 
questions regarding Mrs Ws eligibility for the PPI  which I think  indicates  a discussion took 
place about the policy. Mrs W has signed  the application which suggests  she wanted  the 
cover. So I think Halifax  made it clear  that Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this now many 
years later. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs W has said she would have received six months full followed by six months half sick 
pay from her employer  at the time as well as having some  savings.  But the PPI policy could  
have covered Mrs Ws repayments for up to 24 months per claim if she became too ill to 
work, or if she became unemployed. It wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay or 
savings she had and for longer than her sick pay lasted. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
any redundancy payment she may have  got if she lost her job. And as there  could have 
been serious consequences  of not keeping up repayments on a debt secured against  her 
home, if Mrs W couldnt work or lost her job then the PPI meant  her monthly  mortgage  
payments wouldve been met. And any savings  she had could be used for other  expenses. 
So I think the PPI policy couldve  been helpful  to her.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said but these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN83742412Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8374241