K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that jhm automotive limited has refused to return a deposit  he paid on a 
personal contract hire agreement for a new car.
background
In February 2018  Mr L entered into an agreement  with jhm to source a new car and finance. 
The business acts as a broker and the car and finance was to be provided by separate  
companies. Mr L paid a deposit of £100  and a broker fee of £299.
There was a delay  and jhm says this was due to the manufacturer shutting down its 
production line for a period and by the fact the manufacturer  had offered such a good deal it 
was inundated by orders which it couldnt meet.  Added to this the manufacturer had to 
undergo additional emissions testing which also caused delivery delays. 
Mr L disagreed and said that he had contacted  a number of dealers which could provide the 
car he wanted without  delay. He told jhm he wished  to cancel  his order  and he ordered the 
same car from another dealer on 9 May. He asked for his money to be refunded. The 
business repaid  him the deposit of £100, but said the broker  fee was non refundable. He 
said that it hadnt fulfilled its part of the bargain  and after a couple of months  hadnt  been 
able to show it had placed a firm order.
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted the email exchange between Mr L and jhm 
and evidence from the manufacturer that showed  that there were delays in supplying the 
model Mr L sought. He said that the broker couldnt be held responsible  for delays by 
manufacturers. 
He also noted  Mr L had taken a different type of contract with the new supplier and jhm had 
offered to match that but he had refused. He concluded that jhm had been reasonable in 
trying to meet Mr Ls requirements and had returned  his deposit since no car had been  
sourced, but it kept the broker fee for finding finance for him.
Mr L didnt agree and said jhm had fobbed him off on numerous occasions  and it seemed 
that it couldnt deliver at all. He also disagreed that there were  manufacturer  delays since he 
had been able to get multiple offers and had a car delivered around late July. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see there is an apparent conflict between  the evidence that the business  has supplied  
and Mr L being  able to source an identical car directly in early May. I am aware that the 
manufacturer had problems with delivery  times in 2018 and I can see that the car he ordered 
took almost three months to be delivered  after the order. This is a little longer than the time 
he allowed jhm to confirm the order.  
While jhm may not have  been as efficient  as Mr L wanted I do think the delay was primarily 
down to the manufacturer. Also, I see that at one point Mr L wasnt  overly exercised about  a 
Ref: DRN80940702speedy delivery. I gather the deal jhm was able to offer was due to the manufacturer  offering 
particularly good  terms, but Mr L took an alternative  type of finance.
While I have every sympathy with Mr L I consider that jhm arranged  the finance, but was 
unable to obtain the car in the timeframe that ultimately satisfied him and I dont see that it 
should be required to refund it fee for that service.  I accept he had lost patience with the 
business, but it did offer to alter the finance arrangement to match  the alternative offer he 
had obtained and it was open to him to take this route.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision before 
1 September 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8094070