K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complained  about  the way Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with his 
motor insurance claim.
background
In July 2016 Mr Ws car was hit while parked  and unattended. A witness  let him know  
someone had pulled  out of a driveway  opposite and hit his car. She provided the colour of 
the car but not the registration number. There was another witness  nearby but she didnt 
want to get involved  as shed said the driver  of the car was her neighbour. 
Mr W claimed on his policy.  RSA traced  the driver  it thought was involved and contacted her 
insurer. But the other driver said she hadnt been involved in the accident  and it was case  of 
mistaken identity.
In 2018 Mr W complained to RSA about  how long things were taking. RSA said it would pass 
the case to a solicitor  to look at taking the other  driver to court. The solicitor  told RSA they 
didnt think theyd be able to prove  the other driver  was to blame if the case went  to court.  So 
RSA said it wasnt going to pursue the other driver. 
Mr W complained  to RSA. RSA thought its decision was reasonable based on the legal 
advice from the solicitor. However  it accepted  it had caused some  delays before passing the 
case to a solicitor and offered Mr W £100 compensation.
Mr W didnt think  this was enough and brought his complaint to us. He said RSA had 
delayed in dealing  with things and made a number of mistakes. He said the other drivers 
insurer had harassed  his witness which meant  she no longer wanted to help. And he didnt  
think RSA had properly  investigated what had happened.  He said as a result of the claim his 
premiums had increased. He thought £2,000 was a fairer amount of compensation to make 
up for what had gone wrong. Mr W also raised  concerns about the solicitor whod looked at 
his case.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ws complaint on 9 May 2019.  In that decision I said:
In this decision I can only consider what RSA might, or might  not, have  done  wrong.  So I 
cant make  any findings  on the actions of the solicitor or the other drivers insurer. 
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident  as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that the insurer (in this case RSA) has made  a fair and reasonable decision thats in 
line with the terms  and conditions of the policy. 
Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Mr Ws policy give RSA the right to 
take over, defend or settle a claim as it sees fit. This might  mean  RSA makes a decision    
Mr W disagrees with but the policy allows it. Again, I consider  whether its done so fairly and 
reasonably. 
It took two years for RSA to pass Mr Ws information  to a solicitor to consider. When  Mr W 
reported the accident RSA traced  the car it suspected as being  involved quickly and 
contacted that owners insurer. It also sent out a witness  statement  request form. The other 
driver denied  being involved so RSA collected more information from Mr W and continued  to 
try to hold the other driver at fault.  I can see there  was a delay of around  five months before 
Ref: DRN81468822RSA chased the other drivers insurer  and then of another five months  before chasing  the 
insurer again. At this point  RSA said it would look to take the other driver to court  if her 
insurer didnt reply. It passed the file to a solicitor  in early 2018.
Its clear there were  times when RSA could  have done more to chase  the other drivers 
insurer. RSA has accepted there were delays and has offered Mr W £100 compensation. I 
think its fair RSA compensates Mr W for these delays as its reasonable for him to expect 
his insurer to be chasing things. I can see from RSAs claim notes that the other  drivers 
insurer rarely responded to its chasing.  So even  if RSA had chased more  its likely the other 
insurer still wouldnt have responded. I also dont think the delays ultimately led to RSA not 
pursuing the case in court. 
The solicitor  said to recover  the money  from the other driver in court  RSA would need to be 
able to identify  the driver  rather than the car. The solicitor said the witness whod been 
walking her dog had only been able to provide the colour of the car. While RSA had used the 
details provided  to Mr W by someone  who lived locally this meant it only had the details of a 
car and not of a driver. The solicitor said RSA wouldnt  be able to pursue the other driver in 
court as it was unlikely  it would be able to show a judge that it had correctly identified the 
driver. 
I understand Mr Ws witness  initially  completed  the witness  statement but then stopped 
responding after the other drivers insurer got in touch. Mr W feels  RSA may have let the 
other drivers  insurer  contact her and intimidate her. But I havent seen anything to persuade  
me RSA is responsible  for any contact  the other insurer might have had with the witness.  Or 
that she wouldnt have  stopped responding even  if the other drivers insurer  had got in touch 
sooner. In any event  this witness  didnt have the number plate of the car or know  the driver. 
It was the second  witness  who provided  the other drivers address. And she had always 
indicated that she didnt want to be involved which means RSA wouldnt have been able to 
rely on her in court. 
The other drivers insurer provided photographs to show the car hadnt  been in an accident. 
They also said the amount of pre-existing damage to Mr Ws car made it almost impossible 
to check what damage  was likely to have been  caused by the other drivers car. Mr W said 
the other driver had been hiding their car away in the garage, changed the number plates 
and moved away. However the other  drivers insurer said shed bought a cherished  number  
plate for the car. 
I can understand Mr Ws frustration at what happened because his car was damaged in an 
accident that wasnt his fault and someone  identified the driver as their neighbour. But 
ultimately RSA didnt think it would be able to persuade a court it was most likely the other 
driver was to blame  for the accident. Given this was the advice it received from a solicitor I 
think it was reasonable  for it to rely on that advice  and not pursue the other driver. And I 
think its most likely  it would  have reached the same conclusion even if it hadnt caused  any 
delays. 
However I dont think £100  is enough to compensate Mr W for the delays RSA caused. It 
didnt chase the other insurer for five months and only did so when Mr W called to find out 
what was going  on. After  this there  was another five months where RSA didnt chase the 
other insurer and it again  needed Mr W to chase  up his claim. I dont think  these delays are 
reasonable. And while I dont think the delays  made  a difference  to the overall outcome of 
the claim,  Mr W has the distress of thinking  it might  have  done. When  taking account  of 
Ref: DRN81468823other awards  our service makes, I think £250  is a fair and reasonable amount for RSA to pay       
Mr W for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. 
Mr W said his premium has increased as a result of the claim.  But as I dont think  RSA has 
done anything  wrong in not ultimately pursuing  the other driver in court Im not going  to ask it 
to compensate him for that. 
Overall Im satisfied RSAs decision to not pursue the other driver was fair and reasonable 
and in line with the terms and conditions  of the policy. However it should increase the 
compensation to £250. 
RSA didnt reply to my provisional decision.  Mr W still thought  RSAs  delays  had led to his 
claim collapsing.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W hasnt raised  any further points which would lead me to depart from my provisional 
findings. Overall, while  I think RSAs delays caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience, I dont  think  it was likely they made a difference  to the outcome of his claim 
for the reasons Ive set out above.  I remain satisfied that £250 is a fair and reasonable 
amount for RSA to pay him to compensate for that. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr W a total of £250  compensation  for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience it caused him. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ws accepted  my final decision. If it pays 
later than this it should add interest  to the compensation at a rate of 8% simple  per year from 
the date of my final decision  to the date it makes  payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN8146882