K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited (Vanquis) registered a default  against her and 
passed her debt on to a debt recovery agent.  She believes that she provided  Vanquis with 
her updated  address and that Vanquis did not contact her at that address before registering 
the default. She wants the default to be removed from her credit  file and to be allowed to 
settle the debt.  
background
In autumn 2017,  Miss D opened  a credit card account with Vanquis. Her account had a limit 
set of £250. 
Miss D used the card and regularly made  payments into her account for a period. 
In May 2018, when  Miss Ds balance stood close to the account  limit, Miss D made a 
payment by direct debit.  
Around this time, Miss D experienced difficulties in her personal life. She travelled away  from 
home and experienced bereavement.  She also moved home. 
Miss D believes  she updated Vanquis  of her new address at this time.  
Miss Ds payments on her credit card account  stopped, and she incurred default charges, 
over limit charges, and additional interest.  
Vanquis wrote to Miss D at the address it held for her. Vanquis also sent Miss D text 
messages alerting her to the balance and that payments had been missed. 
In September  2018, Vanquis  wrote  to Miss D warning her that a default could be registered 
against her. 
In October  2018, Vanquis passed the debt to a debt collection agency. 
No payment was made into the account and in January  2019,  Vanquis registered a default  
against Miss Ds credit  file. 
Miss D returned from her travels  in February 2018 and later learned  of the default. 
She contacted Vanquis in early March  2018 and advised them that she had moved  home 
and had experienced personal difficulties. She submitted a complaint. 
She then contacted Vanquis around  a week later and found that her address details had not 
been updated.
Vanquis sent Miss D its final response  in April 2019.  It rejected her complaint and explained  
that there  was no evidence that she had updated  her address details in 2018.  Vanquis set 
out that messages had been  sent to the number which Miss D currently  held, and calls had 
been attempted.  It also noted that no payments  had been received since May 2018. 
Miss D was not satisfied  with that response and contacted us. 
Ref: DRN86838142One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. 
This view was that Vanquis  had acted reasonably and had made attempts  to inform Miss D 
of the action it was taking  to pursue the debt. Our investigator therefore considered that the 
default was properly registered and he did not ask Vanquis to remove  it. 
Miss D did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss D has experienced a difficult time over the relevant period including 
issues of poor health, bereavement and travel abroad.  
She has explained that she feels  many  others  would  have found themselves in her situation 
and that she thinks  Vanquis ought to be lenient  in the circumstances. She has also found 
that the default is impacting upon her ability to get credit and thinks that this is 
disproportionate to the amount of debt involved. 
I sympathise with all that Miss D has been through, but our role is to look at whether the 
business acted  fairly  and reasonably in the circumstances. Where a debt is outstanding,  and 
no arrangement has been  made regarding that debt, it is reasonable for Vanquis to pursue 
recovery of the debt, including by passing  the debt to recovery agents. 
In this instance, Vanquis has provided evidence that Miss D was using her credit card up 
until May 2018 and was managing her account  reasonably well until that point, making 
payment by direct debit  and additional  payments to bring  her within  the account limits. 
In May 2018  these  direct debit payments stopped, when  Miss D was around her credit  limit. 
There is no evidence that Miss D contacted Vanquis at the time to explain  her situation or to 
make an arrangement to pay off the debt. Vanquis  has demonstrated that it continued  to 
send updates of her balance by statement and by text message, to the number which  Miss D 
has continued to use. 
Miss D has said that she provided  her new address  to Vanquis in 2018 but that Vanquis 
continued writing  to her previous address. There is no independent evidence of the new 
address being  provided, but in any event, I do not think that Miss D was relying  on 
correspondence through the post to know whether she had a balance or not. 
I think, on the balance of probabilities, that Miss D was aware of her balance from the text 
messages that Vanquis sent to her, and was at the very least aware  that there was an 
outstanding balance on her account.  She ought  to have made efforts  to manage  her debt 
and continue to make her minimum  payments, or to contact Vanquis to explain her 
difficulties if she was unable to do so. 
On the basis that Miss D stopped making  payments, and does not appear to have been in 
touch with Vanquis, I think it was reasonable for Vanquis to treat the debt like any other 
unpaid debt. This includes giving warnings of a default and passing the debt to a debt 
recovery agent. 
Ref: DRN86838143Miss D contacted Vanquis after she returned from her travel  in 2019, by which  time the 
default had been registered  and the debt passed  on. I do not think there was an opportunity  
for Vanquis  to have  exercised  leniency  before the default was registered, and I am not 
critical of Vanquis for this. 
Vanquis is obliged  to provide accurate information  to credit reference agencies  and appears 
to have provided this. I do not think its refusal  to remove the default, which is an accurate 
reflection of the way the account was managed, is unfair. 
That said,  I would expect  Vanquis to be helpful to Miss D if she now makes  enquiries as to 
how to settle the debt and to minimise the further impact of the default. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators  view that Vanquis has not done anything 
wrong, and I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing to 
Miss D but I hope it clearly explains why I have reached this decision. 
my final decision
As set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ds complaint and do not ask Vanquis Bank Limited  
to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683814