K821x#15Complaint
Mr C is unhappy as he says Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly  settled a claim hes made 
on his buildings  insurance policy.
Background
Mr C owns a flat which  he insures  with an Aviva buildings  insurance  policy. The flat is 
occupied by tenants.
In early February 2019, the tenants  reported a water  leak into the flat that had caused  
damage to the bathroom. So, Mr C reported this to Aviva in order to claim on his policy.  
Aviva appointed a loss adjuster to deal with the claim  and it, in turn, appointed  an agent to 
undertake an inspection of the damage and to validate the claim. Following the inspection, 
Aviva accepted the damage was an insured risk and agreed to cover  the claim. 
Aviva then arranged  for a surveyor  to assess what remedial works would be required. 
Following this inspection,  the business  offered £2,322 in settlement of the claim. Additionally, 
it said that as the remedial  works would take fourteen days to complete it would also cover 
one months loss of rent as the flat wouldnt be habitable during this time.
When Mr C pointed out that the loss adjuster had previously offered a higher amount,  Aviva 
agreed to honour  that offer of £3,065. Aviva said it would cover the cost of loss of rent for 
one month.
Mr C wasnt happy with the offer, saying it wasnt enough for him to arrange his own 
contractor to do the work so he asked for Aviva to arrange contractors  to undertake  the 
work, starting the following day. Aviva  didnt have the facility  to arrange contractors within 
Mr Cs timeframe so it decided to make a cash settlement  instead.
Aviva then undertook  a further inspection and made  a further settlement offer to Mr C of 
£3,470 less the policy excess of £100.  It considered this was the correct  offer that would be 
in settlement of its full liability  under  the policy. It said it would  also arrange payment for the 
loss of rent on receipt of the required information.
Mr C remained  unhappy with Avivas  offer and brought his complaint  to this service.  During  
the investigation, Mr C decided to accept Avivas  offer on the understanding he would 
continue to pursue  his complaint with us. Aviva agreed to this and made a settlement 
payment to Mr C for £3,470 less a £100 excess plus an additional £750 for the loss of one 
months rent.
Our investigator looked at the evidence  provided  by both parties  and concluded Avivas offer 
was a fair and reasonable way for it to settle  the claim. She also said she didnt think Aviva 
had caused undue delays in dealing with the claim.
Mr C remained  unhappy and asked  an ombudsman to make a decision on his case.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached the 
same outcome as the consumer and for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN85308492Mr C says this service  considered a complaint  about another  claim he made some years ago 
and it cost Aviva a lot of money. He believes  this has influenced  the way Aviva's  handled this 
claim. He also says Aviva has repeated the same mistakes again.
I acknowledge what Mr C says here but this service considers complaints on their own 
individual merits and investigations are not influenced by historic  claims on unrelated 
incidences. Ive also not seen any evidence that Avivas handling of this claim has been 
influenced by what happened in 2013.
Mr C has made a number of comments about what  he thinks Aviva should have done  under 
the policy including undertaking  additional  work and providing alternative accommodation 
costs. Aviva  is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy and the terms and 
conditions define  what those things are. Thats what the parties are bound  by when they 
enter into the insurance contact. 
So what  I need to do here is decide whether Aviva has acted within  those terms while 
keeping in mind  what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to say how I think a complaint should be
resolved quickly and with minimal formality. When making a decision on this Ill focus on
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. I have thoroughly read all the evidence
submitted by the parties but Ill comment only on those things I consider relevant to the
decision I need to make. That means  I may not comment on some  of the issues raised or
questions asked by Mr C.
Ill deal with what I consider to be Mr Cs main  concerns, in turn.
Poor general service/delays in the claim
Mr C says that Avivas claims handling and customer service  were poor throughout the claim 
and he says they took too long to get things resolved.
In general, insurance  claims, particularly those that require inspections  such as Mr Cs, will 
take some  time. Mr C expected things to be done  more quickly,  but what  I need to consider 
here is whether  the time taken was reasonable given the circumstances.
When considering  the impact of the time Ive also born in mind  that the surveyor  considered  
the property to be habitable  during this time.  I acknowledge Mr C disagrees  with this 
conclusion. But, as our investigator explained,  we take account of evidence  received from 
experts and in this case I place significant evidential weight on the surveyors opinion.  Ive 
not seen anything which has led me to conclude the surveyors conclusion was incorrect.
Mr C reported the leak on 4 February  and Aviva arranged an inspection of the damage  on 7 
February. A written report was provided,  a further  inspection took place  and two settlement 
offers were  made and this happened within ten days of the leak being reported. Mr C wasnt  
happy with these offers and so a period  of correspondence started. 
Mr C accepted Avivas settlement offer on 15 February and Aviva made the payment to him 
on 18 February, two weeks after the claim was first reported.
Ref: DRN85308493Mr C feels he had to push  Aviva  to keep things moving and a number of times  he left 
multiple messages  on a particular day for some  of its representatives which  werent returned 
as quickly as he would have liked. I acknowledge he found this frustrating. 
But given what Ive said about timescales for this kind of claim and comparing that to what 
actually happened  here, Im satisfied, in making  the offer in the time it did, Aviva progressed  
the claim in a reasonable timescale. 
And while Mr C expected Avivas representatives  to call back  more quickly  than they did, Ive 
not seen anything which persuades me they took an unreasonable amount of time to 
respond.
Refusing to supply contractors to do the work
Under the What we will pay section, the terms of the policy  explain how Aviva will settle 
claims 
Settling claims
We can choose to settle  your claim by
replacing 
reinstating
repairing 
payment
When Mr C rejected Avivas, settlement offer he said 
If that is your settlement offer, please  confirm by return that your contractors will 
be on site tomorrow morning to start work  and remain on site until completion
Aviva explained  to Mr C it didnt have the facility to offer a contractor to carry out the work in 
a reasonable time for him and so it offered a cash settlement instead.
Having considered the relevant policy terms detailed above,  making  a payment to settle a 
claim is an option available to Aviva. So, while Mr C may have preferred Aviva to undertake  
the repairs, Im satisfied it hasnt done anything wrong here in choosing  to offer a cash 
settlement instead  particularly bearing  in mind  the timescales Mr C required.
The level of settlement and bullying him into accepting  it
The terms of the policy go on to explain what Aviva will do in the event of a cash settlement:
If we can repair or replace property but agree to make a cash or voucher settlement 
we will only pay you what it would cost us to repair or replace it
Mr C says the settlement  offer Aviva  made  wasnt sufficient to get the work done by using 
his own contractors. He made reference to the claim that happened in 2013 and says the 
costs for the work to replace the bathroom then were significantly higher.
Aviva explained  to Mr C if he thought there  were additional costs involved in the claim or if 
he wished to obtain his own estimate  for the works, he could provide them and it would 
consider them. So, Im satisfied Mr C was offered the opportunity  to supply evidence of 
estimates detailing  alternative  costings  for the work,  but I havent seen anything  which  
shows he did this. 
Ref: DRN85308494Mr C says alternative costings would be available, from Aviva,  for the work  he had 
undertaken under the other claim in 2013. He says the work was exactly the same  as the 
work required under this latest claim. But Im not persuaded  that costings from that claim 
about an unrelated incident would provide useful or accurate information about costings on 
this work  six or seven  years later.
I know Mr C has also expressed concerns about  the agent  that provided  Aviva with costing 
information, claiming that it is owned by Aviva. He makes a number of accusations  about its 
conduct and business practices. 
Hes reported his concerns to the Financial Conduct Authority and the Serious Fraud Office. 
I dont consider it appropriate for me to comment on these accusations  and will leave it to the 
two authorities to comment if they see fit. But I havent seen any evidence to substantiate  Mr 
Cs claims or to show it did anything other than provide unbiased  costing information  as Id 
expect.
On 15 February, Mr C asked our investigator  to let Aviva know  he accepted  its settlement 
offer. He made it clear that he intended to continue  with his complaint  against Aviva through  
this service. Aviva made the payment to Mr C a couple of days  later, in the knowledge he 
intended to continue with his complaint.
From the evidence submitted, Ive not seen anything which persuades me Aviva bullied Mr C 
into accepting the settlement  offer,  although I acknowledge he sees it differently. But even  if 
I did agree  with Mr C, I cant see this has negatively impacted him given his complaint  has 
still been considered by this service.
Refusing to pay for tenants alternative accommodation
The terms of Mr Cs policy explain how Aviva will deal with loss of rent and alternative 
accommodation.  Under the Buildings  Section of the policy, it explains what is covered:
Loss of rent and the cost of alternative  accommodation
If we have accepted a claim for damage  to the home  and the damage means your 
home cant be lived in, we will pay:
a.ground rent you still have to pay;
b.rent payable to you, or (if not otherwise insured) reasonable additional 
accommodation expenses your tenant has to pay;
c.any reasonable additional  accommodation expenses  for you and your 
domestic animals
up to the limit shown  on your schedule, until the home is ready  to live in
I know Mr C has interpreted the first line of this to mean Aviva will pay loss of rent and 
alternative accommodation but my interpretation  of this is different. I think its clear this line is 
actually a heading and not part of the detail  explaining how claims will be settled. The line in 
question is in bold type which is how the other  headings in various What is covered? 
sections are detailed.  
Mr C has also interpreted part c. as relating to his tenants but Im satisfied  the you  referred  
to in this clause relates to him as the policyholder, not to his tenants.  This is made clear in 
the Definitions  section of the policy. This is also common term across  policies of this 
nature.
Ref: DRN85308495Im satisfied under part b. of the term above, Aviva was required to pay the loss of rent or 
alternative accommodation costs. I think it was up to Aviva to decide which of these to do 
and theres nothing in the term which suggests otherwise. Im not persuaded  Avivas  done 
anything wrong  in not paying both.
Avivas agent estimated  the remedial work would take approximately  fourteen days  to 
complete. It said Mr Cs tenants would have  to move out as the bathroom would be out of 
use for that time. Because of this, Aviva  agreed  to pay Mr C £750 for the loss of one months  
rent.
Mr C considered the property uninhabitable  from the time the damage occurred and he says 
costs should have been paid from this time until the remedial work  was completed. For 
reasons Ive explained earlier though, I dont agree with this and Im satisfied, on the balance 
of probability, the property  would have only been uninhabitable  only while the work was 
going on. And as the estimate for this was two weeks,  it seems  reasonable for Aviva to cover  
the loss of one months rent.
In summary,  I wont be asking Aviva to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8530849