K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about a term assurance  policy they took out following advice 
from Bank of Scotland plc.
background
Mr and Mrs H met with Bank of Scotland twice in late 1996.  At the time they were arranging 
mortgage of £66,000 over a term of twenty five years. At the time of the sale they were 
married and had three dependent  children. The mortgage was in joint names.
The financial  questionnaire  completed at the time of the sale recorded that protection for 
their mortgage was their priority and the notes section also confirmed that they wanted 
protection in the event of their death  and didnt  want any debt remaining on death.
They were  sold a decreasing term assurance  policy, with waiver  of premium  benefit, which  
matched the amount and term of the mortgage they were applying  to take out.
When Mr and Mrs H initially complained  they thought the policy  was a payment protection  
policy (PPI). When they were told the policy was a life cover policy they said they were 
pressured into taking  the policy and were  also told they had to have it to be granted the 
mortgage they were  applying  for. They also complained they didnt need  the policy because 
they had ample  cover  through their employers.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  She 
was of the view that given  Mr and Mrs Hs personal  and financial circumstances  the policy 
was suitable for them.  She also couldnt find any evidence that they were pressured into 
taking out the policy  or that they were told they had to take it to get the mortgage they 
wanted. She also explained  that while they did have  good benefits through  their employer 
there was no guarantee this would remain forever as people  can always change jobs. So 
such benefits are not usually considered  as sufficient  protection for any borrowing being 
taken out.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with the assessment  and remained of the view the policy had 
been mis-sold. They reiterated their point that they were pressured  into taking the policy.  
They also said they were  unsure about taking the policy when the adviser recommended but 
were ignored  when they explained this to the adviser.
The investigator considered their points but remained  of the view the complaint couldnt  be 
upheld. So as no agreement  could be reached the complaint has been passed  to me to 
review.
Ref: DRN88528222 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Bank of Scotland has confirmed that taking the policy was not a condition  of the mortgage 
Mr and Mrs H were applying for. So while I obviously dont know what was said to them in 
the sales meeting  about this I cant safely conclude they were told it was condition  of the 
lending. I think its unlikely  the adviser  would  have said this if this wasnt the case.  Any 
conditions of a mortgage are set out on the mortgage conditions  document  so there  would 
be no reason for the adviser  to mis-represent information knowing that the reality of the 
situation would be documented.  
Also, Mr and Mrs H have said they were  unsure  about  taking  the policy when it was 
recommended to them. But if they were  told it was a condition  of the lending then 
Mr and Mrs H would  have just had to accept they had to take the policy  rather  than be in a 
position to question taking it.
I also cant see any evidence that Mr and Mrs H were pressured into taking the policy.  I dont  
disbelieve what they have said but for me to be able to uphold  the complaint  on this point 
I would need evidence to support they were pressured and they have provided nothing  apart 
from what they have  said. Its also worth pointing that Mr and Mrs H met with the adviser a 
couple of times over the course  of about a month  so given this its hard for me to conclude  
they were pressured  because  they would have had some  time to think  about the policy  and 
make up their minds.
Turning now to the suitability of the complaint, I think, given Mr and Mrs H circumstances, 
the policy was suitable for them and was a good  idea to take out.
They were  taking on a significant liability and were  married with three dependent children. 
This meant that should  one of them pass away during the term of the mortgage the 
remaining family could  be in a difficult position in relation to finding a way of paying  the 
mortgage. With no way to discharge  this liability the property could have to be sold quickly, 
potentially at a loss in value, as a way of finding  the means to repay the mortgage in full. 
Whereas, with this policy in place  had one of them passed away  a lump sum payment would 
be made which could  be used by the remaining family to discharge the entirety  of the liability 
without having  to struggle to find a way to do this at a time which would undoubtedly be 
difficult.
Ultimately the policy was designed to protect people  left behind upon the policy holders  
death and given there were people that needed this protection I think the policy was of use 
to them.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs H had benefits through their employer but the policy provided a 
dedicated source of money to discharge the liability freeing up the benefits provided through 
their employers to be used for other  means  the family might  require. Also the amount of 
cover through the employer may not have  been  enough to meet  the outstanding liability  that 
needed to be discharged.  So this would still leave the family in a potentially difficult  position. 
Ref: DRN88528223As well as this, benefits through an employer  arent  really considered to be sufficient 
protection for liabilities such as mortgages  and loans because  there  is usually no guarantee 
that people remain  in the same job for as long as the term of the mortgage.  I know Mr and 
Mr H have argued that they were very unlikely to change jobs again but Im afraid  this isnt 
enough for me to be satisfied their benefits  through their employer were  enough  to negate  
the need for the life protection  policy.
Mr and Mrs H have also queried the waiver of premium  benefit that was attached to the 
policy. To clarify, a waiver of premium is a provision that allows the insured not to pay 
premiums during a period of disability that has lasted for a particular length of time.  Usually 
the premium will be waived for at least six months after the insured has been totally disabled 
for at least six months. Again, I know Mr and Mrs H feel they didnt need this because  of the 
cover they received through  their employer but I think this benefit  would have  been  useful for 
them and also I am satisfied that given how clear it was on the policy schedule they were 
fully aware of what they were taking out when they did.
Overall, while  I appreciate the comments Mr and Mrs H have made  and how strongly they 
feel about this policy being mis-sold I can see no reason for this. In my view the policy was 
suitable given  their personal  and financial circumstances.  They  had family who would be 
affected by their deaths if this happened during the term of the mortgage so the policy would 
have been of use to them if this situation  arose.
I therefore cant say that Bank of Scotland has done anything  wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8852822