complaint
Mr J complains about the failure by Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (SDFCL)  to 
record a default  on his credit file.
background
I set out the background  to Mr Js complaint in my provisional decision.  In it, I also explained 
why I was not intending to uphold Mr Js complaint.  Ill summarise what I said about these 
points in my provisional  decision, so that the relevant information is in this one document.
Mr J opened his home shopping  credit  account with SDFCL  in 2007. He started  to encounter  
financial difficulties in 2012, his account went into arrears  and he entered  into a debt 
management plan (DMP). He says SDFCL sold his account to a third party  business  that Ill 
call Business A in December 2012. He argues SDFCL shouldve recorded a default on his 
credit file at that time.
Mr J continued in his DMP with Business A. In June 2014, it recorded a default against him; 
this will remain  on his credit report until June 2020. Mr J argues SDFCL shouldve  recorded a 
default on his credit file in December 2012,  when it sold his account to Business A. Had they 
done so, the default wouldve been removed at the end of 2018. He feels this has unfairly 
extended the time this has remained on his credit file. He asks that the default be applied by 
SDFCL and backdated to 2012.
Our investigator initially  didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. She concluded that as Mr J was in a 
DMP with SDFCL, it did not have to register the arrangement as a default. But after further 
submissions, she changed  her view. She found the sale of the debt to Business A, after Mr 
J had been in an arranged DMP for 6 months sufficient to suggest there had been a 
relationship breakdown between SDFCL and Mr J. On that basis, she concluded a default  
should have been applied  in December 2012,  when Mr Js account was sold to Business  A., 
as that wouldve  been an accurate reflection of the account.
In her view SDFCL should record a default  in respect of the debt from the date it was sold.  
Consequently, Business  A should  amend the date it applied  a default from June 2014 to the 
same date in December 2012.
Ref: DRN8400824SDFCL disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. It said it didnt sell Mr Js account 
due to a breakdown in relationship, as the relationship hadnt broken down which was 
reflective of the commitment he was showing to his DMP at the time. It said it was 
supporting Mr J through a period of financial difficulties. And it said this was a more  
favourable outcome for him at that time.
SDFCL also said it made  a business decision to pass  the account to Business A without 
the need for a default. And it said the default  was applied by Business A in June 2014, as 
Mr J didnt adhere to his DMP, by missing payments.
In the first provisional decision, an ombudsman disagreed with the investigators  view. He 
didnt agree this complaint should  be upheld.
He said Mr J had accrued arrears in his payments to SDFCL in 2012. But he could also 
see he entered  into a DMP and appeared to be adhering to the agreed terms of the DMP 
when SDFCL sold his account to Business A in December 2012.
After careful consideration, he concluded  it was more likely the relationship between the 
parties hadnt broken down at the relevant time.  And that SDFCLs decision not to record  a 
default was motivated at least in part by a wish to avoid if possible taking a step that 
wouldve been likely to increase Mr Js financial difficulties. He didnt agree the sale of Mr Js 
account automatically meant the relationship had broken down  as the account was sold as a 
DMP and Mr J remained within the DMP for some time before Business A applied  a default 
to Mr Js account in 2014. And so he didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
SDFCL agreed with the findings of the first provisional decision.
Mr J disagreed. He argues, in summary that the first provisional  decision fails to take account 
of ICO guidelines. He feels very strongly  SDFCL  should have applied the default when he 
entered into the DMP, as he was in arrears.  He argues this is an accurate reflection of his 
account. If it isnt, he says, then why was it acceptable to apply a default 2 years  later,  when 
he remained  in the same DMP.
Unfortunately, the ombudsman who carried out the first provisional decision was unavailable 
and so I looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. In the interest  of 
fairness, I issued a second provisional  decision to allow both parties the opportunity  to 
comment.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  I looked  at all the information provided by both parties 
afresh. Having done so, I explained I didnt intend  to uphold this complaint.
I considered relevant law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards and 
codes of practice; and, where  appropriate what I consider to be good industry practice  at the 
time.
I explained where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of 
it is here I have to base my decision  on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say, what I 
think is more likely  to have happened  or be the case given the circumstances.
I can understand why Mr Js unhappy that he still has a default  showing on his credit file in 
respect of this debt. If, as he argues, the default  had been  applied in 2012 by SDFCL,  it
Ref: DRN8400824wouldve been removed  by the end of 2018.  What I have to decide is whether  SDFCL did 
anything wrong  in not recording  a default in December 2012.
I said its important to say at the outset that Im solely looking at the actions of SDFCL, and 
whether or not they have  acted unfairly towards Mr J. Im not reaching any decision about 
the actions taken by Business A, although  I may refer to them  in this decision.
Cred it Reference Agencies (CRAs) hold databases of debts and payments on products 
offered to consumers and businesses that relate to financial commitments.  These will 
include credit agreements such as mortgages, loans, credit cards or current acco unts, and 
comm itments such as telephone agreements, energy and water utilities.
The provider shares information with CRAs about the limits, balances and how these 
agreements are managed. They in turn can provide a copy of the credit reference file to 
other organisatio ns to be used by them to help make decisions about a c o n s u m e r o r a c 
o n s u m e r s business (if they have one). The credit reference file may only be used for 
agreed and specific purposes.
Lenders that supply data to the (CRAs) are required to ensure that the data is accurate, 
up to date and meets agreed quality standards. The types of product that are reported all 
relate to forms  of credit, but the features of one product type may be very different to 
another.
Rules are in place  to ensure that arrears information  from different providers, but on the 
same product type, has the same  or a similar  meaning. Rules are also in place to require 
that the reporting  of information on different products be provided in such  a way as to 
mean the same, irrespective of type.
The Financial Conduct Authority regulates the operation of CRAs in the UK but the day-to- 
day activities are governed  by several laws that cover aspects of credit referencing such 
as:
 The Data Protection Act
 The Representation of the People Act
 The Consume r Credit Act
 The Compani es Act
However,  the  main  legislation  is  the  Data  Protectio n  Act  1998  and  the  regulator  is 
the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).
In the ICO Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defa ults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, Principle 3 with regard to if a consumer makes  an offer or reduced  
payment it says:
If, due to financial difficulty, your lender agrees a reduced or revised payment with you, 
this will be reflected on your credit file. How revised or reduced payments are shown 
on your credit file will depend on whether it is a tempo rary or permanent change to the 
agreemen t. The account may or may not be in arrears at the time of the change.
Should the lender agree a permanent change in the payment terms, there will normally 
be a new agreement signed and the revised terms will be reported going forward.
Ref: DRN8400824This may mean that a new limit, acco unt and/or term is shown on your credit file and 
performance will be reported against that going forward.
As long as you compl y with the revised terms, arrears will not accrue further or be 
shown although any arrears reported under the previous terms will stay on your credit 
file.
Under Principle  4, it also says:
If you fall into arrears on your account, or you do not keep  to the revised terms of an 
arrangemen t, a default may be recorded to show that the relationship has broken down.
As a general guide, this may occur when you are 3 months in arrears, and normally by 
the time, you are 6 months in arrears.
There are exceptions to this which may result in a default being recorded at a later 
stage, such as secured or long term loans e.g. mortgages, or if the product operates 
in a more flexible way e.g. current acco unts, student loans, home credit.
SDFCL agreed to reduce  repayments in the form of a DMP and Mr J maintained those 
payments. It said the relationship between it and Mr J hadnt broken down and it says this 
reflected the commitment  he was showing to his DMP at the time. SDFCL  also explained that it 
was supporting Mr J through a period of financial difficulties. I said from what  Id seen there  
was no requirement  on SDFCL to report a default  as it had willingly entered into an 
arrangement and Mr J was maintaining the agreement.  SDFCL  went  on to say it was a more  
favourable outcome for him at that time.
I said I accepted that the decision to sell an account  to a third party  could be seen  as 
breakdown in the relationship between the parties, if for example, there  was no arrangement 
in place or communication had broken down between the parties. But I couldnt see any 
evidence this was the case here, so I think it was fair and reasonable for SDFCL,  in the 
circumstances, not to apply a default, as both parties were clearly  trying to come to some 
arrangement to allow him to continue to pay off his debt.
I noted the terms and conditions of Mr Js credit agreement with SDFCL say under further 
terms and conditions:
8. If we temporarily  relax any terms of this agreement e.g. allowing you more  time to pay, we 
may strictly enforce them again at any time
And
9. We may transfer our own rights and liabilities and your liabilities under this agreement  to 
any third party.
So, I said I was satisfied SDFCL had the right to sell Mr Js account  in 2012 to Business  A.
Once SDFCL sold Mr Js account, Business A became the legal owner of the outstanding  
liabilities. It seems Mr J continued to maintain the arrangement  until sometime  in 2014 
when Business A, and not SDFCL, notified the CRAs, that his account had defaulted.
Ref: DRN8400824K820x#14As Business A registered the default  in 2014, I said I couldnt reasonably ask it to 
backdate the default  based on whether SDFCL should or shouldnt  have registered an 
earlier default. I said I was further  persuaded that as Mr J was maintaining an agreed 
arrangement with SDFCL  in 2012, there was no requirement on it to register a default at 
that time.
I said from what Id seen  SDFCL acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr J. Understanding, 
he was experiencing financial difficulties it agreed to a reduced payment plan, and as such  
was under no regulatory requirement to record a default. Mr J had been  in the arrangement  
for 3-6 months when  SDFCL decided to transfer his account to Business A. As an 
arrangement was in place  and was being maintained  by Mr J, on balance, I said I found the 
decision to sell Mr Js account to be more likely a business decision, and one SDFCL  was 
within its rights to take, rather  than an indication the relationship  between  the parties  had 
broken down.
I said I understood Mr J will be disappointed but based on what Ive seen I dont  think  
SDFCL did anything wrong in not applying a default to his account in 2012  and so I said I 
dont intend to uphold his complaint.
I invited both parties to respond to my provision decision.
SDFCL accepted my provisional decision.
Mr J had no further comment  to make.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive not received any new information in 
response to my provisional  decision or any comments on my reasoning and findings. It 
follows that Ive reached the same conclusions for the same  reasons as I did in my 
provisional decision and which  I set out above again.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 18 
January 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8400824