K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about errors made  by Santander UK Plc in the administration  of his 
mortgage account and about  Santanders  handling  of his complaint. He wants  Santander to 
compensate him for loss of interest  and to pay compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
background 
The background to this complaint can be summarised briefly, because  whats happened  isnt 
in dispute. 
Mr H has a mortgage account with Santander. In February 2019  he wanted to pre-pay his 
mortgage. Mr H was told by Santander that he could deposit a sum into a savings account, 
that this would be linked to the mortgage, and his mortgage interest would be offset from the 
savings interest. Mr H placed £56,000  into the savings account,  expecting that the offset  
interest rate would be 1.24%.  Part of the funds, about £28,000, had come from a building 
society account, and the remainder had come from an account Mr H held with Santander.
Unfortunately the information Mr H had been  given was incorrect;  his mortgage account 
couldnt be offset in this way. Santander  instead  used  the money in the account to reduce 
the capital on the mortgage account.  On receiving  written confirmation of the reduction,  Mr H 
immediately raised  this with Santander and the transaction was reversed.  
The funds that had come  from Santander were returned to his Santander account.  The funds 
from the building society were returned  to it, but not to the original account. 
Mr H complained, not only about Santanders  mistake but about the way Santander had 
dealt with his complaint.  Santander offered compensation  totalling £234, representing loss of 
interest (calculated at 8% p.a. simple) and including compensation for trouble and upset of 
£105.
Dissatisfied with this, Mr H brought  his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint and, in three detailed letters, he explained that he 
thought Santander should pay an additional  £100 for trouble and upset, making  a total 
amount of compensation of £334. Santander agreed this was fair.
Mr H didnt accept the investigators findings.  In summary, he says that Santander should 
offer him 2% on £50,000 with one withdrawal with no penalty.  Mr H says that on a second  
withdrawal he has lost the 2% rate for the anniversary of the rate. 
Mr H says that, whilst  he appreciates the limitations  of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service, 
he is increasingly of the opinion  that the Financial Ombudsman Service is systematically 
under-compensating retail  clients due to the inability to understand the facets  of retail 
products and loss suffered when institutions  refuse  to provide a like-for-like product.  As a 
retail investor Mr H says hes had to engage  with the Financial Ombudsman Service without 
legal representation or financial  advice,  whilst  Santander has access to legally- and 
financially-trained people and use the process to get customers  to prejudice any legal 
position they may have. The banks are using  the Financial Ombudsman  Service to rip 
people off. 
Ref: DRN85644982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents.  Ive 
read everything, and its apparent that some  parts of the evidence  are less relevant  to the 
underlying case  than others.  Consequently Ive, summarised events in rather  less detail than 
has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact  on the 
broader outcome.
In addition, I have  to take care not to include in my decision any information that might 
identify Mr H. Whats happened isnt in dispute, so there is no need for me to rehearse the 
facts here in detail. Ive read the investigators  three letters sent to Mr H and Santander in 
which he set out his opinion on the complaint,  and the events are clear from these, and from 
the correspondence from Mr H and from Santander.  I wont repeat them  here.
Ive noted everything  Mr H has said about what he perceives to be systemic failings both by 
Santander and in relation  to the operation  of the Financial Ombudsman Service. We arent  
the financial regulator, and Ive noted  Mr H has said he will raise with the regulator his 
concerns about  Santander.  I wont comment any further on this, as its not within my remit.
Likewise, although  I note Mr H is unhappy at the way Santander dealt with his complaint, I 
must explain that complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity. This means its not an activity  
that falls within our rules. So although  Ive noted  Mr Hs dissatisfaction  at the way Santander 
dealt with his complaint,  its not something  I can consider here.
Santander has accepted it made a mistake when  it told Mr H he could offset  interest on his 
mortgage when  he could not. Once the error was identified, the transaction was unwound. 
This means  that I dont need to analyse  whats happened and decide if Santander is at fault; 
the only issue I have  to decide  is what compensation is fair and reasonable. 
The building society account allows one free withdrawal  during the account  year without 
losing the benefit of a higher interest  rate. Mr H says that, by withdrawing the funds from the 
building society account in February  2019,  he lost the benefit of making  one free withdrawal 
per annum.  Mr H says he should be compensated for this loss. 
But there would only have been an actual  loss if Mr H had made a second withdrawal and 
actually lost the interest rate during  the account  year. He has provided no evidence that he 
made a second  withdrawal during  that period or that he, in fact, lost the interest  rate.
Mr H also thinks  that the interest he is claiming should be calculated using a Black and 
Scholes model which  can be used to price options on interest  rates as well as stocks and 
shares. I disagree with Mr Hs arguments. The interest rate applied to calculate loss of 
interest both in court (pursuant to the County Courts  Act 1984  and the Senior Courts Act 
Ref: DRN856449831981) and by the Financial Ombudsman Service is 8% simple per annum.  In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Santander has done anything wrong in applying  interest  at that 
rate.
Mr H is also unhappy at the level of compensation offered for trouble and upset. Having 
looked at everything  thats happened and the timescale involved (ten days),  Im satisfied the 
additional amount of compensation offered  for trouble and upset  a further £100 on top of 
the £105 already paid  is proportionate,  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. I can assure Mr H that Ive given 
careful consideration to all his arguments. But overall Im satisfied that Santanders  
calculation of interest is in line with what it is required to do. Im also satisfied its offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Given his concerns about the way in which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates,  I 
must explain that Mr H is under no obligation to accept this final decision. If he rejects my 
final decision, Mr H will be free to pursue his grievances against  Santander  in court,  should  
he wish to do so. Mr H may want to take legal  advice before embarking on any legal 
proceedings.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in addition to the reimbursement of interest and compensation for 
distress and inconvenience already paid (a total of £234) Santander UK Plc must also pay 
Mr H a further £100 for trouble and upset. I make no other order  or award.
This decision marks the end of our consideration of this complaint. This means  well be 
unable to enter into any further discussion  about  its merits.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8564498