K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that National Westminster Bank Plc closed her account and applied  a
CIFAS marker  against  her name. CIFAS  is the UKs  fraud alert service.
background
Miss B opened her NatWest account  in 2010.  In July 2015 a payment of over £17,000 was 
made to it. That money was then moved  to other  accounts in a series  of online payments.
A few days  after the payment to Miss Bs account, NatWest was contacted  by another  bank, 
saying the transfer had been fraudulent. In August NatWest closed Miss Bs account and 
placed a CIFAS marker against  her name.
Miss B complained to the bank in about November 2018. NatWest  wouldnt however agree 
to remove the CIFAS  marker.
Miss B complained to this service and one of our investigators considered her complaint. He 
noted that neither Miss B nor the bank had been able to provide  much detail about what 
happened. The bank hadnt kept complete records from 2015. But the investigator thought 
that NatWest ought to have been able to show why it logged the CIFAS marker  and closed 
the account; it couldnt do that. And he noted too that CIFAS  guidelines  explicitly  said that a 
business placing a marker should be able to show that the evidence was such  that the 
matter could be reported to the police. He recommended that the CIFAS  marker be 
removed.
NatWest didnt accept  the investigators finding  and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different  conclusion  from that reached by the 
investigator, issued  a provisional decision. I noted  that the information I had about the 
complaint was limited,  since  it was some years before  Miss B had complained and because 
her account  had been closed. 
In summary,  I concluded that the money  paid into Miss Bs had been fraudulent. That wasnt  
of itself evidence  that she had been  involved in any wrongdoing, but I thought that whoever 
paid the money  into her account must have known that they would be able to withdraw  it. 
Given the steps needed to do that, I thought it likely that Miss B knew more  about the 
£17,000 that had passed through her account  than she had said.  
I said that I wasnt minded  to require the bank  to take any steps to resolve Miss Bs 
complaint.    
I invited both parties  but in particular Miss B  to make further submissions before  I 
reached a final decision.  
Miss B said that she hadnt waited three years to raise this issue  with NatWest. She said she 
contacted the bank  as soon as she found  out about  the incident,  but that it did nothing to 
assist. She also repeated  that she had nothing  to do with the payment.       
Ref: DRN88090222my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, my main concern in this case was that Miss B hadnt explained how 
anyone could have  gained access to her account to transfer the money away from it. She 
sent us a screenshot of a message  from someone saying theyd found her card and that she 
kept a note of PINs and passwords on her wardrobe. I wasnt  persuaded that either of these, 
if true, would have  enabled a fraudster to access her bank  account.  
I also noted that Miss B said shed changed  her address several times, but that the account 
address was the same as that which  several years later  shed provided to this service. 
In her response to my provisional  decision Miss B didnt address these points, and so I 
havent changed my view.  I think NatWest was justified in placing the CIFAS marker in the 
way it did. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further 
steps to resolve  Miss Bs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Miss B to accept or reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8809022