K820x#14complaint
Ms N has complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2001.
background
The policy was taken  out in a meeting at the same time that Ms N was taking out a further 
advance on her mortgage.
Our adjudicator did not consider that the policy had been mis-sold. However, Bank of 
Scotland did make an offer of £50 to Ms N to reflect the level of service  it provided when 
looking into this complaint.
On her behalf, Ms Ns daughter disagreed with these findings. She has questioned whether 
Halifax made it clear to Ms N that she had a choice about taking out the policy,  and whether 
Ms N then agreed to take it out. Ms Ns daughter has also highlighted that Ms N had a pre-
existing medical condition, and she has commented that these are generally excluded  under 
PPI policies. She considers that Ns N was not provided with sufficiently clear  information to 
allow her to make an informed choice about the policy.
Ms Ns daughter has also said that despite her requesting that correspondence about the 
complaint be sent to her only, Bank of Scotland continued to write directly  to Ms N, causing 
her distress.  She also says that Bank  of Scotland failed  to provide her with the information  
she requested. Ms Ns daughters view is that the offer made  by Bank  of Scotland of £50 is 
inadequate to reflect the difficulties caused to both her and her mother.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ns case.
Ms N has stated that she does not recall PPI being mentioned when she took out her further 
mortgage advance  in late 2000. She has said that she assumes  she was pressured  into 
taking out the PPI policy. Clearly I cannot know for certain what was said to Ms N by Halifax  
at this time.  I am also mindful  that the meeting that occurred took place a number of years 
ago, in my view making it more difficult to recall in detail.
Bank of Scotland has been  able to provide a copy of the PPI application form that was 
signed by Ms N. This included responses  to various  questions about Ms Ns circumstances, 
including her health and employment status. Bank of Scotland has also forwarded  a letter 
sent to Ms N in December  2000  about  her further mortgage advance. This stated that, 
amongst other things,  the adviser had given Ms N information about PPI and its cost.  A 
quotation for a further advance also included the potential  cost of PPI within  it.
In my view, the fact that Ms N had to sign a separate application form for the PPI indicates 
that it is more likely than not that she was made aware PPI was an optional  product. As Ms 
N signed this form, on balance she appears  to have agreed to take PPI out. I have carefully 
considered Ms Ns description  of the meeting that took place when the policy  was sold.  
However, based on the documentary evidence provided, on balance I consider it more  likely 
Ref: DRN86988172than not that PPI was presented as an optional product to Ms N, and that she chose to take 
it out.
Bank of Scotland accepts that it advised  Ms N to take out PPI. It therefore  had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was suitable. It also had to give clear, fair and 
not misleading information  about  the PPI so that Ms N could  make  a properly informed 
choice.
Having looked  at Ms Ns circumstances  when the policy  was sold, my view is that it was 
suitable for her for the following reasons:
Ms N has confirmed  her employee benefits available  to her at the time when she took 
out the policy. She has also stated that her family could have assisted her with the 
mortgage repayments if she wasnt working.  However, it seems to me that Ms N wouldnt 
have been able to guarantee getting  such assistance from her family at an unknown date 
in the future.
Even taking into account her employee benefits, bearing in mind the importance of 
maintaining mortgage  repayments, my view is that PPI did provide a useful benefit to Ms 
N if she was unable  to work because of disability or unemployment. The policy would  
have paid a benefit  for up to 24 months  in the event of a successful claim. Overall  I 
consider the policy  was suitable for Ms N as a means of protection over and above  her 
existing provision at this time.
Ms N has confirmed  that she had an existing medical  condition  when she took the policy  
out. However, the policy terms  do not exclude claims relating to existing conditions. 
Consequently my view is that Ms Ns condition did not make  the recommendation to take 
the policy out unsuitable for her.
Ms N was eligible  for the cover, and it seems wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
main things  not covered by the policy that might  make it unsuitable for her.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
There might  have been other areas  in which Halifax didnt give Ms N as much  information as 
it should have  done. But for the same  reasons  that Ive decided  the policy  was suitable,  my 
view is that better information would not have put her off taking out the PPI. My conclusion  is 
that the policy was not mis-sold.
Ms Ns daughter has highlighted the poor service  she and her mother received from Bank of 
Scotland in the course of pursuing this complaint.  Bank of Scotland  has accepted that it did 
not handle the complaint as well as it should have done, and it has offered £50 
compensation to reflect  this. I agree  that Bank of Scotland should have handled this matter 
better, including  not writing to Ms N about the complaint when instructed not to. Overall 
however, my view is that the £50 offer is on balance appropriate to reflect the upset that 
Bank of Scotland caused Ms N and her daughter.
Because I do not consider  the policy was mis-sold, Bank of Scotland  doesnt need  to refund 
everything Ms N paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Ms N back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Ms N now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN86988173my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part, and require Bank  of Scotland Plc to pay Ms N £50 for the 
upset it caused  her when  dealing  with her complaint (if this has not already been paid).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8698817