K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The sale initially took place over the phone.  Mr C was then sent an application form to 
check and sign.  This indicated that he had requested  PPI during the call. But it still 
required him to tick a box and sign next to it to specifically  confirm  he still wanted the PPI. 
So, if he hadnt  requested it or had since changed his mind, he couldve  made  this clear 
on the form and declined to take the PPI. Because  of this, I think Bank of Scotland made 
it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. Although I 
can understand why he cant  remember this given how long ago it was. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr C, so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think  that it was. 
For example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need for it. And while he had some  sick pay through his work, 
the PPI wouldve  paid out on top of this and for longer  than his guaranteed  sick pay. He 
had private health insurance and death  in service cover, but those wouldnt have paid his 
credit card if hed simply been  off work  sick or made  redundant. So they wouldnt  have  
made the PPI unsuitable.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about  that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C and his representatives have said. But these points dont 
change my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN86178062The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617806