K821x#15Complaint
This complaint relates to a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy  sold to Mr 
and Mrs T at the end of 1999. It seems  only Mr T was covered on the policy  even though it 
was a joint mortgage. The policy was cancelled in 2003.
Santander UK PLC is now responsible for answering the complaint, so to keep things 
consistent, Ill mainly refer to Santander  throughout this decision.
Background
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told the parties it ought to be 
upheld. Santander  disagreed and asked for it to be passed for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
It seems  Mr and Mrs Ts joint mortgage was taken out in 1992.  Despite Mr T saying hes 
sure he had MPPI from the beginning of the mortgage, no records  of such  a policy could be 
found and he hasnt been able to show that such a policy existed from 1992 onwards. 
Santander also showed me screenshots  of the searches  it carried out which  indicate that 
Mr T didnt  actually buy any MPPI  until 1999, when he and Mrs T borrowed more money on 
their existing mortgage.
Mr T says he was self-employed at the time of the 1999 sale.  And we know that self-
employed people  had a substantially higher threshold to achieve when seeking to make an 
unemployment claim under the policy rules. These rules said people like Mr T would need 
to be declared as financially insolvent, which means he wouldnt have  been  able to work 
through a temporary downturn in business  or similar situation,  without taking  significant  
measures with the regard to his business.
These onerous policy measures were  most  probably never pointed out to Mr T during the 
sale process. I think if they had, Mr T would have considered the MPPI a waste of money. 
Businesses selling this type of cover were under a duty to make sure the policy was 
explained in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading, as well as pointing  out important 
features, such as the one described. I think Santander failed in this regard.
Santander says Mr T was employed, not self-employed.  But it has provided  only very weak  
information to support  this and it has no documentation form the sale. Mr T, on the other 
hand, has provided documentary evidence of his self-employment status to me.
I therefore dont  need to go into any more  details because Santander failed in its duty to 
clearly explain the policy. Its been disappointing that Santander has taken so long with this 
complaint and Im sure this will have  been  frustrating for Mr T. 
Ref: DRN88376182What Santander  should  do to put matters right 
Santander should put Mr and Mrs T in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. It should:
Pay the amount  they paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs T made  a successful claim under the MPPI policy, Santander can take off 
what Mr T got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Santander to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr and Mrs T a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and direct  Santander UK PLC to pay the compensation 
outlined above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8837618