K822xcomplaint
Ms H complains about the charges  and interest  Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) applied  to her 
account since inception.  She complains these charges have put her in a worse  financial 
position and caused her considerable distress.  
background
Ms H had an account with an agreed  overdraft of around £4,000. As a result  of the type of 
account, BOS applied charges an interest  for a number of years while Ms H was overdrawn. 
In 2017 Ms H notified the bank that she was in financial difficulties, and shortly after this, the 
bank stopped applying charges and interest  to the account. 
In January 2019 Ms H complained. She said the charges and interest which  had been 
applied to her account  had unlawfully deprived  her of access  to the benefits she was 
receiving. And she said that she was experiencing financial difficulties which had been 
caused by the banks  charges. 
In July 2019 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
Ive very carefully considered the detailed points Ms H has made to the investigator.  I hope  
she doesnt take it as a discourtesy when  I dont reply to every point that she has raised.  The 
purpose of my decision isnt to do that  its to set out my conclusions and reasons for 
reaching them. 
And in this case, Im sorry to say that I dont agree with Ms H that BOS  should refund her all 
the charges she has on her account. Having looked through  her statements, I dont consider 
there wouldve been anything, at the time,  that wouldve prompted BOS to take further action 
or specifically flag her account up as one which required  a review. 
Ms H hasnt disputed that the first time she actually told BOS  of her financial difficulties  was 
in 2017. She has said that there  several  phone calls throughout the period in question  during 
which she would call to find out the balance of her account  and during those calls it ought 
to have been obvious to the call handlers  she spoke  to that she was having difficulties. But 
Im not persuaded that it would been  the role of those call handlers to probe  Ms Hs 
spending, or enquire about her affairs when  she herself was reluctant to say anything to her 
bank. 
I acknowledge these  are sensitive matters, and I can completely understand why this isnt 
something Ms H wouldve found  easy to discuss at the time. But I dont  consider  it fair or 
reasonable to conclude  that staff ought to have taken action just because  she phoned the 
bank and asked  about her balance or made other  enquiries about  her account. In that 
regard, Ive considered  Ms Hs claim that BOS  has a Priority Team and Credit Card  Services 
team which would actively review accounts every six months. Im not aware  of this process, 
and BOS hasnt  referred  to it in its correspondence to this service. But what Ms H appears to 
suggest is that BOS  ought to review the statements and expenditure of every  overdrawn 
account. I dont  agree  thats something BOS was required to do at the time.
Having looked  through Ms Hs statements from 2013, I can see that the vast majority of the 
time she kept within her overdraft limit. On the few occasions where  she didnt, she very 
quickly brought her overdraft balance back within agreed limits. 
Ref: DRN80445882Ive seen no evidence  of unpaid cheques, or returned direct debits. So in principle, Im not 
persuaded that on the basis of her statements alone, BOS  shouldve taken action at the time 
or been more  proactive in working out whether  Ms H was indeed in financial difficulties. 
However, in July 2014 BOS has confirmed that Ms Hs credit card had collections activity on 
it. It said that this ought to have prompted  a broader review of Ms Hs situation, and likely 
wouldve included a review of her current account.  
I agree  with BOS  that had this happened at the time,  its likely  BOS wouldve concluded that 
Ms H was in financial difficulties. And had it concluded this at the time,  BOS confirmed that it 
wouldve made the same offer it has currently made to Ms H  namely  it wouldve stopped 
applying charges and interest to the account.  
On that basis, Im currently satisfied that BOSs offer is fair and reasonable. I dont agree it 
ought to have identified Ms Hs financial  difficulties  earlier  and I consider  its offer to refund  
the charges and interest since 2014 to be a fair one. I understand this amounts to £3,073.48. 
In addition to this, I consider that BOSs  failure  to identify  her difficulties and take appropriate 
action in a timely way has made  an already difficult situation for Ms H much worse. For that, 
I consider it fair and reasonable that BOS  should  also pay Ms H £350.  I consider this fairly 
recognises the additional pressure Ms H was put under, given an already difficult  economic 
situation, to also have to pay charges and interest  on her account.  
BOS agreed with my provisional conclusions but Ms H didnt:
She didnt consider  budgeting in order to comply to any agreements made with the 
bank should disadvantage [her] as a customer  in investigating and reviewing [her] 
bank statements in order  to assess financial  difficulty. 
She agreed that it wasnt telephone bankings role to address her personal  financial 
difficulties, but she had raised it in order to explain that she had been managing her 
account via telephone  banking since 2010.  
She wasnt  aware of all the additional  services the bank  provided. She said she was 
advised that the bank  had a specialist team that monitor  bank  accounts.  She said a 
customer service  representative of the bank told her that there is a review  date on 
every overdraft this review takes place every 6 to 12 months this is processed on a 
automated system  and manually via bank office staff alongside credit files. This same 
representative gave  examples of the types of things  which  might  lead to alerts such  as 
mortgage arrears,  collection agencies, bankruptcy. 
She was told by another representative that the banks back room staff reviewed 
overdrafts alerts  and credit checks and that the bank explained to her that overdrafts 
are reviewed every 12 months, including by checking  credit reference agencies.  
She thought this meant the bank couldve seen her difficulties earlier  than 2014. 
Ms H also provided evidence of her financial difficulties,  and the various organisations she 
had contacted about this. She explained  that was providing this evidence  to show  that she 
was actively working to manage [her] financial situation. These letters  were  from 2019. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Ref: DRN80445883Ive taken into account all the evidence Ms H has provided. Id like to reassure Ms H that I 
dont dispute the very difficult situation she finds herself in  and that this situation  has been 
ongoing for a number  of years. I have an enormous amount of sympathy for how stressful  
her circumstances have been  for her, and I hope that this decision does alleviate some  of 
that stress  for her. 
But my role in reviewing her complaint isnt to punish BOS   its to determine,  based on what 
I consider fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, whether BOS  missed opportunities in 
the past to identify she was in financial difficulties and offer her the appropriate support. 
Whilst Ive considered the evidence Ms H has provided, Im not persuaded that evidence 
suggests BOS shouldve identified her situation sooner. And the reasons for that are the 
same as those I gave in my provisional decision. Namely  that there was nothing  in the 
management of Ms Hs account, from my review of her statements, which ought to have 
alerted BOS.  The explanations Ms H has provided  from BOS about the checks it does  on 
clients with overdrafts indicate that certain  events trigger a review,  such  as mortgage  
arrears, collection agencies, bankruptcy.  These  things werent overtly present on her 
statements, and as I explained in my provisional  decision, Ms H has consistently kept to her 
overdraft limit. 
When I made further enquiries of the bank,  it explained that it had identified collections 
activity on Ms Hs credit card 2014.  In reviewing this information it acknowledged  that this 
ought to have prompted a review of Ms Hs account  and as a consequence,  it probably  
wouldve taken action  on her account much sooner.  
Whilst Ive considered very carefully the evidence and submissions Ms H has made, Im not 
persuaded anything she has raised changes the earliest date when I think BOS  ought to 
have taken action.  
BOS has carried out that calculation  and determined that it needs  to refund £3,073.48 to Ms 
H. For the reasons  Ive set out above,  and those that I gave in my provisional decision,  Im 
satisfied thats  a fair and reasonable offer to Ms H. 
And, given  Ms Hs situation,  I consider that BOSs failure to identify her difficulties and take 
appropriate action  in a timely way has made an already difficult  situation  for Ms H much 
worse. For that, I remain of the view that it would be fair and reasonable for BOS  to pay 
Ms H £350.  I consider  this fairly recognises the additional pressure Ms H was put under, 
given an already difficult economic situation,  to also have to pay charges and interest on her 
account. 
Whilst I acknowledge Ms Hs strength  of feeling,  and I fully recognise and sympathise with 
the very real and difficult financial  challenges  she has faced  throughout the years, I hope she 
can see Ive only reached my decision after a careful consideration of all the facts available,  
with due regard  to my role and the relevant rules  and guidance  applicable to BOS. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint. Bank of Scotland  plc must pay Ms H 
£3,073.48 within 28 days of when we tell it Ms H has accepted this final decision. 
Ref: DRN80445884It must also pay Ms H £350  compensation  for the trouble and upset she has suffered. Ms H 
is entitled to have this payment made to a different account, or via cheque, if she wishes. I 
will leave it to her to let Bank  of Scotland Plc know how shed prefer this payment to be 
made. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.  
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8044588