K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains that Nationwide  Building Society  wont refund transactions he says he didnt 
make from his account.
background
Mr I disputes a total of £12,918 of payments made  to an online gambling company from his 
bank account.  He says that he never  registered with this company. The payments  started  on 
13 and 14 March 2018 with his debit  card.  They  then resumed on 22 March 2018  with a 
replacement debit card as Nationwide recorded  that the old one was damaged. Mr I reported 
the fraud on 26 March  2018. During the period until then there were a number of 
transactions which he didnt dispute  including transfers between his Nationwide  savings 
account and current  account. 
Nationwide said it wouldnt refund the payments. It said that the transactions  were  made  
using two different  cards  and were consistent with other payments from the account to 
different gambling  companies. Mr I had paid funds into the account during the period and 
transferred money  from his savings account.  This was used in part to make these payments. 
He was an active user of mobile banking and didnt report very large sums being paid from 
his account. The IP address he used to log in to mobile banking  corresponded closely  to that 
used for some of the payments. It told Mr I that it would no longer provide an account  for 
him.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He said that:
-Hed provided Mr I with a detailed schedule showing the credits into his account and 
the disputed payments that were made.
-Mr I had transferred substantial winnings of £20,000 from a different gambling 
company from his current account to his ISA savings account on 9 March  2018.
-The majority  of this money was then transferred back to his current  account in 
amounts of up to £5,500 at a time on 13 and 14 March 2018. And together with other 
cheques he paid in helped fund a number of payments from his account.
-Those payments  made included the ones he disputed to the gambling company. But 
there were also other payments including a transfer of £1,500 to a third party.
-Mr I hadnt disputed  any of the other payments  or said that any of the transfers 
from his ISA werent made by him.
-Nationwide had written to Mr I on 22 March 2018  saying that his new card had been 
blocked following  its use for what it considered unusual  payments. It noted that Mr I 
called up to unblock the card.
-The payments  he disputed were made with his genuine card details. And had there 
been any winnings  these  would  likely  have  been paid back  to his current  account  
as had happened with other gambling companies.
-Mr I had accessed his account  online many times between the period 12 and 26 
March 2018 as shown in the system logs provided by Nationwide.  He thought it very 
unlikely that Mr I wouldnt have become  aware of the payments.
-Mr I had contacted  Nationwide previously saying that he didnt  think that the security  
questions it asked  when he called were sufficient. But the questions  had changed for 
the different  calls.
-Nationwide was entitled to close the account under the terms and conditions.
Mr I didnt agree and wanted  his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he didnt think his 
circumstances had been considered sensitively. He had said before that his mobile  phone  
Ref: DRN82761502was hacked in 2017 and 2018 and his personal  information taken. He didnt have any more 
information to provide  but wanted  to know if he could take his case to court.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service provides informal dispute  resolution.  If Mr I doesnt accept my decision he 
remains free to pursue this matter in court subject to any relevant time limits. 
I need to take account of the Payment Services Regulations 2017. And to think about 
whether Mr I authorised  the payments from his account. Thats  more  than the payments 
being authenticated but would require him to consent to them.  If he didnt  authorise  them  
then generally  Nationwide wouldnt be able to hold him responsible for them. 
So Ill be considering how these payments were made and whether I think  that Mr I 
consented to them or as he claims  a third party made them.
Im satisfied from the evidence provided by Nationwide that these  payments  were 
authenticated. That means that the gambling  company would  have had the correct 
information for both of the cards and where  requested the CVV security number. As the 
adjudicator has already  set out the other payments  and transfers  at this time made from     
Mr Is account werent disputed by him as part of this fraud claim. In particular the online 
banking logs from Nationwide confirm  the transfers between  his accounts and also as Ill 
come to the number of times when his account  was viewed.
The issue  is whether he consented to the payments. I need to think about what is most  
likely. Mr I says his mobile phone was hacked  but hes not provided  evidence  to support this 
and what actions he took as a result. And I take into account that to make these payments a 
fraudster would have  needed both his old and new card details. Ive listened  to the calls 
between Mr I and Nationwide and like the adjudicator can hear that each time Nationwide 
asked him for different  security information about his account. In one call where he seemed  
unsure when giving some information Nationwide asked further questions and decided not to 
give his savings balance  referring him to a branch. I dont have any evidence  to suggest that 
Nationwide didnt follow its normal processes and that any failure  to do so was the way in 
which his personal  information was compromised.
To find that the disputed payments were not made  by Mr I then Id need to consider all of the 
following most likely:
-A fraudster was able to get sufficient personal  details about  Mr I so that an account 
could be set up with an online gambling  company.
-That fraudster seemed to be able to anticipate exactly  when  there would be funds  
from say the ISA in his current account and later when other cheques paid in would 
have cleared when making payments.
-That person  had no desire  to take money  only to gamble  as there was no way 
evident or attempt  Ive seen  to withdraw  any winnings.
-It was a coincidence that these disputed payments were of the same pattern and 
nature as genuine ones made  by Mr I. And for example that the fraudster was 
making similar payments to gamble on the same  dates  Mr I was.
-Mr I chose to transfer money  out of his ISA to his current  account  shortly after 
depositing it for no specific reason and which in effect provided funds for these 
Ref: DRN82761503disputed gambling  payments.  And he didnt notice  the large transactions  alongside  
his own during this period despite  the regular access recorded to his account online.
-The fraudster somehow used an IP address at one time that closely  corresponded to 
one Mr I used to access his account.
Im afraid that these  arent all findings  I can make as most  likely based on the available 
evidence. So my conclusion is that Mr I consented  to these payments and they were  
authorised. As a result I dont have  a basis to require Nationwide  to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8276150