K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about nine instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable. Mr Ms 
complaint is brought to this service  on his behalf by a claims management company. But for 
ease I shall refer below to all actions being  taken  by Mr M.
background 
Mr M was given  nine instalment loans by SL from July 2015 to July 2018. A summary of the 
loans taken out by Mr M is shown  below:
Loan 
numberDate of 
loanRepayment  
dateLoan 
amountNumber of weekly 
repayments
1. 20/7/15 14/10/15 £500 21
2. 16/12/15 6/2/16 £370 21
3. 5/2/16 10/11/16 £600 39
4. 11/6/16 12/10/16 £100 21
5. 12/10/16 13/7/17 £200 39
6. 29/4/17 3/5/18 £400 52
7. 23/1/18 Unpaid? £1,000 52
8. 5/5/18 Unpaid? £500 26
9. 27/7/18 Unpaid? £400 39
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr M for details of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Ms 
declared expenses  to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit  and internal checks.  
Taking these into account SL said that the loans were affordable and left Mr M with a 
comfortable disposable income. But SL also said it would provide a rebate on Loan 1, pay 
8% interest on the rebate and remove  the entries about Loan  1 from Mr Ms credit file. It has 
applied the rebate (after deducting  tax) to reduce the outstanding balance on Loan 7.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator noted that SL had made  an offer in its final response letter about Loan  1, so 
he didnt consider Loan 1 in his view. Otherwise he recommended that Loans 8 and 9 should 
be upheld. He said that by Loan 8, Mr Ms overall  pattern of borrowing suggested that Mr M 
was persistently reliant on short term loans.
SL disagreed and said that it appeared from reviewing the adjudicators  view that the 
adjudicator had only considered the number of loans obtained  by Mr M. But it didnt feel that 
sustained or sequential borrowing was of itself irresponsible or conclusive that Mr M was 
persistently reliant  on borrowing.  SL said that it performed individual  checks  before every  
Ref: DRN81341662loan. SL considered the sustainability of the loans  and believed  that the adjudicator hadnt 
considered Mr Ms individual circumstances.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Mr M and to SL on 27 November 2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that SL had already settled Loan  1 and applied the settlement amount against the 
outstanding balance on Loan  7. I found this reasonable and hadnt considered this loan 
further in my decision. 
I noted that when  SL lent to Mr M the regulator  was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
Ref: DRN81341663borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ms complaint.
I explained that SL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr M. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr M had declared his monthly income as £1,126.66 
before Loans  2 and 3 and £1,473.32 from Loan  4 onwards. His declared expenditure had 
ranged from £375 to £875. And SL had increased  Mr Ms declared expenditure in its 
assessments of all the loans to reflect what it had seen in its credit checks  and internal 
models. 
I also noted that SL had checked Mr Ms credit file before  agreeing to the loans and it had 
provided this service with a summary of its checks. The checks showed no bankruptcy  or 
individual voluntary arrangements, no debt management plans and no county  court 
judgements before all the loans. 
Mr M hadnt provided this service with a copy of his credit report. So I couldnt  say that there  
was anything in that report which might have  caused  additional concerns to SL.
I could see that Loan  2 was taken out around two months after Loan 1 was repaid. Loan 2 
was for the smaller amount of £370 repayable  by 21 weekly  repayments of £30.30  which 
was less than the repayments Mr M had made on Loan 1. SLs credit checks showed that he 
had no active accounts in arrears. Id noted  that Mr Ms adjusted monthly disposable income  
was just £94.67. But I could see that was after SL had applied  its prudent  safeguards and 
buffers to Mr Ms declared expenditure. 
Loan 2 was still outstanding when Mr M took out Loan 3. The loan amount had significantly 
increased to £600  and was repayable over a longer period than Mr Ms previous loan. The 
loan was due to be repaid  by 39 weekly repayments of £30.62. SLs credit checks showed
that a new credit account had just been  opened  but there were no active credit  accounts in 
arrears. Again Id noted that Mr Ms adjusted monthly disposable income was just £68.22.  
But again  I could  see that was after SL had applied  its prudent  safeguards and buffers  to 
Mr Ms declared expenditure.  
Overall, given Mr Ms repayment amounts, and what was apparent  about  his circumstances 
at the time, I didnt  think it wouldve  been proportionate for SL to have asked him for the 
amount of information  that would have  been  needed  to show Loans 2 and 3 were 
unsustainable.  
And I didnt  think there was anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  SL was wrong  to have  given Loans 2 and 3 to Mr M.
Loan 3 was still outstanding when Mr M took out Loan 4. Loan 4 was for £100 and repayable 
by 21 weekly repayments of £8.19.  But by the time of Loan  4, Mr Ms monthly  income had 
increased by around £350. His declared  expenditure had fallen and Mr Ms monthly 
disposable income after SL had applied its safeguards, buffers and the loan repayments had 
increased to £455.  It was not clear to me if SL had also taken into account the repayments 
on Loan 3 when calculating this figure.
Ref: DRN81341664But overall, given  Mr Ms repayment amounts, and what  was apparent  about  his 
circumstances at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for SL to have asked 
him for the amount of information that would have been needed  to show  the lending was 
unsustainable.  
And I didnt  think there was anything in the information Mr M provided  or the information SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  SL was wrong  to have  given Loan 4 to Mr M.
Loan 5 was taken out on the day Loan  4 was repaid. And Loan 3 was still outstanding. I 
thought this might have  caused SL some concerns as it was more  likely than not that Mr M 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying Loan 4 was leaving in his finances. 
Loan 5 was for £200 repayable over 39 weeks by weekly repayments  of £10.21. SLs credit 
checks showed that he had four payments in arrears in the previous six months. And Loan 5 
was Mr Ms fourth loan in ten months without a break. I could also see that SL had again  
added an additional  amount of around  £700  of safeguards and buffers to Mr Ms declared 
expenses. So for the fifth loan running,  it was aware  that Mr M wasnt declaring  all his 
regular commitments.
I thought by the time of Loan 5, SL ought  reasonably  to have suspected  that Mr M was likely 
having trouble  managing his money. So I thought it would have been proportionate for SL to 
have gathered a more  comprehensive view of Mr Ms circumstances and sought some 
independent verification of this.
I explained that I would normally look at the borrowers bank statements to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Unfortunately Id not seen Mr Ms bank  
statements for the month before  Loan 5 to see what  proportionate checks would have 
shown. Id noted that the adjudicator had asked Mr M for his bank statements in 
October 2018 so hed had ample time to provide these. So I couldnt say that if SL had 
completed sufficient checks, it would  have found that Mr M couldnt afford to repay Loan 5 
sustainably. So I couldnt say that SL was wrong to have given Loan 5 to Mr M.
Id looked at the overall pattern of SLs lending with Mr M to see if there was a point at which 
SL should  reasonably have seen  that further  lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise 
harmful. And so SL should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I said this because:
By Loan  6, Mr M had been borrowing from SL for around 21 months with only a two 
months break.
Mr M had one other loan outstanding  with SL when he took out Loan 6.
The loan amount had increased to £400.  Mr M wasnt making  any real inroads to the 
amounts he owed SL and by approving this loan,  SL was extending Mr Ms 
indebtedness by a further year.  
I could see that as SL didnt stop lending at this point, Mr M went  on to take out another 
three loans  in the following 15 months. I thought that Mr M lost out because SL continued to 
provide borrowing from Loan 6 onwards because:
Ref: DRN81341665These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
The number  of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ms ability to 
access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
Id noted that SL had said that the adjudicators view hadnt considered  Mr Ms individual 
circumstances and only considered the number of loans Mr M had obtained. Id taken SLs 
response to the adjudicators view into account in reaching my decision.  Id also taken 
Mr Ms circumstances  into account. But I hadnt recreated affordability assessments of the 
loans in dispute. This was because I thought the number of loans and the pattern of lending 
here were of concern. 
Id also thought that when  a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, 
it was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As SL knew, the FCA made it clear in a recent  letter to CEOs of high 
cost lending firms that a high volume of relending..might  be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint about Loans 6 to 9. My redress was drafted on the 
basis that Loans 7, 8 and 9 hadnt been repaid. The most recent loan information  Id seen 
showed that. So, subject to any further representations by Mr M or SL my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold  this complaint in part. I intended to order Sunny to:
with regard  to Loan 6, refund  all the interest  and charges that Mr M has paid on this loan;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
with regard  to Loans 7 to 9, refund all the interest and charges that Mr M has paid on 
these loans;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loans 7 to 9;
apply the refunds referred to above  to reduce any capital outstanding on Loans 7 to 9 and 
pay any balance  to Mr M;  
remove all entries about Loan  6 from Mr Ms credit file;
remove all entries about Loans  7 to 9 from Mr Ms credit file when  they have been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax it was taken  off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr M responded to say that he accepted my provisional decision.
SL responded to my provisional decision to say that my proposals had been  accepted.  
Ref: DRN81341666my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Mr M and SL have accepted my provisional decision and given  me nothing 
further to consider, I see no reason  to depart from the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require SL to take the 
steps and pay Mr M some  compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.With regard to Loan 6, refund all the interest and charges that Mr M has paid on this 
loan;
2.Pay 8% simple  interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
3.With regard to Loans 7 to 9, refund all the interest and charges that Mr M has paid on 
these loans;
4.Pay 8% simple  interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment  to the date of 
settlement;
5.Write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loans 7 to 9;
6.Apply the refunds referred  to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loans 7 to 9 
and pay any balance  to Mr M; 
7.Remove all entries about Loan  6 from Mr Ms credit file; and
8.Remove all entries about Loans  7 to 9 from Mr Ms credit file when they have been  
repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax it was taken  off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8134166