K821x#15complaint
A complaint was made  on behalf of Mr H about  the approach adopted  by Sanlam Life & 
Pensions UK Limited when it came to calculating appropriate redress.
background
In 2017 Sanlam confirmed Mr H had suffered a loss as a result  of contributing to a free-
standing additional  voluntary contribution plan (FSAVC) rather  than contributing to his 
employers in-house  AVC (additional voluntary contribution scheme).  So they indicated they 
would undertake a redress  exercise to address the loss suffered.
Sanlams letter of 23 August 2017  set out that their offer to him had been calculated 
according to guidelines set by the financial services regulator  for the conduct  of the FSAVC 
review.  Sanlam explained that although  the investigation of his complaint had been dealt 
with outside the terms of that review, they had deemed that this method was appropriate for 
his complaint. Sanlam  went  on to say that:
We agree to offer redress  on an interim basis and once the FCAs work is complete 
regarding the consultation process  on the redress methodology,  we will revisit the case to 
see whether more redress is due.
This followed the start of the regulators  consultation in 2016.  A press release issued by the 
regulator in August 2016 had said:
The Financial Conduct Authority is concerned that the methodology to calculate redress  in 
cases of unsuitable  advice on transfers from defined  benefit (DB) occupational pension  
schemes to personal  pensions is outdated. It intends to consult in autumn 2016 to update 
the methodology with a view to reaching a conclusion by spring 2017. The FCA does not 
expect firms investigating complaints on this issue to settle complaints on a full and final 
basis until the outcome  of the consultation  is known. Firms may wish to offer provisional  
redress and then provide a final response  and any further redress  once the outcome of the 
consultation is known.
On 27 October 2017 the regulator published  their guidance (FG17/9).  At para 10 it set out:
Where  a respondent upholds a complaint concerning a non-joiner,  opt-out or FSAVC case, 
the respondent may use this guidance  as a basis for calculating appropriate redress, to the 
extent that it is appropriate  to do so and subject to the particular circumstances of the case . 
On 12 September  2018 Sanlam told Mr Hs representatives that having taken into 
consideration the guidance provided by FG17/9 (and following the redress payment already 
made), Sanlam were  satisfied the redress paid was appropriate and no further redress was 
due. So the redress  previously paid ought  to be deemed as being their full and final 
settlement.
This was clarified in an email on 18 September 2018  where Sanlam said FG17/9 was to 
ensure that redress was at an appropriate  level where a consumer had been given incorrect 
advice to transfer from a DB pension scheme  to a DC pension  scheme. The guidance went 
on to set out that firms  may use the guidance  (it does not say they must) for FSAVC  
complaints where  the firm did not review the relevant pension transaction in accordance  with 
the regulatory standard at the time.
Ref: DRN80255462Mr Hs representatives went on to complain  to this service. They  said Sanlam ought to be 
required to comply with the guidance  issued and to undertake  a re-calculation of loss using 
the new criteria set out by the regulator.
Our adjudicator issued  his view on Mr Hs complaint. He set out the regulators press release 
of August  2016  and the wording of the guidance (FG17/9) that followed.  
This guidance is for respondents who receive a complaint about advice they gave  to 
transfer all or part of the cash value of accrued benefits under a DB pension  scheme into a 
personal pension  scheme. The guidance  contains assumptions which respondents should 
use to calculate  appropriate redress in circumstances where:
the customer received  advice  from the firm which was negligent or contravened 
relevant requirements;  and
if the advice  had not been negligent  or had complied with the relevant requirements,  
the customer would not have transferred all or part of the cash value of accrued 
benefits from the DB pension scheme  into the personal pension scheme..
This guidance may also be relevant  to respondents who receive a complaint about  a case 
involving a non-joiner1,  opt-out2  or FSAVC  (see paragraphs 10).
The adjudicator also thought the summary feedback  on GC17/1 (from the guidance)  was 
relevant:
Many respondents  stated  that the revised  methodology  may be used for opt-out, non-joiner,  
and FSAVC cases. Following this, we have decided that firms  may choose  to use the 
revised methodology as a base for calculating redress  for these  cases. The firms  must  
consider the extent to which this is appropriate.  This is subject to the particular 
circumstances of the case.  In doing  so, firms  should  consider at the outset if any 
adjustments need to be made  to ensure the consumer receives the appropriate level of 
redress. We understand that one concern relating  to methodology for these cases  is the 
future earnings growth assumption. This was last set at RPI +2%. In cases of actual loss, 
firms may use actual  information about  marital  status and spousal age difference. This will 
enable the redress  to take account of the consumers circumstances where this is known.
The adjudicator acknowledged the stress  placed  by Sanlam on the words  firms  may 
choose to use the revised methodology.  But he didnt agree this presented  any real 
ambiguity. His view was that it was intended  and would be expected  that Sanlam would 
rerun the calculations  with the updated  methodology and offer additional redress if the loss 
shown is greater. He thought the initial August 2016  press release made the regulators 
expectations clear enough. He also thought the press release  made  clear  the regulator  did 
not expect or consider it reasonable to deem  interim offers made  under the old methodology 
to be treated or deemed to be in full and final settlement  whilst  the consultation was 
underway.
The adjudicator recommended Sanlam  returned to the calculations and complete them in 
line with the guidance and pay any additional redress  due. He said additional redress  should 
be paid (if possible) into Mr Hs FSAVC policy, taking into account the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief.  It should not be paid into the FSAVC  if it would cause  any allowance  
or protection  issues. In that case, it should be paid direct to Mr H less a notional deduction 
Ref: DRN80255463for the tax he would be expected pay on drawing  it from the FSAVC  in retirement (given his 
expected marginal rate and any available tax-free  cash). The adjudicator  also recommended  
Sanlam pay Mr H £300 to represent the inconvenience he had been  caused.
Sanlam reflected on this but ultimately  asked  for an ombudsmans decision on the issue. 
They have explained they werent  clear on whether they needed to revisit  Mr Hs case for 
example. They told us they had originally begun contacting people such  as Mr H asking for 
more information  so that they could be assessed to see if any further  redress was due 
following the regulators update of October  2017.
Following a request  from Sanlam, we confirmed that as far as we are aware the approach 
adopted by Sanlam in questioning whether they were required to revisit calculations  in 
circumstances such as Mr H is unique and hasnt been followed by other firms.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
Sanlam have already concluded it was unsuitable for Mr H to have been advised to 
contribute to an FSAVC  rather than his in-house  scheme. They have also gone  on to make  
an interim offer and payment at an earlier date; and its for me to decide whether they need 
to do anything further. I think they do.
I think its clear  enough there  was no intention on the part of the regulator or indeed Sanlam 
here, that the payment  made to Mr H during the time of the regulators consultation was 
underway, was to be full and final settlement.
I accept the intention was for such calculations and payments  to be revisited at the 
conclusion of the consultation.  I think the regulators press release and Sanlams letter  of 
August 2017 (both set out above) are sufficiently clear on this.
I agree  with the information that has been supplied to Sanlam by this service  and I think its 
right to expect Sanlam to revisit the assessment completed for Mr H and to run the 
calculations using the updated guidance  and methodology provided  by the regulator in 
October 2017. 
Ive seen the attention drawn  by Sanlam to the use of the word  may by the regulator in their 
guidance material. But Ive balanced everything said therein and everything provided to me 
and I think the underlying  intention here is to ensure the consumer receives  the appropriate 
level of redress. 
Here that means  revisiting Mr Hs loss calculation and using the updated methodology to 
establish whether  a further payment of redress is due to achieve the appropriate  level. As 
already set out by the adjudicator, additional  redress should, if possible,  be paid into Mr H's 
FSAVC plan, taking  into account the effect  of charges and any available  tax relief. It should  
not be paid into the FSAVC if it would cause any allowance or protection issues.  In that 
case, it should be paid direct  to Mr H less a notional deduction for the tax he would be 
expected pay on drawing it from the FSAVC in retirement (given  his expected  marginal rate 
and any available  tax-free cash).
Ref: DRN80255464I also agree  with the adjudicator that Sanlam should pay Mr H £300  to represent the real 
inconvenience I accept  he will have been  caused here.
I have seen a suggestion that at an earlier stage Sanlam had referred  to the method they 
intended to pay redress to Mr H being  an influence on their decision as to whether they 
would revisit  their calculations. It appears to me this submission was not pursued any further  
in relation to Mr H to this service.
my final decision
So for the reasons given I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Sanlam Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited. Sanlam are required to complete the loss assessment calculation using the updated  
guidance. In addition they are required to pay Mr H £300 to represent his inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8025546