K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that HSBC UK Bank  plc didnt credit her account with cash deposits  she 
made using  the banks  selfservice machine.  
background
In 2018 Mrs N noticed that she had three  receipts indicating that shed deposited cash  to her 
HSBC account  in 2011 and 2014,  but that there were no corresponding credits  showing on 
her account  statements.  
HSBC checked  its records but was unable  to identify any discrepancies from the dates in 
question. It pointed out that the printed  receipts were produced by the customer  and that the 
amounts deposited  were  always  subject to verification. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but wasnt inclined to uphold  it. He noted 
that the first of the transactions had taken place in November 2011. Since that was more 
than six years before Mrs N complained, it had been  referred  to us outside the relevant time 
limits. 
But the adjudicator wasnt persuaded either that any money was paid in when the other 
receipts were produced  in June and August 2014. Mrs N didnt accept his conclusions and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have however reached broadly the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for similar reasons.
Mrs N appears  to accept that her complaint about  the first transaction (in 2011) was brought  
out of time. We cant generally consider a complaint about events that happened  more than 
six years  before the complaint  was made.  There are exceptions   for example, where the 
complainant couldnt have  found out about it until later, or where there are exceptional 
circumstances. But I think the adjudicator  was right to say that we cant  look at what  
happened in 2011. 
I turn then to the events of 2014. Mrs N has printed receipts from 10 June and 12 August. 
They include  her card details and amounts of £500  and £260 respectively. Those figures  
dont appear on her bank  statements; in fact, theres  no deposit for either of those dates.   
The system for depositing cash that was used  didnt count the cash.  That was checked  by 
the bank later. Mrs N would have entered her card, keyed an amount and deposited an 
envelope. Those actions in turn generated a customer receipt that recorded the date of the 
deposit and the amount the customer had keyed into the machine. It would have been quite 
possible therefore to obtain a receipt for an amount  different from what was deposited   or 
even without depositing anything. 
The adjudicator observed that Mrs N hadnt raised  this issue  for several  years, even though 
it would  have been apparent from her statements that no money had been credited to her 
account. That was, he thought, an indication  that she hadnt  paid in any money  after all. 
Mrs N explained that she had some family issues to deal with at the time,  but I dont think  
she would  have overlooked missing cash for so long. 
Ref: DRN80871692Mrs N also provided a copy  of her passbook from an account with another  provider. That 
showed cash being credited and debited in 2014, but there was nothing corresponding to the 
deposits she says she made to her HSBC account.  
I note as well that the checks  the bank made  as far as it could after so long  didnt show 
any cash that hadnt been credited. Its unlikely in my view that two lots of cash  could have 
gone missing within  a couple of months.  
Ive no reason to think Mrs N doesnt  genuinely  believe  she made two deposits in line with 
the receipts. But I think as well that shes  mistaken in her recollection. As Ive explained, the 
deposit slips shes now found  are not proof that any cash was deposited,  only that she 
entered those  figures using her card. Im not persuaded that she did deposit cash as she 
believes. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require HSBC UK Bank plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mrs Ns complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mrs N to accept or reject  my decision before 6 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8087169