K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) refused  a claim on the personal 
liability section of their home  insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs O were served with legal proceedings by someone who said their dog had bitten 
his hand. They made a claim on their policy to cover this but UKI wouldnt cover the claim. It 
said Mr and Mrs O should have notified it of the claim when they heard from the other  
persons solicitors in February 2018, but they didnt make a claim until November. And in the 
meantime, they had been in correspondence  with the other  persons solicitors,  denying the 
claim. UKI said their actions had prejudiced its ability to deal with the claim.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed  and complained to UKI, saying they notified  UKI when they 
believed a claim was likely to proceed, and up to that point  they hadnt believed  the other  
person would proceed with the case as there  was no evidence that the event had taken 
place. 
UKI didnt  change its decision. It said Mr and Mrs O had breached the policy  conditions  and 
its position had been prejudiced by that  it hadnt been able to investigate  liability  before the 
court proceedings were issued  and legal costs were incurred.
When Mr and Mrs O brought their complaint to this service,  our investigator didnt think it 
should be upheld.  He agreed that Mr and Mrs O had breached  the policy  conditions  and that 
this had meant UKI wasnt able to take over the claim and settle  it. 
Mr and Mrs O have requested an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers Mr and Mrs O for the injury claim that was made against them.  But its a 
condition of the policy that they must send UKI a copy of any letters or court documents they 
receive about a claim or potential claim as soon as they receive them,  and get UKIs consent  
before admitting, denying, negotiating or settling a claim.
Mr and Mrs O received  letters in February 2018 notifying them of the personal injury  claim. 
They didnt refer this to UKI until November, around  nine months later. And during that 
period, they told the other party they were denying liability.  
Mr and Mrs O say they didnt think the claim would  be pursued. But the letters sent to Mr and 
Mrs O were from lawyers  and set out information  about a proposed legal claim. They  also 
advised Mr and Mrs O to refer it to their insurers  and said most policies required the 
policyholder to notify their insurer promptly. The policy condition  requires  them to notify UKI 
of claims or potential claims. This was clearly notice of a potential claim and I think Mr and 
Mrs O were put on notice by the letters that this was something to refer to their insurers.
On this basis, Im satisfied they were in breach of the policy  conditions.
Ref: DRN84667752That doesnt  necessarily  mean UKI could refuse the claim. An insurer shouldnt  generally 
refuse what would  otherwise be a valid claim simply because the policyholder  hasnt 
complied with a policy  term, unless their breach affects the claim. 
UKI says it was prevented from looking into the claim earlier.  If it had been able to do that, it 
would have been able to take over the claim.  And its likely UKI would likely have settled the 
claim; it was relatively modest and could potentially  have been settled. Because  Mr and 
Mrs O contested the claim, the other party issued court proceedings. This all happened 
without UKI having  any input; it had no control over what  happened and no opportunity to 
negotiate a settlement. And it meant legal costs were incurred that might otherwise have 
been avoided,  and would have made it more expensive to settle. 
For these reasons my view is that Mr and Mrs Os actions did prejudice UKI and so its 
decision to refuse the claim was fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8466775