K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains about the way in which AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has applied  an 
excess to her private medical  insurance claim.
background
Mrs V holds a private medical insurance  policy. Her policy has an out-patient limit of £1,100,  
and she has a £500 excess.  
In 2016, Mrs V called  AXA to explain  she needed  to see a specialist. A consultation was 
authorised, as well as any minor diagnostic tests. AXA told her the cost of these would come 
out of her out-patient limit.
The cost of Mrs Vs treatment exceeded  her £1,100 out-patient limit. After she submitted her 
claim, AXA deducted the £500 excess which reduced her out-patient limit to £600. AXA 
therefore paid £600 of the claim, and Mrs V was liable for the remaining amount. 
Mrs V felt this was unfair.  She said she hadnt  understood the out-patient limit would be 
reduced by the excess. She thought she would have  to pay the excess, and then AXA would 
apply the out-patient limit to the claim,  so that £1,100 of the claim would be covered by AXA, 
rather than only £600.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  AXA had applied 
the excess correctly  to Mrs Vs claim. 
Mrs V didnt accept our investigators findings,  so the matter has been  passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked at what the policy says about  the application of the excess. It says the excess is 
taken off the first claim in each policy year. It then goes on to say if the claim is for treatment 
that has a limit, AXA will apply the limit before  the excess  is taken  off. It also gives  some 
examples of how the excess works,  and this makes it clear that the application of the excess 
will reduce  the out-patient  limit.   
That means AXA has applied the excess to Mrs Vs claim in line with its policy terms and 
conditions.
Mrs V understood she would have to pay the £500 excess. However,  it seems  she hadnt 
appreciated that AXA would apply the limit before the excess was taken off.
This meant that AXA didnt pay the full £1,100  as she was expecting,  and instead only 
contributed £600  towards her claim. 
Its unfortunate that Mrs V thought the excess would  work in a different way, but she hasnt 
said that AXA misled  her about  this. And I understand Mrs Vs out-patient  limit had been 
reduced by the application of the excess following  a claim made in a previous policy  year. 
Ref: DRN84397082When Mrs V spoke  with AXA before having  the treatment, it told her the tests would come 
out of her out-patient limit, and also reminded  her of the £500 excess. Arguably AXA could  
have gone further here and told Mrs V that once the excess was paid, this would reduce her 
out-patient limit. However,  I dont think it was necessarily obliged to do so. I say that 
because Mrs V didnt ask for any clarification about  the excess, and also AXA didnt know 
that the cost of the consultation  and tests, together with the excess, would exceed the out-
patient limit. 
I therefore dont  require AXA to do anything. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8439708