K821x#15complaint
Mrs L makes a number of complaints about  how Lloyds Bank  Plc dealt  with her credit  card 
account.
background
Mrs L says she received a letter from Lloyds in July 2018 telling her that her credit card 
minimum repayment amount would  increase  to 2.5% from 1%. She says she spoke to 
Lloyds in September 2018 and was told her only option was to close  the account. Mrs L says 
she later found out that Lloyds advice was wrong  and that it wasnt  complying  with the new 
rules on persistent debt.  She also says her account was not in arrears  but couldnt afford  to 
make the increased  payments. Mrs L says that any default on her credit file may result in her 
losing her home under the conditions  of an equity release scheme.
Mrs L would  like Lloyds to consider writing  off the debt or reducing the interest rate. She 
says if Lloyds had given her the correct advice then her account would have been monitored 
for 18 months rather than the minimum payment increased. And that under the persistent 
debt rules any action by Lloyds should not have an adverse  affect on her.
Lloyds has sent Mrs L a number of letters in response to her complaints. In summary it says 
it dealt correctly with the call in September 2018  and followed  Mrs Ls instructions to close  
the account. It says its offered Mrs L a number  of options including freezing interest  and 
charges but it must also accurately report the account position to the Credit  Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). Lloyds accepts there was some  confusion  in its letters and has paid 
Mrs L £75 compensation  and refunded  call costs. It also accepts giving misleading 
information about the account being open and has paid £50 compensation.
Mrs L brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint in part. The 
investigator thought  the July 2018 letter  was not a notice under the new persistent  debt rules  
and Lloyds had given Mrs L incorrect advice in the September  2018 call. The investigator 
thought Mrs L closed the account based on that incorrect advice  but couldnt fairly  ask 
Lloyds to reopen the account. The investigator recommended Lloyds pay £100  
compensation for that. The investigator  thought  that Lloyds hadnt dealt with Mrs L under  the 
persistent rules and so couldnt be criticised for not complying  with those rules.
The investigator thought Lloyds had tried to help Mrs L and provided reasonable options and 
thought Lloyds had paid a fair amount of compensation in respect  of part of the complaint.
Lloyds says its paid Mrs L for the incorrect information during the call and says it sent Mrs L 
regular letters about her persistent debt.
Mrs L doesnt accept  that view and in summary  repeats how important it is for her to avoid 
her account  being  defaulted. She says she is struggling to meet  the existing repayment let 
alone any increases and if given  the correct information then she wouldnt have closed her 
account. Mrs L says if Lloyds had followed the new rules then it could have cancelled or 
reduced interest. She says she was using her account to pay another  credit card balance  
and Lloyds actions  have cost her about  £350 a month.
Ref: DRN83543022my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to a similar 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mrs L will be disappointed  by my view and I 
appreciate how strongly she feels about whats happened. I confirm  that I have read all of 
Mrs Ls letters to us.
I dont think Lloyds has been clear in its dealings  with Mrs L about the issue  of persistent  
debt and I dont  think it has explained  to us if it thought it was complying with its obligations 
under the new Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) rules. I can see that Lloyds has told us it 
was sending Mrs L regular letters about  her persistent debt  but I dont think its explained  to 
us why it told Mrs L it was increasing the minimum payment and if that was in line with those 
new rules.
So I accept  that Mrs L felt she had no alternative  but to close her account. And so I agree 
with the investigator  that Lloyds should pay compensation for the confusing information it 
gave her. I appreciate that Lloyds  say it has paid £75 for that but its letter  about  that refers  to 
confusion in a letter. In any event I think Lloyds should pay £200 in total for the misleading 
information in the call.
I appreciate that Mrs L says Lloyds hasnt complied with the new FCA rules and I agree that 
it doesnt appear to have.  But it follows that if it hasnt then I cant  fairly conclude that it 
should have offered formal help under those rules if it hadnt started the process that Mrs L 
and Lloyds are familiar  with. I think the important issue is if Lloyds has dealt positively  and 
sympathetically with someone in financial  difficulty.
I dont think there can be any doubt Mrs L is in such  financial difficulty. I can see that Lloyds 
carried out a financial assessment that suggested  Mrs L was in deficit by £900 a month.  And 
I can also see that Mrs L was using her Lloyds credit card account  to pay off a different 
credit card. So I have  come to the overall  conclusion that even  if Lloyds had followed the 
FCA timetable on persistent debt then at some  point the same position would have been 
reached. And whilst  I appreciate what Mrs L says about that stage I think  on balance the 
likely outcome would be broadly  the same. I dont think it follows that Lloyds would  have 
simply reduced the interest  rate or written  off the debt but would have made the same offer 
to her that it has already made.
I think on balance Lloyds  has acted  positively and sympathetically by freezing interest, 
providing Mrs L with details of its specialist team and other agencies that could assist her. I 
also think its provided a reasonable  solution in the long term but I accept  that may affect 
Mrs Ls credit file. I appreciate Mrs Ls dilemma and what she says about that and the 
implication for her home.  But I cant fairly  order Lloyds to write off the debt or reduce  the 
interest rate as she would  like. I also appreciate that Mrs L says Lloyds offers credit card 
accounts with lower interest  rates and that her rate is too high. But again I cant fairly order  
that Lloyds transfers  the debt in such a way and Im satisfied Mrs L agreed to the interest  
rate when she opened the account.
Overall whilst I accept  Lloyds  didnt handle parts of this complaint as it should  I cant fairly 
order it to take the steps Mrs L would like or pay the compensation  she would like. I 
appreciate Mrs L will remain disappointed  by my decision   but I think that brings an end to 
what we in trying to sort out this complaint  informally can do to help her.
Ref: DRN83543023my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Lloyds Bank Plc to pay 
Mrs L £125 compensation in addition to the £75 it has already paid her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8354302