K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK plc (trading under its Barclaycard brand) has dealt 
with her after she was a victim of a scam. Specifically, she thinks  Barclaycard should  write 
off balance transfers on two credit  card accounts  and that it should not have allowed her to 
take out borrowing that she couldnt afford. 
background
Ms H has explained  the background in some detail, so I only need  to provide a summary  of 
what shes said about her ex-partners  activities. I can assure her though that Ive read very 
carefully all shes had to say and have no reason to disbelieve what shes  told this service 
about the relationship. 
Ms H has explained  that she met her now former partner in early 2015 on a dating  website.  
He claimed to be a successful businessman,  and Ms H allowed him to make financial  
decisions for them. They decided to buy an overseas property together,  and Ms H agreed to 
sell her property and to provide additional  funding for it. 
After some time, Ms Hs partner said that his business was experiencing temporary financial 
difficulties and she agreed to support him  in the expectation that she would be repaid. 
Shortly before her house was to be sold, Ms H concluded  that she had fallen victim  to a 
scam and that her partner would not pay her back.
In order to provide  funding for her partner and his business, Ms H took out three balance 
transfers over two credit cards, two in July 2016  and one in January 2017. They totalled 
£22,500. All were  credited to Ms Hs account with a different bank. 
Ms H acknowledges that she requested the first two balance transfers, having been misled  
by her partner about his motives and his business. She says however that the third transfer 
was made  by her ex-partner without her authority. 
Ms H also said that her ex-partner used her card without her authority. Barclaycard agreed 
to refund the transactions  concerned, but without accepting it was obliged to do so. 
Ms H also feels  that Barclaycard should have made more thorough  checks  before agreeing 
to increase her credit limits, because the additional borrowing was unaffordable.  
Barclaycard didnt accept  that it should write off Ms Hs borrowing, although it did offer to 
accept a reduced payment in settlement of it, and it agreed to an informal repayment plan. It 
also paid Ms H a small amount in compensation when she said it had failed to reply to her 
letters. Ms H didnt  feel that went far enough, however, and referred her complaint to this 
service. 
One of our adjudicators considered what Ms H and Barclaycard had said,  but didnt think  
that Barclaycard  had treated Ms H unfairly.  Since Ms H had acknowledged that she had 
requested the first two balance transfers,  the adjudicator didnt feel it would be fair to write  
them off. And there was evidence that she knew about the third transfer when it was made, 
but didnt raise any issue with Barclaycard at the time. The adjudicator was also satisfied 
that Barclaycard  had carried out appropriate affordability checks before  increasing Ms Hs 
credit limits. 
Ref: DRN80232072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator  did, and for similar reasons. 
In her response to the adjudicators view, Ms H suggested that the adjudicator contact the 
police investigating  her ex-partners conduct.  I dont  however feel that is necessary, because 
 at least for the purposes of this decision  I accept what shes  said about her wider 
circumstances. That is, Ive approached her complaint on the basis  that she was, as she 
says, misled into providing funds for her ex-partner and his business and that he acted  
dishonestly. And of course she has my sympathy  that she fell victim to such  deception. I 
should say though that Barclaycard has never  suggested either that what she has said about 
her relationship with her ex-partner  isnt true. 
As Ive said,  Ms H acknowledges that she agreed  to the first two balance transfers, in July 
2016. Since she asked  Barclaycard to make  them, I must therefore consider whether it had 
any reason not to agree to her request. In my view, it didnt. It couldnt have known at the 
time what the background was, or that Ms H was being deceived  over a period of many 
months by her then partner. After all, she didnt know that, and didnt herself realise what 
was happening until about ten months later. I cant fairly conclude  then that Barclaycard 
should have declined Ms Hs request because of the still unidentified motives of her then 
partner.       
Ms Hs case on the third balance transfer, in January 2017, is different however. She says 
her ex-partner arranged  it without her authority. When she found out about it, Ms H agreed 
to treat it as a business loan. Barclaycards  records show, and I accept,  that the balance 
transfer was arranged online. Ms H says however that she didnt disclose her online banking  
details to her ex-partner  or keep  them  written  down. She does acknowledge though that she 
allowed him a good  deal of control over their finances. I think its more  likely than not that 
she did in fact allow him access to her online banking. I note too that the transfer was made 
to her own bank account before being  moved  again.  
But, even  if I were  to reach  a different conclusion about that, I note that Ms H didnt raise the 
issue with Barclaycard even when she found  out about the transfer. And she took no steps 
to ensure her account was better protected  for example, by changing  her security details. 
Together with her comment that she agreed to treat the transfer  as a business loan, this 
leads me to conclude  that she agreed  to the transfer after the event. By not telling the bank 
as soon as she found out what  had happened, she led it to believe she had approved  the 
transfer. In effect,  she ratified it. That meant Barclaycard may have  lost an opportunity to 
investigate it at the time. In the circumstances,  it wouldnt  be fair to require Barclaycard to 
write off the resulting debt.       
I turn now to the question of affordability. Lenders  should ensure that borrowers  are able to 
afford to repay money they borrow, and similar principles apply where a credit  card issuer is 
offering to increase a credit  limit. In addition, they should offer cardholders  the opportunity  to 
decline an increase  in a credit  limit. Barclaycard no longer has information about changes  to 
Ms Hs credit  limits, with the exception of that agreed to accommodate the January 2017  
balance transfer.  (There had otherwise been  no increases since 2010.)
Barclaycard says that Ms H requested the increase; she says the bank offered it to her. I 
dont think thats  significant though, since she had the option of declining  the increase,  or not 
using it. Ms Hs primary argument though is that, if Barclaycard  had been  more thorough  in 
Ref: DRN80232073its checks, it would have found out that she was unemployed. Thats because she was 
employed in her ex-partners business which wasnt a genuine operation. Whilst 
Barclaycard needed to carry out checks to see if Ms H could afford her new credit limit, 
however, it wasnt required to verify the status  of the business she had said employed her. 
Like the adjudicator,  therefore, Im satisfied that Barclaycard made  appropriate checks 
before increasing  Ms Hs credit limit. 
Ms Hs complaint about customer  service is closely linked in my view to her overall 
complaint. She says,  for example, that Barclaycard didnt take account of her circumstances, 
and shes contrasted  its approach with that of another  credit  provider. I think however that 
Barclaycard did properly take account  of what happened here,  but was justified in concluding 
there were no grounds to conclude it should write off Ms Hs debt. 
Barclaycard has also indicated that its willing to discuss  arrangements for repayment  of the 
debt, including  payment plans. I would remind it of its obligation to treat cases  of financial 
appropriately and that the obligation is an ongoing  one; it and Ms H may need to review 
payment arrangements  in the future.  But, whilst  Ms H has my sympathy,  I see no reason to 
require Barclaycard to write off her debt. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK plc to do anything more to resolve  
Ms Hs complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8023207