K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) stopped her from closing her 
credit card account when  she instructed them to do so by phone  she says Barclays  were 
bullying and aggressive. She says she then used her card and despite a change in her 
financial circumstances, Barclays increased  her credit limit. She says because  of Barclays  
actions shes in financial difficulty  and wants  compensation.
background
Towards the end of 2017 Miss S had two telephone conversations  with Barclays  Miss S 
wanted to close  her credit card account  because shed recently  applied  for a new credit card 
with another business offering a 0% deal and shed instructed a balance transfer. Miss S 
says Barclays stopped her from doing this even though she told them about a change  in her 
circumstances. She says the account was left open against her wishes.
Miss S says because the account was left open, she used the card which she wouldnt 
otherwise have been able to do. She says she wouldve borrowed money from family 
instead. She says Barclays also increased  her credit limit despite telling them of her change  
in circumstances.  She says shes now in financial  difficulty  and the card is at its limit. She 
says she wouldnt be stuck in the position shes now in had Barclays done what she asked it 
to do and not acted against  her clear wishes.
Mrs S wants  compensation  for the financial  hardship  and emotional  stress shes suffered as 
a result.
In summary  Barclays says it hasnt done  anything wrong. It says that Miss S called twice as 
she says in 2017 to ask to close her account.  In the first call it said it would lower  her interest 
rate on her account  and says Miss S decided to keep  the account  open. In the second call it 
says Miss S said that she intended to come  back to Barclays in the future and after a 
discussion about the account  she decided  to keep it open. Barclays  says at no time during 
these phone calls did Miss S tell them about her change in circumstances or say she was 
struggling financial. And says it did not refuse to close her account.
Barclays says it did nothing wrong  in increasing Miss S credit limit in 2018  the operation of 
her account  warranted  the increase and there  was nothing to suggest  she was experiencing 
financial difficulty. It says it provided  Miss S with the required  notice  that it was increasing  
her limit and gave her the option  to decline it, which she didnt exercise.
Barclays says it has no record of Miss S telling  them she was in financial  difficulty until much 
later on  nine months after the phone calls in 2017.  It says Miss S asked about  repayment 
plans at this point. But given it would impact  her credit score and because it says Miss S 
said she could meet the minimum payment,  she declined assistance.
When Miss S made her complaint a short time after,  Barclays says it was only at this point 
that Miss S circumstances  were known about and a discussion took place. It says it has 
acted fairly  and reasonably  it credited her account  with £75 as a gesture of goodwill; 
refunded some interest  of just under £100;  refunded  an over-limit fee; suspended  interest  on 
her account  for four months; and says at this point it closed the account.
Ref: DRN81750412Barclays also says it offered Miss S a repayment plan at this point, which  she declined 
because she was concerned how it would affect her credit file. It also says it made Miss S 
aware that she could  talk to its financial difficulties team if she wants  to.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary they said 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong because:
Miss S decided to keep the account  open following the phone calls in 2017  they 
didnt think Miss S was pressured into keeping the account open or that Barclays  
refused to close the account.
Miss S didnt tell Barclays about her change in circumstances or tell them  she was 
facing difficulty during these phone calls.
Barclays acted fairly  when it increased  Miss S credit card limit in 2018  there was 
nothing to indicate Miss S was in financial difficulty at this point or that shed told  
Barclays prior to it making the increase.
Barclays acted positively and sympathetically  when it was made  aware of Miss S 
circumstances later on, so there was nothing more it needed to do.
Miss S disagrees. In summary she says Barclays has admitted it acted aggressively in the 
phone calls in 2017  thats  why it offered her the goodwill payment. And she says the 
adjudicator is wrong about the timing  of when she told Barclays  about  her change in 
circumstances.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me for a decision.   
my findings
While Ive only summarised above what both parties have said happened in this dispute,
Ive carefully read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know Miss S will be disappointed with my decision,  Ive decided not 
to uphold her complaint.  I think  the adjudicator has reached the right outcome here and 
theres not much I feel I can usefully  add to what theyve already told Miss S. But in any 
event Ive set out my reasons  below.
failure to close account  when instructed
Miss S says that Barclays stopped her from closing her credit card account  even though  she 
told them  of her change  in circumstances. She says it didnt act in her best interests  it 
bullied her into keeping  her account and its actions  were aggressive.
As both parties agree, Miss S made two telephone calls to Barclays to ask it to close her 
account. Barclays has provided call recordings for both calls and Ive listened to them  
carefully.
Having done so, Ive not heard  anything within the calls which  supports what  Miss S says 
happened.
During the first call Miss S explained why she was looking to close her account  her 
promotional rate was coming to an end and shed recently obtained a new promotional rate 
with another card provider and had instructed a balance transfer.
Ref: DRN81750413At no time during this call did the Barclays  representative refuse to close Miss S account. 
Towards the end of the call the adviser said: so you just want me to close the account 
you want to pay (the balance)  now?  And Miss S said No. She asked if once shed paid off 
the balance she could then close the account, to which the representative  replied: Yes 
whenever you pay just give us a call The adviser also made  it clear  that it was Miss S 
choice about whether  she kept the account  open  or whether she closed  it.
There was nothing about this call, which could  reasonably be described as bullying  or 
aggressive behaviour  from Barclays. And Ive heard nothing to persuade me that Barclays  
refused to act on Miss S instructions.
During the second call Miss S made, she repeated the reasons she wanted to close her 
account but that she was interested in staying with / coming back  to Barclays because shed 
enjoyed good  service. The representative  said the account could be left open with a zero 
balance and discussed the potential  for Barclays to provide new promotional  interest rate 
offers in the future, which Miss S could make use of if she kept the account open.  The 
representative also lowered the interest  rate on her account. Miss S agreed to keep the 
account open.
While I accept the Barclays  representative enthusiastically attempted and successfully 
retained Miss S as a customer,  again Ive heard nothing in this call, which  I think could 
reasonably be described as bullying  or aggressive behaviour on the part of Barclays.
But Miss S says that when she complained to Barclays, its complaints handler agreed it had 
acted aggressively  in the calls and is why Barclays paid her some  compensation. 
I can see that in Barclays  written response to Miss S complaint  and during a phone  call it 
had with her around  the same time  Barclays expressed its view of the call and the service  
it had provided. Describing the behaviour  of the representative Miss S spoke to on the 
second phone call it said that, given the situation things needed to be toned  down.  
But I dont agree that Barclays has accepted it acted aggressively towards Miss S during the 
phone calls. Barclays has taken the view that the level of service Miss S experienced wasnt 
what it expected  and it has chosen to pay Miss S an amount of money  as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Whatever Barclays reasons for making this payment, as I said above  I dont think  Barclays  
acted aggressively  towards Miss S or that it bullied  her into keeping her account  open. I also 
think what is important here is that at no time during either phone  call did Miss S tell 
Barclays that her financial  circumstances had changed. And neither did she say nor imply 
that she was struggling financially or in financial difficulty. Miss S said that the only reason 
she was leaving Barclays was because  her promotional interest rate was due to end. I dont 
think its unusual for someone  to move balances around utilising different providers 
promotional interest  rate deals  so this action in and of itself would  not have reasonably 
alerted Barclays to the fact that Miss S circumstances had changed  or that she was or might  
be facing financial difficulty.  
Had Miss S told Barclays she was facing problems,  I wouldve expected it to have acted 
differently. But she didnt, so I dont think  Barclays needs to do anything  more to put things 
right.
Ref: DRN81750414credit limit increase
Miss S has also complained that Barclays increased her credit  limit when it shouldnt  have 
done  again she points  to having told it of her change  in circumstances.
Barclays increased Miss S credit  limit around four months after the phone calls Ive referred  
to above. Ive already said that Ive not seen evidence during the phone calls that Miss S told 
Barclays of her circumstances. And Ive not seen anything to show that she did in the period 
running up to the limit increase.
The terms and conditions  of the account allowed  Barclays to increase the limit provided it 
gave notice that it was doing so. And Barclays has given us account  records  which show  
that it did give Miss S the required notice.
Nothing about the running of Miss S account makes we think Barclays shouldnt have 
offered the limit increase   for example Miss S was making payments  on time and more than 
the minimum payment.
So, again  I find Barclays did nothing wrong  here.
did Barclays treat  Miss S positively and sympathetically?
When either Miss S told Barclays she was in financial  difficulty  or when Barclays  should 
reasonably have been aware that she was, I expect it to have acted positively and 
sympathetically towards her. There isnt a set course of action it has to take, but it should  act 
fairly in the circumstances.
In Miss S case, the first recorded time that she indicated she might  be facing some difficulty  
was around the middle of 2018.  A telephone record shows that Miss S asked about 
repayment plans.  But she declined because of how it might affect her credit  file. The record 
also shows that Miss S said the minimum account  repayment  was affordable.
It appears that it wasnt until the point Miss S made  her complaint to Barclays that following a 
discussion with her, her financial  position  and circumstances were  understood. It was at this 
point that Barclays  offered  Miss S a repayment plan (Miss S declined); it made  the goodwill 
payment referred  to above; it refunded some interest charges; it cancelled an over-limit fee; 
it suspended interest  charges for four months;  and it offered Miss S access  to its financial 
difficulties team.
In light of the actions  Barclays  took, I think it did act positively and sympathetically.  So, on 
the basis that Ive not seen any evidence which leads me to think  Barclays  shouldve acted 
any sooner, theres  nothing more it needs  to do.
conclusion
I am of course sympathetic to the situation  Miss S finds herself in. And if its the case  that 
Miss S is still facing financial problems, Id encourage her to seek help from Barclays as it 
has offered or one of the charitable organisations if shed prefer to speak to somebody 
independently. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think  Barclays  is at fault here. 
Because of this theres nothing more  it needs to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN81750415my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold Miss S complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8175041