K820x#14complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed its bank account without 
sufficient attempts to contact it.
background
The investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-HSBC was carrying out a safeguard exercise  and wanted to confirm  the information  
it held about S.
-It wrote to S to tell it about the exercise  and then to ask it to complete information 
online.
-As it did not receive a response  it then wrote to say the account  would be closed 
after two months. It was closed and HSBC sent S a cheque for the outstanding 
balance.
-HSBC says that there would have been online  banners visible when S accessed 
online banking alerting S first to the information requirement and later to the 
upcoming closure of the account.
-We could not tell HSBC what processes to put in place and it could not be 
responsible if post had not been delivered  to S.
The director  of S did not agree. He said that HSBC failed to ensure the letters were received; 
for example by sending them recorded delivery.  The fact S continued  to use its account  
ought to have alerted HSBC to the need  to contact it in other ways. He did not see the online 
banner. And for HSBC  to close the account  without having been in touch with S resulted in 
severe inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has explained  it was carrying out a wide ranging safeguard exercise to help protect its 
customers from fraud and financial crime. The letters about  this were correctly  addressed  to 
S and Ive seen systems notes showing that they were sent. I dont doubt what S says that 
these were for some reason not seen. But I dont have a basis to find HSBC  responsible  for 
that. And I cant say that it ought  to have sent these by any other method.
The letter requesting S provide information online  was dated 20 December 2017  and said 
that S had 60 days to do so. HSBC has shown that this was to have been supplemented by 
the online banners. And that S logged onto online banking  nine times  during the period.  
When HSBC did not get a response  it wrote to S on 23 February 2018 saying that it would 
be closing the account and giving  two months  notice. It then wrote on 14 May 2018 
enclosing a cheque  for the closing balance.
The first contact from S recorded  about this was on 14 June 2018 when it was unable  to 
access its account. Ive listened  to that call. And the company  secretary then said she had 
no knowledge about the account closure.  When told about the letters she said that there  
might be some letters in a drawer that the director had not yet come and looked at. She 
wanted to know  why HSBC had not phoned  about  this requirement when it hadnt received a 
Ref: DRN87699172response. I note there is no further  record of a call between HSBC and the director  when  he 
says he received poor customer service so I cant fairly consider that.
I understand the difficulty for S caused by the bank account being closed and it then needing 
to make alternative arrangements. But it sent the required notice  of the closure  under the 
terms and conditions of the account.  So Im afraid I dont  have  a reasonable basis  to find 
HSBC made  a mistake. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8769917