K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Easy Home Loans  UK.com (EHL) mis-sold her a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  when  she took out a loan.
background
In 2006 Mrs S took arranged a loan through EHL - a broker.  At the same  time she took out a 
single premium PPI policy. The policy wouldve  covered  Mrs Ss loan repayments if she was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought Mrs Ss complaint  should  be upheld  because he didnt think the cost 
of the policy  had been made clear enough.
EHL disagreed, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided Im going to uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
When EHL sold the policy  it needed  to make  sure Mrs S was given  enough information  
about the policy to decide whether  it was right for her. That information also had to be clear, 
fair and not misleading. One of the key pieces of information Mrs S needed  to understand is 
the cost of the policy.
For Mrs S to be fully informed on what the PPI policy was going to cost I think she would 
need to understand the following:
She was borrowing extra  money  to pay for the PPI premium;
Interest would be charged on the cost of the premium;
What the charge  for interest would be;
What the cost of the PPI premium was; and
A comparison of what the borrowing would be with and without  PPI added.
I have seen a copy of the credit agreement which lists the broker  as EHL and is signed by 
Mrs S. Besides the amount of the loan and PPI premium I dont think the credit  agreement 
makes any of the above requirements very clear. Its not really explained that Mrs S is 
borrowing more to pay for the PPI or that interest is being charged  on it. And to find out what  
the cost of the interest is on the PPI premium is by itself,  Mrs S wouldve had to work this out 
for herself.
Ref: DRN82851822I dont think this is presenting information  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way. So I dont 
think EHL did give Mrs S clear enough information on the cost of the policy  before she 
agreed to buy it.
If Mrs S had been given  all the information on the cost of the policy  I dont think  she wouldve 
agreed to buy it. I say this because  she wouldve  understood that she was borrowing money 
to pay for the policy premium and interest was being charged on this. I dont think  Mrs S 
wouldve thought  the benefit  she got from the policy was worth the money.
As a consequence Mrs S has lost out as a result of EHLs failings in this case.
what EHL should  do to put things right
Mrs S borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger  than it shouldve  been and 
she paid more than she shouldve each month. So Mrs S needs to get back  the extra shes  
paid. 
So, EHL should:
Work  out and pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid each month on the loan 
and what she wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mrs S paid each month from when she paid it 
until she gets it back. The rate of interest  is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year 
from then on.
If Mrs S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, EHL can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires EHL to take off tax from this interest.  EHL must give Mrs 
S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
So for the reasons Ive explained,  I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against Easy Home Loans 
UK.com and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019. 
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8285182