K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  account in 1999 it was sold 
in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her account. Mrs C has told us she didnt complete the application  form herself, 
and simply signed  where  she was directed  to. I dont know  for certain  what was said at the 
time the policy was sold, but FICL  has provided a copy of Mrs Cs application form. 
The form had a separate section for PPI that Mrs C signed separately  from agreeing  to the 
credit to take the policy. So I think its likely  Mrs C would have realised the PPI was separate  
to her account, that FICL  made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs C has told us she was entitled  to generous  sick pay from her employer and had 
some savings. But the PPI would have  paid out in addition to Mrs Cs sick pay and for longer 
than she would have  received full pay, it would also have allowed Mrs C to keep her savings 
in place to be used towards  other  essential  expenses.
 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Cs circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN84462192my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8446219