K820x#14complaint
Miss X complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC wont attempt a chargeback under the 
VISA chargeback scheme.
background
In June 2018 Miss X bought some goods  online  and paid £100 using her Barclays  debit  
card. She says that she hasnt  received  the goods and the merchant agreed  to refund 
the money, but she hasnt received that either. She has asked Barclays  to attempt a 
chargeback but it has refused to do so. She says that, according to Barclays  website, 
she thought she had 540 days to make  a claim.
Barclays says that Miss X asked it to attempt a chargeback too late. The transaction 
took place on 25 June but she didnt  contact it until 3 November 2018.  As this is more  
than 120 days allowed  by the scheme it cant attempt  a chargeback.
The investigator didnt  think Barclays had made  a mistake. He said that Miss X needed 
to make her claim within 120 days of the problem because Barclays  had to attempt a 
chargeback within the timescales set out by VISA.
Miss X responded to say, in summary,  that she didnt know  that she only had 120 days  
to ask Barclays to make  a claim for her. If she had been then she said shed  have asked 
it within the timeframe. She thought she had 540 days.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the VISA card scheme rules Miss X is entitled  to ask her card provider  Barclays 
- to try and recover all or part of the money she paid, provided  there  is evidence  of a 
breach of contract.  A chargeback isnt a right under  the scheme. Its good practice for a 
bank to try if it has a good reason  and there  appears to be a fair chance  that a 
chargeback request may succeed. But banks dont have to raise chargebacks if it looks 
likely that the cardholder would lose.
VISA regulations require that the cardholder must have tried to resolve  the dispute first 
so that the retailer  has a chance to correct  the problem. Miss X has complained to the 
merchant and asked  for a refund because  she was sold something that, she says, it 
hasnt delivered.  If the goods arent  delivered then a cardholder is entitled to ask for a 
chargeback to be attempted.
There is a strict time limit, which  is set by VISA, of 120 calendar days for a bank to raise  
a chargeback against a transaction paid for by a debit card.  This commences from the 
date of processing or the date the cardholder expected to receive the goods. 
Miss X says that the Barclays  website  isnt clear about when she had to ask the bank to 
raise a claim  because it mentions 120 days or 540 days to do this. Under the VISA  rules  
Miss X had 120 days from the date of purchase  (or due delivery date) to make the claim. 
Ref: DRN85415772Miss X placed her order on 25 June 2018  for next day delivery,  which meant she had 
claim before 24 October 2018. 
The 540 days that Miss X has mentioned  relates  to the date of paying for a contract  to 
provide services at a future date (for example  concert tickets  or a holiday),  so it doesnt 
apply to her transaction. I think Barclays website, with the examples it gives, makes this 
clear.
I know Miss X will be disappointed but, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider 
that Barclays has made any mistake when  it told her she was out of time under the VISA 
rules to make a claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss X to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 April 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8541577