K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc changed the mobile  phone  number 
connected to his current account.
background
In October  2018, Mr D found out that his mobile phone number was changed on his account 
profile  Mr D told us the incorrect mobile  number was his brothers mobile number (who 
also holds an account with RBS). 
When Mr D complained to RBS, they said this change  happened in September  2017. Mr D 
was unhappy  as he said it wasnt him who changed  the mobile number on his profile. Mr D 
asked RBS how the change happened without his consent and he wanted to know  who 
made the change. Mr Ds mobile number has now been changed  back to the correct 
number.
RBS apologised  for the inconvenience and assured Mr D that his account  hadnt  been 
compromised by any fraudulent activity.  They  say they didnt have anything  on their systems  
to show how the mobile  number  was changed and who it was done by. But Mr D was 
unhappy that text message alerts about  payments being made by him, to new payees, had 
been sent to the incorrect mobile  number.  RBS said account information  wouldnt appear in 
the text message alerts that are sent when  a payment is sent to a new payee. RBS 
acknowledged that they didnt respond to Mr D after he had made a call to them and paid 
£50 compensation  in recognition of this. 
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. She said because  there  wasnt  any evidence  to 
show how the change  was made,  she didnt  think RBS could,  or should, do anything  more. 
She was satisfied the £50 offer of compensation was fair. Mr D didnt agree with this and 
said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
Since then,  RBS increased its offer to £150  compensation in recognition  of the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to Mr D by this error. Mr D didnt accept this so the case  has been  
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from the information RBS have sent me that the mobile  number was changed  in 
September 2017  neither  party have disputed this. So what  Ive looked at is whether  RBS 
have done enough to investigate how the change was made  and if they have fairly 
compensated Mr D for any distress  and inconvenience caused.
Mr D says hes never changed the mobile  number on his account. RBS say there are three 
ways a customer can change or update their personal details.  These are by:
-going into branch  along with personal ID
-calling  customer services  where a customer would  be required to provide certain  
characters from their online and telephone  banking passwords,  or
Ref: DRN89343622-using online banking  services  where a customer would require  their debit card,  
debit card pin and card reader.
So Im satisfied RBS has security measures in place to try and prevent account profile 
details being changed, for example, by a fraudster.  RBS have also done several searches 
of their systems  to try and get to the bottom  of how the mobile number was changed. 
Theyve also checked if theres been  any form of audit trail which would show a change 
being made to the mobile number  either  by Mr D or someone else. But theres no evidence  
to show who changed the mobile  number on Mr Ds account, why, or how exactly it was 
changed. Unfortunately, there may be occasions where a bank may experience 
unexplainable system glitches or human error plays  a part. And in this case, Ive got nothing 
to show it may be something other than this. So Im satisfied RBS cant  do anything  more to 
identify how the number was changed.  And,  importantly, there  hasnt been  any suggestion 
that Mr Ds account has been compromised  as a result of this apparently erroneous change
Mr D was concerned that his personal banking transactions were made available  to his 
brother. Mr D told us that his brother was receiving  text message alerts whenever  Mr D set 
up a new payee  and made  a payment to the payees from his account.  Mr D also told us that 
his brother knew the text message alerts were  meant for Mr D because  the payee  names  
were that of their other family members.  
RBS have sent us examples of the text message alerts Mr Ds brother would have received. 
I can see that this would have confirmed a new payee had been set up along with the name 
of the new payee and the date of the payment. I cant see that the alert would have included  
specific information about the amount paid or any other details about the account. When  we 
spoke to Mr D, he confirmed the text messages his brother received didnt include more 
information other than what  was in the new payee  text message alerts. Based on this, Im 
satisfied specific information  about Mr Ds account information wasnt  shared in the text 
message alerts. 
Mr D says he finds it hard to believe it may have  been a system error and I can appreciate  
he wants to know the reason  this error  occurred.  But as Ive explained, I think its reasonable 
to believe this has been down to an unexplainable glitch.  I havent seen anything to show me 
this change was made  by RBS.
Whilst I appreciate there wasnt specific account  information in the text message alerts; 
Mr Ds brother was still made aware  of payments  he was making  to their other family 
members - Mr D said this caused some embarrassment  for him at the time. I can understand 
Mr Ds frustration in wanting to find out how this change was made and RBS havent  been 
able to give Mr D a reason. I can understand this hasnt  filled Mr D with reassurance.  So for 
these reasons I think £150  offered  by RBS is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note RBS offered  Mr D £50 compensation for not responding  to his telephone  call which  
was paid to Mr D last year so I havent  reviewed this element of his case.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Ref: DRN89343623Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8934362