K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that Ageas  Insurance Limited rejected a theft claim the named driver 
made under his car insurance policy. Ageas cancelled  his policy as if it didnt exist. 
background
Mr E bought a car insurance policy  with Ageas. In October 2018  the named driver made a 
theft claim under the policy. 
Ageas rejected the claim  because  it discovered  that Mr E wasnt  the registered  keeper of the 
car. Mr Es partner was  and finance for the car was in his partners name. The named 
driver is a relative of Mr Es partner. Mr E lives at a different address to his partner.
Ageas said Mr E had misrepresented the facts. It said if it had known he wasnt the 
registered keeper  of the car, it wouldnt have provided insurance cover. So it cancelled  his 
policy as if it didnt exist from the renewal  date of July 2018.  It refunded  Mr E the premium 
hed paid since that date. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably.  In a call in July 2017 where Mr E 
changed car, the agent made a key statement to Mr E that he was the owner and keeper of 
the car to which he said yes. And at renewal, the Statement of Fact clearly showed that 
Ageas recorded  Mr E as the owner and registered keeper of the car. As Mr E didnt tell 
Ageas this information wasnt correct, the investigator thought  Ageas decision to reject the 
claim and void Mr Es policy  was reasonable. 
Mr E doesnt  agree  that the agent was clear enough  in the call in July 2017.  And he says the 
Statement of Fact recorded that there was a registered keeper   not that he was the 
registered keeper.  He said his partner doesnt drive  and gifted the car to him. He therefore 
had a valuable  interest in the car and believed he was insured. 
So Mr E would like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
As Ageas voided Mr Es policy from the renewal date in July 2018, the key information  
relates to the documents it sent him at this time. Even so, I think from the call recording in 
July 2017, Mr E was given a clear statement to reply  to. The agent said: 
and just to confirm that this vehicle erm obviously you would  be the registered owner 
and keeper of this vehicle, also the main  user erm that you dont have access to any 
other vehicle  and that theres no other vehicle in the household.. is that right?
Mr E answered; thats correct.
In June 2018, Mr Es broker sent him a renewal reminder and included a Statement  of Fact. 
This document listed that Mr E  as the policyholder   was the proposer.  It said the proposer 
was the owner  and under the statement registered keeper it said yes.
Ref: DRN88615442Mr E says he understood this to mean that the car had a registered keeper  not that he 
needed to be the registered  keeper. But I dont  agree. As it clearly  recorded that Mr E was 
the policyholder  and proposer, I think it was clear  that the information in the statement 
related to him. The way Ageas set out the facts under which  it agreed  to provide insurance 
for Mr E is standard across the insurance  industry  and so I dont think  it was unusual  or 
unclear. 
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says a 
consumer should  take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to the insurer. If an 
insurer decides to void a policy and therefore  reject a claim,  it needs to show  us that it 
wouldnt have provided cover if it knew the correct information.
An insurers  underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive information - and so we cant 
share this with Mr E. But we can look at the information provided to check  that the insurer 
treated Mr E fairly. Im satisfied  from the underwriting information Ageas has provided to us 
that it wouldnt have  provided insurance for Mr E if it knew  he wasnt  the registered  owner  
and keeper of the car. 
Mr E was advised to check  the details on the Statement of Fact were correct  at renewal. So I 
think he had a further opportunity to let Ageas know that the information  wasnt correct.  
I realise Mr E will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Ageas decision to reject  
his claim and cancel  his policy as if it didnt exist was reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8861544