K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy at how Kindertons Ltd dealt with his claim for accident  damage to his car.
background
Mr Ss car was parked and unattended in a public car park,  when it was hit by another car. 
But there were two witnesses to this accident, and they left a note on Mr Ss car. Mr S 
reported the accident to his insurer, and he was referred to Kindertons  because they dealt 
with claims against third party insurers on the insurers behalf.
Kindertons contacted the witnesses and obtained  statements  from them. But there wasnt 
enough information for Kindertons to be able to trace  the person who caused the damage to 
Mr Ss car (the other driver) - they didnt  have a complete registration number for the other 
drivers car. And there wasnt  any CCTV that covered the area of the car park where  the 
damage to Mr Ss car happened.
Because the other driver  couldnt  be traced,  Kindertons were unable  to make a claim against 
the other drivers insurance. So the claim was sent back  to Mr Ss insurer and they dealt with 
it as a claim against Mr Ss own insurance.  This affected his no-claims discount (NCD).
Mr S has complained that Kindertons were inefficient in pursuing his claim, and they didnt 
put any effort into tracing the other  driver. He also feels that Kindertons missed  the 
opportunity to obtain CCTV evidence showing he wasnt  at fault. Because he didnt do 
anything wrong, Mr S doesnt think he should  lose his NCD.
Kindertons accepted there was a small delay in their process, and they didnt update Mr S as 
often as they shouldve. But Kindertons offered Mr S £50 compensation for this delay. Mr S 
rejected this offer and brought his complaint  to the Claims Management Ombudsman (a 
Financial Ombudsman  Service) for us to investigate.
Our investigator found that Kindertons had acted reasonably in contacting  the witnesses, 
and in trying  to obtain evidence to be able to make  a claim on Mr Ss behalf. But he didnt 
think they should be held responsible for the fact that the other driver couldnt be traced. He 
also felt that Kindertons couldve provided  a better  service, but he thought the £50 they 
offered was reasonable compensation for the delay  theyd caused. So he didnt think  they 
should do anything  more. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigator. He says Kindertons didnt do enough  he had 
minimal contact with them and needed  to chase them  repeatedly. He also doesnt believe 
that they contacted the witnesses, instead preferring to settle  the claim at the expense of his 
NCD. He also doesnt believe that one missing  digit in the other drivers number plate  
made them impossible  to trace.
Ref: DRN85898112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen that Mr S sent an email to Kindertons on 8 September 2018,  explaining the 
circumstances of the accident.  This email described the other  drivers  car as being grey, but 
the make  or model was unknown.  He also confirmed the letters in the other drivers number 
plate, but the numbers  were unknown. Ive also seen that Kindertons  obtained statements 
from the independent witnesses, but these didnt provide any further details about the other 
drivers car. They also tried to get CCTV evidence,  but there wasnt  any available. So 
Kindertons couldnt  trace the other driver.
When Mr S gave  the details of the accident to the Financial Ombudsman Service  on 30 July 
2019, he provided one of the missing numbers  from the other drivers number plate. I havent 
seen that Mr S ever provided this additional information to Kindertons.  But, had he done  so, it 
wouldnt have meant that Kindertons  would  have been able to trace the other driver  a vague 
description of a car and a partial number plate is not enough  to be able to definitively identify  a 
car without  other evidence. And there was no other evidence  i.e. CCTV evidence, available.  
Because Kindertons  couldnt trace the other driver, so couldnt claim against their insurance, 
they werent able to deal with the repairs to Mr Ss car. They  passed the claim back  to Mr Ss 
insurers for them to deal with matters.  I dont think they did anything wrong by doing  so.
In their complaint  response letter, Kindertons have admitted they didnt keep  Mr S updated 
on a regular basis, and that there was a delay in the processing of his claim.  They  
apologised for this and offered Mr S £50 compensation. I agree that Kindertons couldve 
given a better service,  but the lack of updates and delays made no difference  to whether 
Kindertons could trace the other  driver or not. So I also agree that the £50 Kindertons 
offered was reasonable compensation for the service they provided.  Its for Mr S to decide 
whether to accept  this or not.
I understand that its frustrating for Mr S that hes going to lose his NCD when he wasnt  at fault 
for an accident that caused damage to his car. But hes made a claim on his insurance, and the 
cost of repairing  the damage  cant  be recovered from any third party.  So Mr Ss insurer is liable 
for the costs of repair, and this will affect his NCD. I cant hold Kindertons at fault for this  the 
decision as to how a claim  will affect an NCD is one for the insurance  company to make.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Kindertons  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8589811