K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a First Additions  
packaged bank  account in 2007.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Ts complaint and eventually reached the conclusion  Barclays  
hadnt mis-sold the account. Mr T disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ts complaint.
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. But having done so, Im 
not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr T was given a clear choice in taking the First 
Additions account. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And in working out what  I think  is 
most likely to have happened, I have to think about everything Ive been told together  with 
everything else Ive been  provided  with and see how this fits with what  I do know. In other  
words, what l have  to do, in this case,  is decide  what I think  is most likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what Mr T and Barclays have been able to provide me with.  
The information Ive seen suggests  Mr T upgraded  to the fee paying First Additions  account 
from a free one. Mr T says he was told he had to have  the First Addition account to get an 
overdraft. But Mr T already had an overdraft  and his limit wasnt increased when he 
upgraded either. So I think  its unlikely that Mr T wouldve upgraded just to get an overdraft 
he already had. And overall Ive not seen enough  here to be able to safely  say that Mr T only 
took the First Additions account because he was misled into believing he had to have it.  
Having thought about everything Ive seen, I think  its likely that Mr T was given a clear 
choice on upgrading. And I think its most  likely that he chose to upgrade as he, at the time, 
thought the benefits it included might prove useful to him.  
Barclays has said that as it sold the First Additions  account to Mr T over the phone,  it 
wouldve recommended  it to him. As Barclays recommended  the account  this meant it had to 
make a fair recommendation by taking adequate  steps to ensure it was a reasonable fit for 
Mr Ts circumstances.  Having thought  about Mr Ts circumstances  and his actions after the 
upgrade, I dont think that Barclays recommending  the First Additions account  was wholly 
unfair or inappropriate. I say this because  I think that Mr T appears to have had a want and a 
need for the main benefits on this account. 
I do think that its likely Barclays representative did talk about the benefits and at least 
provided an overview of what  the accounts  included. After all they were looking to make the 
accounts appear as attractive as possible so Mr T would  agree to pay the monthly fee when 
he most likely  knew  he didnt have  to.
The First Additions account  included a £100  interest  free overdraft portion and a substantially  
reduced interest rate on amounts over this as long as the consumer stayed within  their 
agreed limit. Mr T had an overdraft. His account ledgers show that he used it. So Mr T ended 
Ref: DRN81014152up making interest savings on his overdraft as a result of having the First Additions account. 
The account  also included  mobile  phone insurance. And as Mr T had a mobile phone at the 
time the account  was sold, I see no reason why he couldnt have used this cover.
At the time it was recommended, the First Additions  account was the cheapest account in 
Barclays range to include the benefits Mr Ts circumstances  and actions since  taking it 
suggest that he wanted and needed.  And as this is the case,  I think  that the First Additions 
account was a reasonable fit for Mr Ts circumstances and I dont think  that Barclays made 
an unfair recommendation to him. 
Mr T may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, believe that he hasnt  benefitted from his 
packaged account as much  he had hoped and expected to when he initially upgraded. And 
given what he mightve read and heard  about  packaged accounts  in general, I can fully 
understand why this might lead Mr T to believe  that his account was mis-sold. But as 
explained earlier, I have  to base my decision on what I think  is most likely to have  happened  
at the time of the upgrade and I cant use hindsight when reaching my conclusion.  
I think its likely that Mr T chose to upgrade having been told what the account came  with. So 
although Mr T may now think that the First Additions  account hasnt proved to be value for 
money and he may be wondering why he took it in the first place, I dont think that Barclays  
did anything significantly wrong  here.  I want to reassure Mr T that having  looked at all the 
information provided and thought about  everything  hes said, I dont  think that Barclays  has 
treated him unfairly. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8101415