K822xcomplaint
G, a limited company,  complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a payment to be made 
from its bank account  in error.
background 
G originally had two directors both of whom  were reported as being persons  with significant 
control through share  ownership. Only one (director  1) was given the right by G to authorise 
payments from the mandate  on the bank account  at Barclays. But in error  the other director 
(director 2) was given  the ability to make payments using online banking. G disputes a 
payment director 2 made in this way to himself for £2,844 on 2 February 2019. G says that 
he ceased to be a director and shareholder on 30 January 2019.
Barclays didnt agree that it should  refund this money to G. It said that this was a civil dispute  
between G and director 2 and should  be pursued with the relevant authorities. It offered G 
£100 for the inconvenience caused.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays  pay G higher compensation of £250 for 
inconvenience and it agreed to do so. But he said that it wasnt possible  for this service to 
determine whether  director 2 was entitled to these funds or not given his former role. He 
noted that G said it had contacted the police who stated they couldnt take the matter 
forward. G wasnt in contact with director 2 and had considered legal action in the courts.
G didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A key issue  here is whether or not G has made a loss due to this payment being  made.  Not 
only about whether  director  2 ought to have been  able to make the payment in the first 
place. If for example  this money was refunded by Barclays to G but was always due to 
director 2 then G would be unjustly enriched.  
The reasons  to think that this money  may have been  legitimately due stem  from director  2s 
role and control of G until just before the payment was made. Ive seen from the bank 
statement of G that he had received payments through online banking  in January 2019  
and Barclays has confirmed that none of these other  payments were made by him. I havent  
been given evidence to show what the agreement was between  him, director  1 and G when 
he ceased to become  a director and relinquished his stake in G. I note that director  1 is now 
the sole director and listed as the only person with a significant control of the company. Its 
clearly not possible  for director 2 to be asked to give his account of what  happened  as part 
of our consideration of this complaint from G.
That makes  the circumstances around  this payment difficult  to determine. Thats why 
Barclays said this was a civil matter between G and director 2. 
And Im afraid Im not persuaded  on balance, based on the available evidence, that G has 
made a financial  loss as a result of this payment being made.  I do agree that G has been 
caused inconvenience and I think that the agreed  offer of £250 in recognition of this is fair. I 
Ref: DRN88884152wont be asking Barclays to do anything  further.  If G doesnt accept my decision it remains  
free to pursue this matter  in court subject to any relevant  time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Barclays  Bank  UK PLC to pay 
G £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8888415