K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr G under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in August 2017.  Some faults were diagnosed with the car in 
February 2018  including that the engine was overfilled with oil and contaminated with fuel 
and that one of the injector  cylinders was injecting excessive amounts of fuel. Mr G 
complained to MotoNovo Finance about  the faults with the car and it asked him to have the 
car inspected by an independent expert. Mr G also complained to this service.  The car was 
inspected by an independent expert in June 2019.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that he 
hadnt seen any evidence to confirm that the faults with the car were  present at the point of 
sale.
Mr G has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that:
the cars  MOT test certificate  has expired and hes made  a statutory off-road  
notification for the car and it needs  to be scrapped;
damage was done to the car when the faults  were diagnosed in February 2018 and 
other things were wrong with the car;
the warranty company  refused to look at the car without him paying for an inspection;
the car needs  a new engine and its not normal for a car to need a new engine after 
only driving 24,000 miles - and the whole  exhaust  system  needs to be replaced too; 
and
6,000 miles within six months is fair usage of the car; 
and he asks about the impartiality  of the independent expert.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G. Whether or not it was of satisfactory  quality 
at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage of the car and 
the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr G was more than seven years 
old, had been  driven for 18,200 miles and had a price of £4,695. Satisfactory  quality also 
covers durability which means that the components within the car must be durable and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of 
factors. 
The car was supplied to Mr G in August 2017 and faults with it were  diagnosed in February 
2018  about six months  later. The cars  mileage was recorded at the time of the diagnosis 
as being 24,263 miles so Mr G had been  able to use the car to drive  about 6,000 miles. Its 
not usual for a cars engine  to fail when its only been driven for that mileage  but an engine  
can fail for many reasons and MotoNovo Finance was responsible for ensuring that the car 
was of satisfactory quality  when  it was supplied to Mr G.
Ref: DRN84349422Mr G complained to MotoNovo Finance  about the faults with the car in February 2019 and 
he arranged for a garage to inspect the car in March 2019. It said that the engine wasnt 
starting, there was a lack of compression on one cylinder, the exhaust was blocked  and a 
new engine  was required.
MotoNovo Finance then arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert in 
June 2019. The inspection report is from an organisation that is widely  accepted as providing  
independent evidence about  cars and the credentials of the inspector  are included in the 
report. Ive seen no evidence to show that the independent expert isnt impartial.
The experts report concludes:
 taking into consideration the prolonged time and mileage elapsed since the point  
of finance inception there is no evidence at this stage to suggest that the conditions  
were developing at that time. The vehicle has also covered over 6'000  miles since 
that point. Clearly, the vehicle could not travel such distance in its present state.
Theres no dispute that the cars engine has failed and needs to be replaced. Mr G says that 
the car now needs to be scrapped. MotoNovo Finance would only be liable for the faults with 
the car if it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr G. He was able to drive 
more than 6,000 miles in the car in the six month period between August 2017, when the car 
was supplied to him, and February 2018, when the faults were diagnosed. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that the cars engine was faulty  when the car was supplied to Mr G - and I 
find it to be more likely than not that he wouldnt have been able to drive  6,000 miles in the 
car if the engine had been faulty when the car was supplied to him.
Mr G says that the car was damaged when it was diagnosed in February 2018 and hes 
complained about the warranty company. But those arent issues for which MotoNovo 
Finance would be liable.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that the car was faulty when it was 
supplied to Mr G and I consider that MotoNovo Finances response to his complaint has 
been fair and reasonable. I sympathise with Mr G for the difficulties that hes had with the car 
and the financial  losses that hes been  caused. But I find that it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable in these  circumstances for me to require MotoNovo Finance to take any action  in 
response to Mr Gs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8434942