K821x#15Complaint
Mrs N complains that Fernleigh  Wearden & Company provided unsuitable advice to transfer 
her deferred  occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits to a personal pension  plan, 
causing her to lose valuable guaranteed benefits.
Background
Mrs N had deferred benefits in a former OPS that she left in March  2007.
In early 2014 Mrs N sought advice  from Fernleigh  Wearden about transferring deferred OPS  
benefits to a Personal Pension.
Fernleigh Wearden  completed a fact-finding questionnaire with Mrs N on 18 March  2014 that 
recorded the following details about Mrs N:
Married with two children
42 years  old
Working full time
In good health
Expecting to retire  at 65 
In possession of a second defined  contribution  pension in her current job
Wanted to break all ties with the provider of her OPS  and have a pension with more  
flexibility and control
Fernleigh Wearden  completed a risk profiling questionnaire with Mrs N and summarised her 
attitude to risk (ATR) as being  cautious (low-medium). This meant they considered  that she 
was an investor willing  to accept somewhat lower returns  in order to ensure greater safety  of 
her investment. They identified her capacity for loss as being  moderate. 
Mrs Ns OPS had a normal retirement  age of 65, and included  the option of early retirement 
from age 55 with a reduced pension. Mrs Ns OPS had quoted  a transfer  value of 
£154,080.88 that was guaranteed until 23 April 2014.
Fernleigh Wearden  had two Transfer Value Analysis  (TVAS) reports  prepared  for Mrs N. The 
first by Prudential on 4 February 2014  gave a critical yield of 7% a year. The second  report 
dated 31 March  calculated the critical yield as 7.2%  a year. The critical yield was the amount 
that the investment needed  to grow by each year for Mrs Ns transferred pension  to match 
the benefits of her OPS. 
Fernleigh Wearden  recommended  that Mrs N transfer for deferred OPS  benefits to a 
Prudential Flexible  Retirement Plan. Mrs N followed Fernleigh  Weardens  advice  and 
transferred her OPS.
In 2019 Mrs N became  concerned that the advice shed been given wasnt in her best 
interests and she thought  the value of her pension had gone  down. So she complained  to 
Fernleigh Wearden  in March 2019. They didnt uphold her complaint. They explained that 
her personal  pension had averaged 5.3% a year fund growth  up until July 2018  the point at 
which Mrs N switched advisers. Fernleigh Wearden said, we believe that for a low/medium 
risk investor, your returns of 5.3%  a year have been  excellent.  They maintained that their 
advice had been suitable for her needs at the time.
Ref: DRN80612302Mrs N wasnt happy with Fernleigh Weardens response and brought  her complaint to our 
service. Our investigator looked into her concerns and upheld her complaint. He said:
The critical yield was too high for there  to be a reasonable chance of improving on 
the benefits Mrs N was giving up
The scheme she was still contributing  to was a defined contribution scheme, with no 
guaranteed returns,  meaning  the defined benefits  in her OPS  were valuable  to her
Mrs N wanting to break ties with her former company were  not a good enough 
reason to recommend the transfer
The improvement  in pre-retirement death  benefits werent  a good enough reason to 
transfer
Fernleigh Wearden  didnt accept our investigators  view. They  were  concerned  that his view 
didnt acknowledge  the following reasons that made the transfer suitable: 
Mrs Ns husband had enough pension benefits, so a spouse  pension wasnt 
important, but lump sum death  benefits  were
The client wanted to transfer the plan.
The critical yield wasnt important in this case because Mrs N didnt intend to take a 
secure joint life annuity, 
They showed past performance of the funds theyd chosen as evidence  that 
achieving the critical yield was possible.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Fernleigh Wearden  have expressed the view that Mrs N wanted  to transfer her OPS.  
Theyve pointed out that shed previously sought  advice to transfer from her OPS in 2009 
when the transfer value  was only £92,000. And they say that she wanted to go ahead  with it. 
I understand their view,  but the transfer didnt happen in 2009. This complaint isnt about 
whether Mrs N wanted to transfer her OPS though.  I accept that Mrs N approached 
Fernleigh Wearden  for advice about  whether to transfer. This complaint is about whether the 
advice Fernleigh Wearden gave her about  her transfer was suitable. The fact that five years  
before Fernleigh  Wearden  advised  Mrs N, shed also considered  transferring her OPS 
shouldnt have influenced their advice on suitability  in 2014.
Fernleigh Wearden  sent Mrs N a recommendation letter  on 7 March  2014 which  identified  
the following:
Mrs N wished to break  ties with her OPS scheme and move the pension under her 
control. It indicated that Mrs N had lost faith with her current  scheme  based  on her 
past treatment.
Mrs N wanted flexibility at retirement  in how the benefits get paid, rather than having  
to take an annuity.
The tax-free cash element of her pension wasnt a priority.
Lump sum death benefits were  important.
Mrs N signed the recommendation  report on 17 March  2014 and Fernleigh Wearden have 
shown us a letter from Mrs N of the same  date responding to the report. I appreciate that 
Mrs N has said she doesnt remember the contents. But I think that its more likely than not 
Ref: DRN80612303that shed seen and had the opportunity to have considered  the contents of the 
recommendation.
This recommendation letter  explained  that the growth needed  to match  her OPSs benefits at 
normal retirement age was 7.2%. This figure factored in the charges that would be incurred 
by transferring and seems  to be the critical  yield figure  that Fernleigh Wearden have relied 
on in making their recommendation.
The advice Mrs N was given was during  the period when  the Financial Ombudsman Service 
was publishing discount rates on our website for use in loss assessments where a 
complaint about  a past pension transfer  was being  upheld . Whilst businesses werent 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they 
provide a useful  indication  of what growth  rates wouldve been considered reasonably  
achievable when  the advice was given in this case. 
The investment return  (critical yield) required to match  the occupational pension  at 
retirement was quoted  as 7.2%  per year when the transfer went ahead. This compares with 
the discount rate of 5.8%  per year for about  23 years  to retirement in this case. 
The critical yield figure was merely  the figure to provide the same benefits Mrs N was giving 
up. So Mrs Ns fund had to grow by more  than 7.2% for her to improve  on the benefits  she 
was giving up and make a transfer financially worthwhile. But the critical yield was already 
higher than the discount rate.
Fernleigh Wearden  advised Mrs N on funds they say were suitable and have shown us the 
TVAS had information on their past performance  as evidence that growth of the critical yield 
was achievable.  But the evidence theyve shown  us was incomplete  as one of the selected 
funds didnt have  past performance  information. And one of the funds  that they advised to 
put 40% of the transfer value into, only had past performance information  from 2013 and 
2014. So, this information only really allowed Fernleigh Wearden to consider overall past 
performance of the proposed investment, for the previous year. I dont  think  that alone would 
have been a reasonable way to decide  what would be achievable returns over the course of 
the following  23 years.
The Illustrations that were  used by Fernleigh Wearden also showed 2%, 5% and 8% to 
indicate comparative returns based  on low, medium and high investment returns.  These 
were the illustrative  growth rates that the regulator set. These should have provided an 
indication on what was expected in terms of growth. Based on these Mrs Ns pension 
needed to consistently achieve  the high growth rate for this transfer to ever be of financial 
benefit to her.
Mrs N completed  Fernleigh Weardens Retirement risk profile  questionnaire.  This captured  
her responses to show her attitudes towards  investment risk and from this 
Fernleigh Wearden  determined that Mrs N was a cautious investor with a moderate  capacity 
for loss on this pension.  It indicated she would be prepared  to invest  in low to medium risk 
funds. It was signed by Mrs N on 17 March 2014. The way that Fernleigh Wearden 
approached determining Mrs Ns attitude  to risk was fair and the conclusion reached was 
reasonable. I think that Mrs Ns attitude to risk for this investment was, more  likely than not, 
low to medium.
I think that achieving  returns in excess of 7.2% with low to medium  risk investments was 
unlikely. The risk of returns falling below the critical yield and therefore resulting in Mrs N 
Ref: DRN80612304being worse off in retirement were considerable. Just matching the critical yield should have 
seemed unlikely to Fernleigh  Wearden. I think only a high-risk investor would have been 
prepared to take the level of risk needed  to have the chance of exceeding the critical yield. 
Which Mrs N wasnt.
For the above reasons I think that the advice that Fernleigh Wearden gave Mrs N should  
have made  it clear that a transfer of her OPS benefits would more likely than not leave her 
with less valuable  pension benefits in retirement. I dont think  that it did. 
Fernleigh Wearden  wrote to Mrs N on 11 February 2014. That letter provided a comparison 
of Mrs Ns OPS  benefits and the potential returns from the proposed  personal  pension. It 
indicated a potential  pension at age 65 of £15,665.76 plus a tax-free cash  lump  sum of 
£44,261.60 from her OPS. It compared  that with an annual income at age 65 of £19,400 plus 
a tax-free lump sum of £121,000, assuming the personal pension  achieved 7% growth a 
year. But in this comparison the indicated income for the personal pension offered no 
incremental increases  or provision for dependants on Mrs Ns death. It wasnt  a like for like 
comparison, so I consider  it was misleading.  It caused Mrs N to believe at an early  stage that 
she was likely to have  a better pension from the transfer.
In Fernleigh Weardens recommendation letter of 7 March 2014, they said: the critical yield 
is achievable based on the requirements  you have given and would fall within the 
boundaries at which  we would view as reasonable growth expectation from a low-medium 
risk investor over a 22 year term. For the reasons Ive given I dont think the facts made this 
statement correct.
Fernleigh Weardens  final recommendation  in their letter doesnt comment further  on the 
likelihood of Mrs N being better or worse off in retirement. I think  the earlier  letter of 
11 February would have caused  Mrs N to think she would be better  off by transferring. And 
there was nothing in the final recommendation that would have dissuaded  her from that 
view. And I think that there should  have  been.  
The final recommendation starts out by pointing out that Mrs N should consider putting life 
cover in place instead of transferring her pension. This indicates  that Fernleigh Wearden 
believed that Mrs N didnt  have adequate life cover for her needs and they reasonably  
argued that a life policy would be a better way to provide a lump sum death  benefit than to 
transfer her OPS. They were aware that Mrs N had cancelled  a life insurance  policy  they had 
previously put in place for her. 
Fernleigh Wearden  said as you are refusing  to take out life cover and have cancelled your 
existing cover against my recommendations,  I do now believe that transferring your 
OPS to a personal pension type arrangement clearly meets your needs  and objectives . 
Mrs N has queried this in her complaint and provided evidence that she and her husband  did 
in fact have life insurance in place at the time.  But I cant say that Fernleigh Wearden knew  
about that life insurance. It wasnt on the fact find, and Mrs N signed the recommendation 
and sent an accompanying letter and did not question these statements at the time.
But I dont agree with Fernleigh Wearden that transferring secure OPS benefits became 
suitable because  they didnt think that Mrs N had adequate life insurance. If the pension was 
likely to be financially beneficial to Mrs N, the issue  of death benefit  provision  may have 
supported the recommendation.  But wasnt enough of a reason to make  the transfer 
suitable. 
Ref: DRN80612305Fernleigh Weardens  final recommendation  also referred to one of Mrs Ns objectives being  
to transfer away from her deferred scheme at all costs and have the pension  under her 
control. They say that this supported  the advice they gave. I understand that Mrs N has 
subsequently told us that she wouldnt have  had any overwhelming need to leave her OPS. I 
can see that it was documented in the fact find though, which  I think  Mrs N must  have  seen 
in order to have  signed it. I think its more likely than not that the issue  was discussed  in 
some way for Fernleigh Wearden to have included  it in their fact find. 
I dont think Fernleigh Wearden were right to attach a great  deal of weight to that though.  
Their advice neednt  have been swayed  by emotional considerations Mrs N may have had 
about the way her ceding scheme  had been managed.  Fernleigh Wearden  have  presented 
no evidence to suggest that they considered that Mrs Ns OPS was unlikely to be viable in 
the future.  So this shouldnt have been a consideration to override a financially unviable  
transfer, and Fernleigh  Wearden should have explained that.
Fernleigh Wearden  have also pointed out that Mrs N wanted flexibility in how she took her 
pension in retirement. She was still a long way from needing to decide  about how she took 
her benefits  though. She could have  always chosen  to transfer her OPS benefits  nearer  her 
retirement age if she wanted  to access her pension in a way other than that offered by her 
OPS. So I dont think transferring in 2014 was the best way to achieve this aim unless it also 
seemed likely that she would improve her benefits  in retirement as a result.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think that the advice Fernleigh Wearden gave Mrs N was 
suitable. I think that the likelihood  that she would be worse off in retirement was high, and 
this should have been clearly spelled out to her. 
Fernleigh Wearden  have argued that Mrs N wanted this transfer though. They  have cited  the 
advice she sought  in 2009 to transfer,  as evidence  that she wanted  to transfer anyway. I 
think it is fair to say that Mrs N was interested in the idea of transferring her pension.  But she 
wasnt qualified to know what  the full financial implications of the transfer were.  So it was 
Fernleigh Weardens  responsibility to advise her if it was in her best interests  to transfer.
Ive considered what position Mrs N would likely be in if Fernleigh Wearden had advised  her 
not to transfer.  Ive considered the other reasons  that Fernleigh Wearden identified  that may 
have made  Mrs N want to transfer. But I cant say that its more likely than not that Mrs N 
would have insisted  on the transfer  had she been  told that matching her existing benefits 
was in fact very unlikely.
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Fernleigh Wearden to put Mrs N, as far as 
possible, into the position she would  now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
I consider she wouldve  remained  in the occupational scheme. Fernleigh Wearden must 
therefore undertake  a redress  calculation in line with the regulators pension  review guidance 
as updated by the Financial Conduct  Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ns acceptance of the decision.
Ref: DRN80612306Fernleigh Wearden  may wish to contact  the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mrs Ns contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS 
or S2P). These details  should then be used to include a SERPS  adjustment in the 
calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme  on 
Mrs Ns SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ns non-protected rights  pension plan. The payment should allow  for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  The compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension  
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
Mrs N has since  transferred  her pension to a different scheme. If a payment into Mrs Ns 
pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications,  it should  be paid directly to 
Mrs N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for income  tax that would  
otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have  been  taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been  taxed according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement   
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs N within 90 days of the date 
Fernleigh Wearden  receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision.  Further  
interest must  be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess  of 90 days, that 
it takes Fernleigh Wearden to pay Mrs N.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont  apply. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
I require Fernleigh Wearden to pay Mrs N the compensation amount as set out in the steps 
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000 I additionally require 
Fernleigh Wearden  to pay Mrs N any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £160,000 I only require 
Fernleigh Wearden  to pay Mrs N any interest as set out above  on the sum of £160,000.
If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that Fernleigh  Wearden 
pays Mrs N the balance.  I additionally recommend any interest  calculated  as set out above  
on this balance to be paid to Mrs N.
If Mrs N accepts my decision, the money award  is binding on Fernleigh Wearden. My 
recommendation is not binding on Fernleigh Wearden. Further,  its unlikely that Mrs N can 
Ref: DRN80612307accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs N may want  to consider 
getting independent legal  advice before  deciding  whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Fernleigh Wearden & Company  
to compensate Mrs N in the manner I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8061230