K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H said Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them  payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage in 1996. 
background
Mr and Mrs H complained  about PPI policies sold to protect their mortgage. The first policy  
started in 1996  and the second was taken out in 2006.
This decision only deals  with the PPI policy which was sold in 1996.  A separate  decision has 
already been made for Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about the PPI policy  which was sold to 
them in 2006.
The borrowing  was taken  jointly by Mr and Mrs H. But the PPI just covered Mr H for 
unemployment.
Following our adjudicators  investigation,  this complaint has now been passed  to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs H  Ill explain 
why. 
Mr and Mrs H have said that they were told it was mandatory to take out the PPI in order  for 
their mortgage application  to be accepted. Nationwide  doesnt  have  a copy  of the paperwork  
that was likely completed when the mortgage  and PPI was taken out.  
Nationwide had to make it clear the PPI was optional and that Mr and Mrs H agreed to take 
it. Neither partys been able to give us much detail  about how the PPI was sold to 
Mr and Mrs H. I think  its understandable that neither  party has any detailed information  
about how the PPI was sold because  the sale was over 20 years ago. 
But because of this Ive not seen  enough  to say its likely Nationwide did do things to make 
Mr and Mrs H think the PPI wasnt  optional.  Or that they didnt agree to take it at the time.
Mr and Mrs H say Nationwide recommended the PPI to them, Nationwide  says it didnt. But 
even if I accept it did, it seems to have been right for Mr and Mrs H based on what Ive seen 
of their circumstances  at the time.  For example Mr H wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. Ultimately, the mortgage  was a big and long 
Ref: DRN83229212term commitment, secured on their home. Mr and Mrs H were  responsible  for making the 
repayments and the consequences of failing to do that couldve been very serious.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs H. But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H 
because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Nationwide didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs H has said - including what theyve said about their 
savings and family helping out if needed. The PPI gave them  cover  for up to 24 months if 
Mr H was out of work, and it wouldve paid out in addition  to any saving  they held  meaning  
the savings couldve  been used for other essential living costs. And support from others,  no 
matter how well intentioned, isnt guaranteed. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2019.
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8322921