K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about four instalment loans that he took out with Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable.
background 
Mr D was given four instalment loans by SL from June 2016 to August 2017. A summary  of 
the loans taken out by Mr D is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of loan Repayment date
Loan amount 
Repayment amounts  
1. 23/6/16 21/9/16 £1,000 13 weekly repayments of  
£110.08
2. 10/12/16 13/3/17 £100 26 weekly repayments of 
£7.37
3. 20/3/17 8/1/18 £1,000 12 monthly repayments of 
£166
4. 10/8/17 Unpaid? £500 12 monthly repayments of 
£83
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr D for details  of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Ds declared 
expenses to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit check. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loans 3 and 4 should be upheld.  He said that 
proportionate checks would have shown Mr D was having problems managing  his money  
and he had borrowed from other payday  lenders.
SL disagreed and said that Mr D had a declared  disposable income of £1,675 and it also 
applied extra safeguards and buffers to this amount. It said that its credit checks didnt 
demonstrate that the loans werent  affordable  or sustainable at the point of application.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to SL on 26 September  2019.  I summarise my findings:
I noted that when  SL lent to Mr D the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
Ref: DRN88185122But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr D could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ds complaint.
I could see that SL had made  a number of checks before  it lent to Mr D. It had asked him for 
details of his income  and expenditure. Mr D had declared his monthly income as £6,500 and 
his expenditure  as £500 before Loan  1, and his income as £3,375 with expenditure of £500  
before Loan 2. And SL had increased Mr Ds declared expenditure in its assessments of 
Loans 1 and 2 to reflect what  it had seen in its credit checks  and internal models. 
I also noted that SL had checked Mr Ds credit  file before agreeing  to the loans. SL hadnt 
provided this service with its credit  checks.  Mr D had provided this service  with a copy of his 
credit report.
I could see that Loan  1 was for £1,000 repayable by 13 weekly  repayments of £110.08.  I 
noted that Mr Ds disposable  income after SL had applied  its safeguards  was £4930.74.
I thought that the checks SL had carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. The 
repayments that Mr D had needed  to make on Loan 1 were very modest  compared  to the 
income that hed declared to SL. 
Ref: DRN88185123So given Mr Ds repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and that this was his first loan with the lender,  I dont think it wouldve been  
proportionate for SL to ask him for the amount  of information that would be needed  to show 
the lending was unsustainable.  
And Id said that there wasnt anything in the information Mr D had provided or the 
information SL shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what he was saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong to give Loan  1 to Mr D.
But Id noted from SLs notes that Mr D had missed some repayments  in the first month of 
his loan. But hed said that he didnt know that his repayments were  weekly. Hed then 
missed other repayments as hed said that he was waiting  for money  to come into his 
account. But hed then repaid the loan around  three months after hed taken out, around the 
due date. 
I thought SL might have been  concerned about  Mr Ds repayment history  on Loan  1. But the 
amount Mr D had asked to borrow on his next loan was much  smaller than before so that 
might have helped  allay some of the concerns SL might  have  had at the time.  Loan 2 was for 
£100 to be repaid by 26 weekly instalments of £7.37. SL had said that Mr D had a 
disposable income of £1,627.17 before Loan  2 after its safeguards had been applied to 
Mr Ds expenses. 
Overall, I thought that the checks SL had carried out before agreeing  Loan  2 were 
proportionate. The repayments that Mr D needed to make on Loan  2 were very modest 
compared to the income that hed declared to SL. 
So given Mr Ds repayment  amounts, and what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate for SL to ask him for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr D had provided or the information  SL 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
he was saying. So I didnt  think  SL was wrong  to give Loan  2 to Mr D.
But despite  Mr Ds relatively large disposable  income, it appeared hed missed  two weekly 
repayments on Loan 2. Hed then repaid Loan 2 around three  months early. I thought that 
behaviour might have  caused SL some concerns about Mr Ds finances. And a week  after 
repaying Loan 2, Mr D had applied for Loan 3. That was for £1,000  to be repaid by 12 
monthly repayments of £166. So he was committing to making his repayments over a far 
longer period than previously. I could also see that SL had added  an additional amount of 
around £631.15 of safeguards to Mr Ds declared expenses. So it was aware  that Mr D 
wasnt declaring all his financial  commitments.
I appreciated that SL had asked Mr D for his income and expenditure. And Id noted that 
Mr Ds disposable income was £1,043.85 after SL had applied its safeguards. But I thought 
his erratic repayment history and the pattern and increasing amount of Mr Ds borrowing with 
repayments over a long period were such that it wasnt reasonable for SL to rely on that 
information. So I thought that should  have prompted  SL to have made some additional 
checks such as asking  Mr D for more information  about his other short term borrowing 
commitments.
Ref: DRN88185124Id looked at Mr Ds credit report and bank statements to see what proportionate checks 
might have shown. Id not seen any other  short term loans repayable  at the same  time as 
Loan 3 on the credit report  or the bank statements. So I couldnt safely say that SL shouldnt 
have given Loan 3 to Mr D. 
Loan 4 was taken out whilst  Loan 3 was still outstanding. It seemed it was borrowed after 
Mr D had missed  the due date for his August repayment on Loan 3. I thought that Mr Ds 
missed repayment history on each of his loans might have suggested by the time of Loan 4 
that Mr D was facing financial problems and should  have  caused some concerns to SL about 
Mr Ds finances. 
Loan 4 was for £500 with 12 monthly repayments  of £83 which  needed to be made  around  
the same  time as the rest of the repayments on Loan 3. And Mr D was again committing to 
repay Loan 4 over a long period. I could also see that SL had added  an additional amount of 
around £494 of safeguards to Mr Ds declared  expenses. Although that was the lowest 
amount of safeguards SL had added to Mr Ds expenses for all his loans, I thought  by the 
time of Loan  4 SL should have been more than concerned that Mr D still wasnt  declaring all 
his commitments. And I thought SL ought to have asked why a person with an apparent  high 
level of disposable  income was coming  back to it for a £500 loan whilst his previous loan 
with SL was still outstanding.
I thought SL ought reasonably to have suspected that Mr D was likely having trouble 
managing his money. So I thought  it would  have been proportionate for SL to have 
supplemented the information it held by again  asking  Mr D some  more detailed questions, 
such as whether he was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same  time.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Mr D had two short term loans with other 
lenders which  together with Loan  3 were repayable at the same time as Loan 4. Id seen 
these on Mr Ds bank statements. I thought it would have been  clear to SL if it had made  
proportionate checks that Mr D was facing significant problems  managing his money and 
that he was unlikely to be able to repay  Loan  4 in a sustainable  manner.  So I didnt think it 
was reasonable  for SL to have given  Loan  4 to Mr D.
Subject to any further representations by Mr D or SL my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to put things right as 
follows. My redress  was drafted on the basis that Loan 4 hadnt  been repaid. Id said that it 
would be helpful  if SL could provide up to date information on the balance  for Loan 4 in its 
response to my provisional  decision.
putting things right  what SL needs  to do
with regard to Loan 4, refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on this 
loan;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 4;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and 
pay any balance to Mr D; 
Ref: DRN88185125remove all adverse  entries about  Loan 4 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mr D responded to my provisional decision to say that he had no outstanding  loans  with SL. 
He said that SL had confirmed this to him by phone.
SL responded to say that it agreed with my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
I note that Mr D said that he had no outstanding loans with SL. Ive not seen SLs current  
transaction statement for Loan 4. But I think that the directions in my redress  will provide the 
correct outcome whether or not Loan  4 has already been repaid in full. 
Otherwise given that SL has agreed  my provisional  decision and Mr D has given me no 
other information to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require SL to pay Mr D 
some compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN88185126my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.With regard to Loan 4, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr D has paid on 
this loan;
2.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 4;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  4 
and pay any balance  to Mr D; and
5.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 4 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr D a 
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8818512