K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the way Aviva  Insurance Limited  proposed to repair 
their property following  a subsidence claim under their buildings  insurance policy.
background
In 1999 Mr and Mrs M made  a subsidence  claim. Its not clear  who their insurer was at the 
time but it accepted liability and carried out repairs.  The repairs  included underpinning  and 
replacing all internal floors.
In 2009 Aviva was the insurer under their policy which was arranged  by an intermediary. 
Mr M complained to Aviva that the floors hadn't been installed properly. He said there was 
an unpleasant  smell coming from the floor. First of all Aviva referred him to the people  who'd  
laid the floor but they denied liability. It later appeared the company had stopped trading. 
Then Aviva said the problem was rising damp and that wasn't covered by their policy.
In 2018 Mr M contacted  Aviva again.  At first Aviva didn't accept liability  but it later changed 
its decision. It accepted liability  for making  good  the defective repairs on the basis  of the 
agreement in place  when it took over being the insurer for the brand of policies  which 
includes Mr and Mrs M's. It appointed  a loss adjuster and a structural engineer. They  
concluded that there was either  no damp-proof membrane (DPM) at the property or the one 
installed in 1999  hadn't been installed properly.
Aviva agreed to install a liquid DPM across the floors.  Mr M wasn't  happy  with that. He was 
told a liquid DPM would last around  10 to 20 years as opposed to a plastic  one which would 
be a permanent solution.
Mr and Mrs M complained to this service.  I issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
was minded to uphold  the complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
It appears Aviva probably wasnt Mr and Mrs Ms insurer in 1999 but they had kept the 
same policy since 1999. I think it was the right thing to do for Aviva  to accept liability for 
making good the defective repairs carried out by the original insurer.
Going back to the 1999 repair,  building  insurance policies are generally policies of indemnity. 
That means they aim to put the policyholder back in the position  they were  in just before the 
loss or damage happened.  Taken literally, that means putting them back in the exact same 
position. When an insurer chooses to settle a claim by repair,  I expect it to indemnify the 
consumer by carrying out an effective and lasting  repair. Thats what I think  is a fair and 
reasonable approach to repairs.
To be effective the repair must fully put right the damage. And to be lasting it must do so for 
an appropriate amount of time. Whats appropriate will depend on whats  being repaired. For 
example, basic decorations might be expected to last a few years whereas  a re-built  floor 
would usually be expected to last many years, perhaps decades.
Mr and Mrs M started experiencing  problems with their floor in 2009 if not earlier. That 
suggests to me that an effective and lasting  repair wasnt  carried  out in 1999.  The original 
repair works in 1999 referred to a liquid  DPM being laid. Aviva  has argued  that its only liable 
to install  a liquid DPM now as a plastic DPM would put Mr and Mrs M in a better position 
Ref: DRN88898892than they were in 1999. I dont think thats  the correct approach.  Instead  they should  do 
whatever should  have  been done in 1999  to carry out an effective and lasting repair.
Avivas loss adjuster  says that a liquid  DPM will last around 10 to 20 years,  as opposed to a 
plastic DPM which would be a permanent  solution.  In the circumstances I dont think a repair 
to a concrete  floor lasting between 10 to 20 years  would be a lasting repair. I think  in order to 
treat Mr and Mrs M fairly Aviva should  carry out a lasting repair, particularly in view of the 
inconvenience theyve  suffered over the last ten years. I understand that means  installing a 
plastic DPM and so thats what Im minded to require it to do.
I can see that Mr and Mrs M have suffered a degree of inconvenience and stress by reason 
of Aviva not accepting liability  to repair  their floor in 2009 when  they first raised the issue and 
also by proposing a repair  that wouldnt be lasting. In the circumstances I think Aviva should  
pay £500 compensation to Mr and Mrs M for the trouble and upset its caused them.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional  decision. Aviva said it would like to carry out a more  
in depth survey as to the cause of the damp problem. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent considered Avivas arguments  as to why its investigations to date might not have 
been sufficiently  thorough  in establishing the cause of the dampness. This is because I 
consider it too late for it to raise this now. Aviva has been involved since 2009. Thats more 
than enough time for it to carry out whatever investigations it considered necessary. 
Avivas accepted that there was an issue with the work carried  out in 1999 and that it should 
put that right. The only outstanding issue  is whether it should do that by installing a plastic 
DPM or the cheaper  option of a liquid DPM. For the reason explained in my provisional 
findings I think Aviva should  carry out a lasting repair and of the two options  available only a 
plastic DPM would provide a lasting repair. 
Aviva hasnt commented on my proposed award of £500 compensation for trouble and 
upset. So I see no reason to change that in this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Aviva  Insurance Limited to install a plastic damp-proof 
membrane in Mr and Mrs Ms property as part of its repair works and to pay them  
compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset its caused them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 July 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8889889