K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr H are unhappy  with the compensation offered  by Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) which relates  to a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  associated  with 
their mortgage.
 
background
Mrs and Mr H took out their mortgage in 1993 and at the same time bought a PPI policy  
associated with the mortgage and paid for by monthly premiums.
In 2014 Mrs and Mr H complained the PPI had been  mis-sold. This complaint was not 
upheld. In 2019 they then complained about  the excess commission  they may have paid as 
part of their PPI premiums.
Nationwide agreed  some excess commission had been paid and refunded £29.74  
compensation for the non-disclosure  of the commission levels. It said the PPI had been  paid 
from 1993 to 2008  and based its calculation on this period.
Mrs and Mr H were not happy with this as they said they had paid the PPI for longer than 
Nationwide had included  in their calculations. They brought their complaint to this service 
and provided some  additional  evidence to show they were  still paying the PPI in 2018.  
When the evidence  was sent to Nationwide it agreed they may have paid the PPI for longer 
than had been thought  and a new calculation and offer was made.  Nationwide  then offered 
an additional  £172.15 in compensation.
Our adjudicator said they thought this was fair. Mrs and Mr H were still not happy and asked 
for an ombudsman to review their complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs and Mr H first complained to Nationwide in 2014 that they had been  mis-sold PPI. When  
Nationwide didnt agree  the insurance  was mis-sold Mrs and Mr H brought their complaint to 
this service. We reviewed the facts  and said we didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mrs and Mr H made  no further contact about the mis-sale at that time. Therefore as they did 
not request any further review of the mis-sale five years ago in 2014, I cannot now consider 
any issues relating  to the mis-sale.
When Mrs and Mr H complained in 2019 that they had paid excess  commission on the PPI 
premiums Nationwide  considered this and agreed that some excess  commission  had been 
paid between 1993 and 2008.  So it offered and repaid to Mrs and Mr H £29.74.  This is not a 
refund of all the commission, only the amounts that was commission and profit  share over 
50% of the premium.  This is in line with the Financial Conduct Authority requirements  
following a Supreme Court Case.
Mrs and Mr H felt they had paid PPI until 2018 and after bringing their complaint to this 
service they provided  some documents that supported  that fact. When  these documents 
Ref: DRN81613602were reviewed by Nationwide it agreed PPI had been paid from 1993 to 2018  and not only 
until 2008 as it had originally thought.
Nationwide recalculated the excess commission and this came to a total of £134.41 for the 
whole period. It also worked out 8% simple  interest  for all the time Mrs and Mr H had been 
out of pocket which came to £81.83  before tax. So in total Nationwide said £218.24 was due 
to Mrs and Mr H in compensation, after tax this came to £201.88. But as it had already paid 
them £29.74 the total new offer to be paid was £172.14.
Mrs and Mr H think this is incorrect. They wanted  to know why the original offer for 15 years  
only came  to £29.74  yet the period of ten years from 2008  to 2018 came  to £172.14. 
The offer from Nationwide was clear  it was only the excess  commission, as Ive indicated 
above the amount over 50% of the premium, that was being calculated and refunded. 
Importantly Nationwides  level of commission  wasnt  always  above 50% of the premium. In 
the early years it was substantially less than 50% - meaning Nationwide  didnt have  to refund 
any of the commission  for those  periods.  Mrs and Mr H have been  sent details of the levels 
of commission for each year. So I hope  they can see that although the first offer was for a 
period of 15 years, the level of commission was much lower  and so the refund of 
commission due was far less.
I have looked  at the calculations provided in some  detail  and I am satisfied  that these fairly 
calculate the excess commission for the whole period the PPI was active. It is also fair that 
the amount originally  paid to Mrs and Mr H is deducted from the amount calculated as due in 
total for the whole period  of the PPI.
Therefore I think what Nationwide has done  is fair to settle this complaint and Im not telling it 
to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think what Nationwide Building Society has offered in 
total to Mrs and Mr H for the excess commission on the PPI premiums they paid is fair and 
Im not telling it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8161360