K820x#14complaint
Mr F complained about the amount of compensation paid to him by National Savings and 
Investments (NS&I).
background
Mr F decided to cash in his premium bonds. He was expecting the money to be paid directly  
into his bank account but he instead  received a warrant  which  he had to pay into his account 
himself. Mr F complained to NS&I that the funds werent paid directly into his account.
NS&I contacted Mr F and apologised for the error   it said the payment should have been 
paid directly into his account.  To resolve  the matter NS&I offered Mr F £89.18 (£39.18 for the 
interest lost on the money over the four days,  and £50 compensation for the trouble caused). 
Mr F accepted NS&Is offer.
The funds cleared the following day (four days after the warrant  was banked) and Mr F used 
some of the money  to buy shares.  But the price of the shares had increased during the four 
days it took for the funds to clear.  Mr F feels NS&I should compensate him for the difference  
in the share  price.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He felt that although NS&I had 
made a mistake the compensation it had already offered was fair. As Mr F had never said 
anything to NS&I  about needing the money  urgently or that he was going  to use it to buy 
shares, our investigator didnt think Mr Fs loss could reasonably have been foreseen  by 
NS&I. Mr F didnt  agree with our investigator  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before deciding what compensation is fair I normally need  to decide whether a financial 
business did something wrong  or treated a customer unfairly. That isnt necessary  here 
because NS&I have  already accepted  that it should  have paid the money directly into Mr Fs 
bank account.  So I just need  to consider  the compensation  issue.
I usually award compensation for two things  the trouble and upset caused to a consumer, 
and/or any financial  losses suffered by a consumer. I think  Mr F was inconvenienced by the 
funds not being paid directly into his account  (for example,  he had to go into his bank to pay 
the warrant in), but Im satisfied the £50 offered by NS&I is sufficient compensation for this. 
Mr F would also have  suffered a small financial loss over the four days due to not being able 
to earn interest  on the money.  But again  Im satisfied the £39.18 offered by NS&I is sufficient 
compensation for this.
I can see how Mr F might have suffered a loss due to the price of the shares increasing  
either he could have bought more shares  for the money he spent or he could have paid less 
money for the number of shares he bought. But Im not persuaded that is enough  for me to 
make NS&I pay compensation.
I think the fact Mr F bought the shares the same  day that the funds cleared sufficiently 
shows that he probably would have bought them four days  earlier if he could have  
Ref: DRN88599932although I havent seen anything showing that the price of the shares increased during that 
four day period. I wouldnt expect Mr F to have  told NS&I  what  he intended  to use the money 
for (after all, thats  his business), but there was no indication during the phone conversations  
Mr F had with NS&I that he needed the money  urgently or that he might suffer a loss if there  
was a delay. So I agree with our investigator that any loss Mr F suffered was too remote  and 
unforeseeable in respect of the delay that occurred  for me to reasonably make NS&I pay 
compensation.
With that in mind, I conclude that NS&Is compensation offer was fair.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8859993