K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has applied a default notice on his
business account, held by him as a sole trader.
Mr D is assisted in this matter by his wife, Mrs D, but for ease, Ill refer to Mr D throughout
this decision.
background
Mr D had a HSBC business current account  as a sole trader  which also had a linked savings
account. In September 2018,  Mr D opened  a new business account because  he had
registered his business as a limited company.
In November 2018, Mr D said he visited a HSBC branch to arrange several things on his
accounts. As part of his requests, he said he asked  for the overdraft facility on his sole trader
account to be transferred  to his new limited business account. He said he also asked for the
sole trader and linked  savings accounts to be closed. HSBC closed the savings account but
the sole trader account remained open  and the overdraft facility wasnt transferred.
In January 2019, HSBC started the process to close Mr Ds sole trader  account because
he had failed to send information which theyd  been  requesting since  July 2018. However,
because the account was overdrawn, they were  unable  to complete the closure.
In February 2019,  HSBC  sent a pre-demand letter to Mr D saying his sole trader account
was overdrawn.  Mr D complained and said he didnt  know the account was still open
because he thought it had been  closed following his request in November 2018.  HSBC
investigated his concerns  and said his savings account had been closed but they had no
record of his request  to close the sole trader account.
In March 2019, HSBC sent a final demand letter  requiring him to pay the outstanding
balance by 20 March  2019. Mr D contacted HSBC to pay the outstanding balance  on
25 March 2019  but he complained that it was unfair  that he needed to pay fees and interest
on an account he believed was closed. The HSBC advisor told Mr D that he shouldnt  pay
the outstanding balance  until his complaint  had been looked  into further and he should
expect to receive a final response letter (FRL), in the following five days.
On 27 March 2019, HSBC sent Mr D a FRL saying  they had no record of his request to close
the sole trader account in 2018.  The letter  also directed  Mr D to settle the account as a final
demand letter had been issued. The account  wasnt settled by the final demand deadline of
7 April 2019 so HSBC transferred Mr Ds sole trader account  to their collections department
and issued a default notice.
Mr D complained to HSBC and said he didnt receive the FRL following the call. He said he
had every intention  to pay the balance however he didnt because  he was advised  not to by
the HSBC advisor.
HSBC accepted the advisor told Mr D not to settle  the balance  however they said she did not
discuss the further action concerning the outstanding balance.  HSBC also confirmed an
overdraft renewal fee was not applied to the account  and they had refunded  all account fees
from March 2019.
Ref: DRN82835602Unhappy with their response, Mr D referred the complaint to our service.  The investigator
upheld the complaint. They believed  Mr D didnt  receive HSBCs  final response letter and felt
Mr D wouldve settled the account had it not been  for the advice of the HSBC  advisor.  The 
investigator believed  it was unfair for HSBC to apply the default  notice  and said they
should remove it from his credit file and pay £100  for the trouble  and upset caused.
HSBC disagreed with the investigators  opinion for the following reasons:
-Mr D didnt close the sole trader account in November 2018;
-They issued a FRL after the call in March  2019;
-Mr D hadnt settled  the account by the final demand deadline  so the default was 
correctly applied; and
-They disagreed  with the compensation award of £100.
In December 2019, I issued my provisional  decision and I said I didnt intend to uphold  
Mr Ds complaint for the following  reasons:
closure of the account
Mr D said when he visited a HSBC branch in November 2018, he asked for £3,500 to be
transferred from the savings account to the sole trader account because  it was overdrawn.
He said he asked for the overdraft facility to be transferred  to the new limited business
account and he wanted to set up the direct  debits on this new account. He also says he
wanted both sole trader accounts to be closed.
HSBCs records  show Mr Ds request for the savings account to be closed but it doesnt
show his request for the sole trader account to be closed.
At the time of Mr Ds visit in branch, I can see the sole trader  account  was overdrawn by
approximately £1,500. If Mr Ds transfer  request of £3,500  was carried out, this wouldve  led 
to the account  being  approximately £2,000 in credit which doesnt support Mr Ds comments 
that he asked  for the account  to be closed at the same time.  Had the account been in credit 
and Mr D wanted to close it, he wouldve needed to provide  instructions  to HSBC about  what 
to do with the outstanding  money. The account  would  need to be brought  to zero before it
could be closed. There is no evidence  from HSBC or Mr D to suggest  such a conversation
took place.
Given Mr D wanted to set up direct debits and standing orders  on his new limited business
account, I believe it is more likely  than not, he requested for this money to be transferred
from his savings account to the new limited business account so there were sufficient funds.
HSBC has confirmed the £3,500 was transferred to Mr Ds limited business account.
Even if I was satisfied Mr D had requested for the sole trader  account to be closed and
HSBC had made an error in not doing so, I believe it wouldve  been  reasonable for him to
know the account remained open and the £3,500 had been transferred to the wrong account
 his limited business  account. In this circumstance,  Id have  expected Mr D to get in touch
with HSBC to let them know that a mistake had been made and his instructions hadnt been
followed but I cant see any record that this happened.  I say this because  transactions were
made by him in December 2018 which is after the date he said he asked for the account to
be closed. Mr D was also sent an overdraft renewal letter  in January 2019. Although this was
sent in error by HSBC, this wouldve shown the account was still open.
Ref: DRN82835603On this basis, I am not persuaded Mr D made  a request for his sole trader current  account to
be closed and its reasonable  to expect he wouldve been aware the account was still open.
I appreciate Mr D was ill over this period of time and I understand this wouldve been a 
difficult time so his attention may not have been on the management of his accounts. 
However I have to decide if HSBC has done  something wrong  and, if so, what  it needs to do 
to put things right. In these circumstances,  Im not persuaded that HSBC has done anything 
wrong.
settling the account
HSBC sent demand  letters in February and March  2019, asking Mr D to settle the account.
Both demand letters state the balance owed  and the deadline by which it must be paid.
I have listened  to the call Mr D had with HSBC  in March 2019  following the issue  of the final
demand letter. It is clear he was willing to settle  the account balance and I am satisfied he
had the means  to do so. However  he was unhappy with the charges.
The HSBC  advisor  told Mr D not to settle  the account until his complaint  had been
investigated further. This is not in dispute. She also said he should  expect  to receive a letter
in response to his complaint within five days, which I can see HSBC sent. Mr D said he didnt 
receive this FRL. On balance, I think it is more likely that he did receive the
letter. I say this because  it was correctly addressed to him and he had received many of
HSBCs other correspondence so there is no reason  to suggest why this letter wasnt 
received.
However, even if I was satisfied Mr D didnt receive the letter  which  to be clear - isnt the
case in this particular  matter, I think it wouldve been  reasonable for him to contact HSBC to
find out what was happening given he was told he should expect  to receive  a response
within five days.  This wouldve been even more important given the upcoming final demand
deadline in April 2019. Had he done so, he wouldve been made aware  of HSBCs response.
While I appreciate the circumstances Mr D now finds himself in, I cant  say HSBC has done
anything wrong. They  issued two demand letters requesting for the sole trader account  to be
settled by a set deadline. When  Mr D complained, they said they would  investigate  his
complaint and respond within  five days, which they did. As the account was not settled by 
the final deadline, I dont think HSBC did anything  wrong by issuing a default notice against  
Mr D.
response to my provisional  decision
Both parties  were invited  to comment on my provisional decision. HSBC  provided no 
comment. Mr D maintains that he asked for the £3,500 to be transferred from his savings to 
the sole trader account and then asked  for it to be closed.  He said he believed the account 
closure had taken place because he received a letter  in January 2019 confirming the same 
and he said he no longer had access to the account via internet banking.  
Mr D said he never  received the FRL sent in March 2019. He believes  HSBC has treated 
him unfairly  because they gave no consideration to the fact that he was in and out hospital  
during this period. Lastly Mr D said he has always  paid his bills, he has never defaulted and 
he tried to sort the issues  out with HSBC before the default was issued.  
Ref: DRN82835604my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr D has mentioned receiving  a closure  
letter for the sole trader account in January 2019.  However despite our requests, he has not 
been able to provide a copy of the same and HSBC  has no record of this letter. HSBC has 
said the internet  banking  facility for the account  was still available during that period and I 
have no reason to doubt this wasnt the case.  So Im still not persuaded Mr D made a 
request for his sole trader current account  to be closed and I believe it wouldve been 
reasonable for him to be aware the account was still open.  
I am satisfied HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the account and I dont 
think they did anything  wrong by issuing  a default notice against Mr D for his sole trader  
account.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8283560