K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy that hes been charged interest by NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua) on a 
default fee plan.
background
I sent my provisional decision to both parties on 24 March 2020. A copy  of this is attached  
below and forms part of this final decision. In it I explained why I thought this complaint 
should be partially upheld. And I said that I felt NewDay should pay Mr D £75 compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused by its poor service, and refund a £10 administration fee he 
was charged (if it had not already done  so).
NewDay accepted  my provisional decision  and said it agreed to pay Mr D £75 
compensation. 
Mr D also responded  to say that he was willing to accept my provisional decision.  Although  
he was disappointed as he felt I had not addressed the matter  of charges he felt were not 
shown on his statements. He also clarified  that NewDay  has already refunded the £10 
administrative charge  incurred when it sent him copies of his statements.
 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I asked our investigator to let Mr D know that I had checked the list of charges NewDay  told 
him had been  incurred  on his account,  and that aside from the typing error I referred  to in my 
provisional decision, I felt these  were shown on his statements.
Mr D hasnt made any further comments, and neither party has put forward any new 
evidence or arguments  for my consideration. It follows that Ive reached  the same  
conclusions that I did in my provisional decision.  I still think it would be fair for NewDay to 
pay Mr D £75 compensation for the poor service hes received.  
my final decision
My final decision is that NewDay Ltd must pay Mr D £75 compensation for the trouble  and 
inconvenience caused by its poor service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81458152copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D is unhappy that hes been charged interest by NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) on a default fee 
plan.
background 
In 2017 Mr D noticed  that his credit card statement showed he was being  charged interest on a 
default fee plan. He hadnt incurred any default charges that he was aware  of, so he contacted 
NewDay. 
NewDay initially  told him it couldnt see that hed incurred any charges  either. But it later sent him a 
letter explaining hed incurred 6 default  charges between 2007  and 2017. It said that 3 of these  were 
late payment  fees, and the other 3 were  incurred when his account balance exceeded  his credit limit.
Mr D said he couldnt see that these charges were detailed on his statements. And he explained that 
he pays his credit  card by direct debit each  month, so he didnt think there could have been any late 
payments. He felt the charges and interest had been added unfairly, and that they should  be 
removed. 
He also said that if any charges were added to his account he thinks  they should have been paid off, 
as he makes the minimum payment required  to the account each month.  
Hes unhappy that NewDay  charged  a £10 fee for sending him copies of his credit card statements 
when he queried the charges. He also says NewDay initially told him that it doesnt have a complaints 
department, and made it difficult for him to raise his concerns with the business.
NewDay said that the charge it had initially told Mr D was from 2017 was actually from 2007.  So the 6 
charges concerned were applied to his account between March 2007 and September 2011. It also 
said that the default fee plan had arisen in January 2009, but hadnt been shown on the reverse of Mr 
Ds statements until July 2017 when the format was updated. It said it could understand why this had 
caused him some confusion, but didnt think it had made any errors.
Our investigator looked at what had happened and didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. She said that she was satisfied the default fee plan was legitimate.  And that NewDay  had 
confirmed the default fee plan would be in place until Mr D paid the balance of his account  in full.
Mr D disagreed with this view so the case has been passed to me to consider. 
He still feels that NewDays definition  of minimum payment implies  that it will include any default  
fees, and therefore doesnt  think that the default fee plan should have arisen. And he says he cant 
see any evidence  of why charges were added to his account in 2009.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
As this complaint relates to matters that occurred  some time ago, I think it would  be helpful  for me to 
clarify here that where evidence is incomplete  or not available; I have to make my decision on 
balance. That is what I think is most likely to have  happened.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far I think this complaint should be upheld in part. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN81458153I appreciate the parties patience whilst weve made further enquiries about  this matter. I can see Mr 
D feels very strongly about this complaint. And I can understand why he has concerns  that he 
mightve been  charged fees and interest  unfairly  here. But I hope he will feel my decision explains  
what I think happened, and why confusion may have arisen.
Looking at the statements for Mr Ds account I can see he incurred an over limit fee on 21 November 
2008. I know  Mr D has doubts that any default fees were  incurred on his account. But Im satisfied 
from his statements that his balance  exceeded his credit limit at this time,  and this fee was legitimate. 
As it is detailed  on the statements hes sent to us, I also think its fair to say that NewDay took 
reasonable steps  to make  Mr D aware hed incurred this fee.
NewDay has evidenced that the default  fee plan on Mr Ds account was created two months later in 
January 2009. I cant see that Mr D incurred any other charges  or fees around this time.  And NewDay 
has explained  that there would have been  a bit of a delay before an initial default fee was converted 
to the type of default  fee plan that is on Mr Ds account.  So whilst its hard for me to be exactly  certain  
what happened given  the amount of time that has passed, I think  its likely  this over limit fee led to the 
creation of the default fee plan on his account. 
Mr D argues that he has always made the minimum  payment due on his account by direct debit. So 
he feels that even if he did incur a default fee it should have been paid off in full by his minimum 
payment the following month, and a default fee plan shouldnt have arisen. Hes referred  us to 
NewDays definition of minimum payment as is currently shown on his statements, which says it will 
be equal to the higher  of £5 or the sum of (i) 1% of the balance shown on your statement (including 
the and interest payable,  Default  Fees and arrears) (ii) the amount of any interest and Default last 
statement plus (iii) the amount of any arrears, which  are immediately repayable.  
Ive considered this point  carefully. But whilst  this definition of minimum  payment is applicable now,  
NewDay has confirmed that it wasnt at the time the default fee plan arose. Its told us that at this time 
the minimum payment was still calculated in line with definition in Mr Ds original credit agreement (of 
which Ive seen  a copy), which says that Each month you must pay at least  3% of the amount  you 
owe us, or £5, whichever is more. If the amount  you owe is less than £5 you must  pay the full amount. 
Your statement will show the minimum  you must pay and the payment date.
NewDay says that in this scenario its likely  the minimum payment wouldnt have been allocated in 
such a way as to clear the default fee in full. And any subsequent  payments would  have been split 
between plan balances  (i.e. the default fee plan and the main standard purchase balance on Mr Ds 
account). As a result  the default fee plan would  not have  cleared in its entirety.  NewDay has 
explained that the only way Mr D couldve cleared the default fee plan completely is by repaying  his 
credit card balance in full.
I understand Mr D has concerns about the amount of interest hes paid on this default  fee plan over 
the years.  But I havent seen any evidence that hes lost out financially as a result  of the way NewDay 
has administered his account here. NewDay has confirmed that interest is charged on the default fee 
plan at the same rate as it is charged  on standard purchases (his main balance). So Im satisfied Mr D 
has not paid any more interest on his account than he would have done even had the default  fee 
been added to his main  balance and not set up on a separate plan. 
Similarly, even if NewDay had allocated the payments he made  to his account in a different manner 
and had treated them as having  cleared  the default fee plan, the main plan balance  on his account 
would have been higher  by an equivalent  amount as a result. So Mr D would  have paid the same 
amount of interest on this increased  balance over the period as he did the default fee plan.
I can see Mr D is very unhappy with the service hes received from NewDay  in relation to this matter. 
Hes told us it took a long time for NewDay to be able to clarify how the default fee plan had arisen, 
and to provide  him information  about  fees and charges  hes incurred on his account.  Hes also 
complained that it charged a £10 fee for sending  him copies of statements when he queried  this. 
Ref: DRN81458154We did ask NewDay if it could provide us with a copy of any records of contact it has had with Mr D 
regarding this matter, but it hasnt done so. However I have  no reason to doubt  what  Mr D has told us 
happened. I understand he also feels NewDay made it difficult for him to complain, and says it didnt 
make him aware it had a complaints department.
I can see NewDay  sent Mr D a letter in February 2018 detailing the default fees that had been 
incurred on his account. NewDay has since advised that it made a mistake when  it said one of these 
fees had been added to his account in March  2017, and that this actually related  to a charge from 
2007. But Mr D says multiple members of staff also confirmed this charge related to March  2017 and 
suggested that the mistake was not adding  the charge to his statement. 
I appreciate Mr D doesnt  have  a lot of confidence that NewDay made  a typing error  here as its now 
said. But having looked carefully  at his account balance  and the interest payments  calculated around 
this time I cant see any evidence a default fee was applied  to his account  in March  2017.
That said I can understand why Mr D is so frustrated about the difficulties hes experienced getting 
clarity about the fees and charges that have been added to his account. And I do think NewDay could 
have provided him with better service here. So to put things  right, I think it would  be fair for NewDay to 
pay him £75 compensation  for the inconvenience,  trouble and upset  its poor service  has caused him.
Mr D has argued  that NewDays  inability  to clarify charges and money  owed has meant he wasnt 
able to ascertain what he actually owed it, or to clear his balance in full. I can also see he is unhappy  
NewDay didnt put this account on hold whilst  this matter was being looked into. However I have to 
consider that Mr D couldve  made  payments to his account and continued to query this default  fee 
plan afterwards. Or, even  if he wasnt comfortable clearing the full balance  under these  
circumstances, he could have paid some  amount towards the balance and reduced the interest 
charges that were continuing to accrue if this was of concern to him. So whilst  Im sorry  to disappoint  
Mr D, I dont think I can fairly ask NewDay to reimburse him all of the interest that was applied to his 
account whilst this complaint  has been on-going.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
NewDay Ltd should pay Mr D £75 compensation. It should also reimburse him the £10 fee he was 
charged when he was sent copies of his statements, if it has not already done so.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145815