K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Phoenix  Life Assurance  Limited (Phoenix) wont  change the beneficiary 
of his joint life annuity following the death of his wife. He would now like his new partner to 
be the beneficiary.
background
Mr B held a personal  pension with Phoenix, from which he decided to draw  his benefits in 
2010. He chose to take a tax free lump  sum with an annuity of £1,319.75 paid annually in 
advance with a 100% spouses pension. This meant  that on Mr Bs death, his wife would 
receive the full pension  for the rest of her life.
Unfortunately Mrs B passed  away quite unexpectedly so the spouses  pension was lost 
under the provision of the annuity.   
Recently Mr B decided he wanted to change the annuity to reflect his new partner as the 
beneficiary. But he was told this wasnt possible as Phoenix couldnt change the nominee on 
the plan. So Mr B complained but Phoenix  didnt uphold his complaint. It said it hadnt given 
Mr B any advice  in 2010  but had provided the necessary information he needed  to make 
an informed decision.  It said this information would  have  confirmed that if Mr B chose an 
annuity which paid an income to a spouse, that option would be lost if the spouse  died first. It 
also explained that the annuity that was arranged in 2010 was based on the late Mrs B 
details and it was unable to now change it to accommodate  a new beneficiary. 
The new administrator of Mr Bs annuity  also confirmed that the current  legislation  that 
allowed for small annuities to be paid out as a lump  sum was at the discretion of individual 
providers and it had opted not to pay out these  annuities.   
Mr B says he hasnt been given a reason why the annuity basis cant  be changed and says 
that other  providers that he held plans with have changed the beneficiary. He says Phoenixs 
terms and conditions dont cover this issue. As he remained unhappy with the outcome he 
brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and said Mr Bs complaint shouldnt be 
upheld. He thought that Phoenix had acted fairly  by providing details of all the available  
options in 2010 and, although it was unfortunate that Mrs B had passed  away,  the joint life 
annuity no longer  applied.  He said Phoenix  had asked the new annuity  provider if it was 
willing to alter the terms of the plan but it said it wasnt.    
Mr B disagreed. He said he understood the terms on which he agreed to take out the annuity 
but his wife had died unexpectedly and his circumstances were different now.  
He thought Phoenix should show some understanding of his position and suggested his new 
partner became the beneficiary of his annuity but with a reduced  income.
He asked for his complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman so its been passed  to me for a 
review.
my findings
Ref: DRN89740822Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, having  done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
The basis  of Mr Bs complaints
In reviewing this complaint I asked Phoenix why it felt it was responsible for answering 
Mr Bs complaint about not being able to change the basis  of the annuity following  the death 
of his wife. I thought that as the annuity was now being administered by another regulated 
business, it was now responsible for deciding if any alterations could be made  to the plan.
 
Phoenix said it considered the complaint  after a referral from the new administrator of the 
annuity  because it thought Mr Bs complaint was about the information he was provided 
with when he took out the annuity  and not being told he wouldnt be able to change the 
spouses details  after the annuity  was set up.  
Weve explained  to Mr B what that means  for him, and so I want to make it clear that what  
Im considering here, is Mr Bs complaint that Phoenix didnt make him aware that he 
wouldnt be able to change the basis of his annuity  after hed set it up. 
Any complaint about the other regulated business not agreeing to change the beneficiary of 
Mr Bs annuity now his wife has died should be made to the business  that now looks after
his annuity. If he remains  unhappy with the outcome of that complaint Mr B is then free to 
bring it to us.
Did Phoenix make Mr B aware his annuity couldnt be changed  after it was set up?
Following communication  between the parties in 2010 Phoenix wrote to Mr B outlining  the 
options he had for taking  his pension benefits. As Phoenix didnt give Mr B advice about  the 
sale, it isnt responsible for the choices he made  provided it gave him the relevant 
information to allow him to make an informed choice about  how to deal with his pension  
fund.
It was confirmed that Mr B could  either  take an annuity with Phoenix,  use his open market 
option to buy an annuity elsewhere, or transfer the fund to another provider. Mr B chose to 
take the tax free sum and a joint annuity  through Phoenix which the initial  quotation letter  
confirmed would provide  a fixed income  for the rest of your life and will be paid annually. 
Following your death, 100% of the non-protected rights lifetime annuity,  will continue  to be 
paid to your surviving  spouse or registered civil partner, until their death. 
Phoenix also issued  Mr B with a key features document for further details on annuities  The 
document made a number of references to lifetime  annuities and how they worked.  It stated 
that you decide on the type of benefits you want from your lifetime  annuity. 
Once you have  done this and we have processed your request  you will not be able to alter 
the lifetime annuity  in any way. You cannot  alter your lifetime  annuity in any way once it has 
started  
And the various  risks associated with the plan confirmed that your circumstances might 
change after your lifetime annuity is set up. Remember, you cannot alter your benefits once 
they have commenced.  As well as if you choose a lifetime annuity which  pays  an income  to 
your spouse  after your death,  and they die before you, their income will be lostyour 
Ref: DRN89740823income will stop either on your death, on the death  of your spouse or at the end of any 
guaranteed period, if later.  
So, taking into account that Phoenix didnt give Mr B any advice , Im satisfied  Mr B was 
given appropriate  information about his pension and was able to choose which  options  he 
wanted, which included  provision for his wife. And looking at the references the 
documentation made about  the death of your spouse, Im satisfied that as Mrs B was 
named as the beneficiary the provision was intended for her. 
Once an annuity is secured it is a payment for life, so its not possible for Mr B to change it 
and the income  hed provided for the late Mrs B in the event of his prior death, was lost 
forever as she died before him. 
I can understand how frustrating this matter is for Mr B and Ive seen how strongly he feels 
that he should be able to make provision for his new partner   especially as he says other 
providers have allowed  him to alter the basis of his plans  with them. But I dont think  Phoenix  
has done anything  wrong here  its applied the terms of the annuity correctly  as it said it 
would when it set it up for Mr B. So I dont think it needs to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8974082