K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains about the charges Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS), 
trading as Audi Financial Services, have asked her to pay at the end of her car finance  
agreement.
background
Mrs D took receipt of a new car in May 2015.  She financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with VWFS which was extended  at her request. In April 2019 the car was handed 
back and inspected by a third party appointed by VWFS. 
The inspector highlighted  six areas  of damage and VWFS therefore asked Mrs D to pay a 
little under £600 to have the damage refurbished, as they were  entitled to under the terms of 
the finance agreement.
Mrs D says she was led to believe that VWFS would  take into account  the fact she had 
completed a lower mileage than was contracted and that this would mean they could offset  
this against the refurbishment charges that had been made.  She was also upset that she 
hadnt been given a chance to get the repairs completed herself  and thought VWFS should 
have considered a quote  shed had to have  the car repaired for £350.
VWFS reviewed  the damage  charges but thought they had all been fairly levied. They said 
they didnt offset  lower  mileage rates against  refurbishment costs as these were  separate 
parts of the contract. 
So Mrs D referred her complaint to our service and our adjudicator  provided an opinion. He 
reviewed the refurbishment charges against the industry guidelines  for fair wear and tear 
that are provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). He 
thought all of the damage identified in the inspection report  was beyond fair wear and tear 
and was therefore chargeable. He didnt think VWFS had to offset the lower mileage against 
the refurbishment costs  and he didnt think VWFS had to allow Mrs D to carry out repairs  on 
the car herself  after theyd collected  the vehicle.
Mrs D didnt agree with the adjudicator  so she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mrs D so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN84784122Mrs D acquired  her car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.
The terms of Mrs Ds finance agreement  held her accountable for returning the car in an 
acceptable condition.  If there was damage  on the car that was in excess  of what  the industry 
guidelines (provided by the BVRLA) considered fair wear and tear then VWFS could make a 
charge for that refurbishment. Ive reviewed  the photographs of the damage to the car and I 
would agree with the inspector that in each  case the damage  is in excess of the BVRLA  
guidelines and is chargeable.
If Mrs D wanted  to avoid  these charges she was able to have the repairs carried  out before 
she returned the car. I can see Mrs D considered this as she obtained a quote  for the work.  
But Mrs D says she didnt go ahead with that work because  she believed  VWFS  had told her 
the low mileage of the car could be offset against  the refurbishment charges.
Ive not seen evidence that was the case. I can see that there  was consideration of the 
mileage and that VWFS also initially considered reviewing the quote Mrs D had obtained for 
the repairs. But they had no contractual obligation to do so and Im not persuaded there was 
ever an agreement that they would.
So, in those circumstances,  I dont think it would be reasonable  to tell VWFS to take any 
further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8478412