K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about the charges made  and the poor service he got from Automobile  
Association Insurance Services Limited when he bought motor breakdown and recovery 
policies through  it. 
background
On 19 August 2018 Mr Gs car broke down. An AA patrol attended, but as Mr G didnt have 
membership, he had to pay £99 to join AA as well as £7.94  for roadside assistance. As he 
wanted his car to be taken to a garage  near his home, Mr G had to upgrade the policy to 
include relay.  Mr G was charged an extra £195 to get the car there. On 28 August  2018 the 
first payment  of £7.64 for the relay  policy  was taken from Mr Gs bank account. The regular 
monthly payment  for roadside assistance  and relay  (£15.58) was taken in September  2018.  
Mr G said he didnt understand the payments  that were taken. He said he didnt know if hed 
been charged correctly  for relay and hadnt  received any documents for it. He said an AA 
advisor was rude to him when he queried that and asked to cancel the policy.  He wanted  all 
the payments  taken  by card to be refunded, plus compensation  for poor service.  Mr G said 
the poor service  included  being given the wrong information about the cancellation terms 
and being put on hold a lot. 
AA apologised  for not issuing the relay  documents, but it said the cover had been confirmed 
by phone on the day of the breakdown. It said it had refunded all payments except the £99 
joining fee and the recovery mileage charge, as a gesture of goodwill. AA upheld  Mr Gs 
complaint against  one of its advisors,  but it didnt offer him any compensation for that.  
As Mr G wasnt happy with AAs response  to his complaint,  one of our investigators reviewed 
his concerns. The investigator thought  AA had acted reasonably in making the refunds. He 
didnt think AA needed to issue the relay documents. He noted  that it had apologised for the 
way an advisor dealt with a call. AA wasnt able to provide the call recording to us. But based 
on AAs file notes,  the investigator thought there  may have  been  an argument  between the 
advisor and Mr G. He thought AA should have  given Mr G some  compensation. He said it 
should pay him £50 for distress and inconvenience.
AA didnt agree that any compensation was merited. Mr G said the £195  hed paid hadnt  
been mentioned.  He said he didnt  know how it had been worked out, as hed had nothing in 
writing  and the relay  cover documents should  have  been issued. He didnt accept that AA 
could simply have lost call recordings.  He objected to any suggestion that he may have been  
rude to the advisor. He said a further  £7.64 was owed to him. He referred to several service 
issues that he thought hadnt  been addressed. They included the advisor not knowing the 
details of AAs cancellation  policy, plus another advisor not being  able to find his phone 
number on the file and a late reply  to an email from AA.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows increasing  the compensation:
The largest charge  AA made on the day of the breakdown was £195,  for the recovery of 
Mr Gs car to a garage near his home. I think Mr G made it clear  that he didnt know  how that 
sum was arrived at, so he couldnt  be sure it was correct. Recently AA clarified the matter. It 
Ref: DRN87425322told us that it decided to allow him 50 miles of the recovery journey free of charge. He was 
then charged £2.50 for each of the remaining 78 miles of the journey, totalling  £195. 
The policy terms say that AA is entitled to limit the distance of a recovery  journey when 
recovery cover is bought after a breakdown. It says the maximum number of miles will be 
notified to the consumer  at the time. The consumer will be charged  for any extra mileage, 
which will be confirmed  at the time of purchase.
Mr G recalls having a telephone  conversation when he bought  the membership in August 
2018. It took place  in difficult circumstances  at the roadside, and a number of charges  were 
discussed. I dont  think its surprising that Mr G cant recall  exactly what  was said.  We asked 
for a copy  of the call recording, which isnt available. Mr G is unhappy  that he wasnt sent 
documents about the relay cover  and an explanation of how the charge was worked  out. I 
think that was a reasonable expectation.  
Although it looks as though the charge AA made was correct,  I dont think it has given any 
reason why it didnt  send  Mr G the relay documents, even after he made his complaint. I 
dont think apologising  for not sending  them is enough. And I dont think Mr G should have 
been left not knowing if the charge AA had made for the recovery  was right.
In terms of the other charges  made,  AA has shown  that it refunded the payments of £7.94 
and £7.64 that Mr G made in August 2018 for roadside and relay  cover.  It has also shown 
that it refunded  the £15.58 combined charge for roadside and relay  cover that it took in 
September 2018. Mr G thinks a further £7.64 (the charge for a months relay cover)  is owed 
to him. We asked Mr G for evidence of that, but as far as I can see he hasnt provided it. 
Based on the information I have at the moment,  it seems AA has correctly  refunded  the 
monthly charges  for roadside assistance  and relay  to Mr G.
Mr G also complained about other issues, the major one being the service he got when  he 
called AA on 10 September  2018 and spoke to advisor J about  a refund. Mr G says advisor 
J told him a refund wasnt possible. He thought she wasnt aware of the policy  wording on 
cancellation. It says a refund will be provided within 14 days  of the policys start date or 
within 14 days of the policy  documents being received by the policy holder, whichever is the
later. Mr G says he called AA within 14 days of getting the policy documents,  so he didnt 
expect a refund to be disputed. Mr G thought he was entitled to £38.80  back. AA eventually  
refunded £31.16 (leaving the £7.64 shortfall referred  to above). But Mr G remained unhappy 
with advisor Js attitude.
The call recording isnt available. But AA was able to listen to it before providing its final 
response to Mr G. It told him it was upholding his complaint about advisor J, although  it 
didnt explain why, or offer any compensation. Mr G found that unacceptable. He thought 
advisor J had been rude to him and had unfairly  said he had been rude.  That was in addition 
to her not knowing the policys cancellation  terms and often putting  him on hold.  
There are brief file notes of the call between Mr G and advisor  J set out by the person  who 
listened to it. The notes are insufficient  to be able to say exactly  what  happened, but the 
person who dealt with Mr Gs complaint concluded  that advisor J should have handled the 
call differently. As AA must have thought at least some of Mr Gs concerns about the call 
were justified, its not clear why it didnt think any compensation should be paid for that. 
In AAs final response letter, it said Mr G had asked for a refund  after the 14-day cooling-off 
period, and it refunded the payments as a gesture of goodwill. There  was no reference to 
Ref: DRN87425323Mr G having called within 14 days of receiving the policy documents. If thats what 
happened, he was entitled  to a refund. AA may have had reasons for disagreeing with that, 
but if so, it isnt clear  what they were from the details I have at the moment. In any event,  I 
think it was poor service on AAs part not to address the issue at all. 
Mr G also complained to AA about  further  service issues.  He was unhappy that advisor  R 
didnt address the issues hed raised about advisor J putting him on hold, not being  able to 
answer his queries and not knowing the details of the cancellation  policy. He said although 
he hadnt asked  for a call back or an email, advisor  R emailed  him. And he said she failed to 
note that hed provided his telephone  number  in his first email to AA. He also complained  
that after a week,  AA hadnt acknowledged his concerns about advisor R. 
I cant see that the issues Mr G raised  (apart from the one about  advisor  Js attitude) have 
been addressed  to date. As it looks as though  he was entitled to a refund, AA hasnt 
provided anything  in terms of compensating him. In my opinion, he faced upset  and 
inconvenience as a result  of AAs poor service.  Our investigator proposed  that AA should  
pay Mr G £50. But - subject to any other  details  I get from the parties - I think  it would be fair 
and reasonable for AA to pay Mr G £150 compensation. 
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Both Mr G and AA accepted  
them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr G and AA have accepted my provisional  decision, theres  no reason to change  it, 
so Im upholding  this complaint on the basis set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Automobile Association Insurance 
Services Limited to pay Mr G £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  Under  the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my 
decision before  18 January  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8742532