K820x#14Complaint
Mr O representing Mr and Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked their joint 
accounts without  giving  a reason or warning.  They also retained some funds once Mr O 
closed the accounts. Mr O is unhappy  with the service he received from Lloyds. He would  
like compensation  of £5,000 for the inconvenience  and distress  caused.
Background
Mr and Mrs O had two joint accounts with Lloyds. Im aware that Mr O and Mrs O also have 
individual accounts with Lloyds. They have raised a complaint regarding these accounts. 
However, this decision  will focus  on Mr and Mrs Os joint account. Mr Os and Mrs Os other 
complaints will be addressed separately.
On 8 January  2019 Mr O went to the branch to reset  his on-line banking details. That day he 
noticed that he wasnt able to use his card for purchases. After two days  of trying to use his 
account he went back to the branch, but he was told they didnt have an explanation for this. 
Eventually after a couple of visits he was told his account was blocked. 
During one visit the bank  asked him to provide  ID and having done so he was told his 
accounts would be unblocked in 24 hours. However, the bank didnt remove the blocks.  So, 
Mr O complained to Lloyds.
At the end of February  Mr O was allowed to remove the funds  from his accounts and he 
closed the accounts with Lloyds on 28 February 2019. The bank retained £2,343.17 as it had 
received a freezing order for these funds.
Lloyds investigated  the complaint and said that there had not been an error by the bank and 
the accounts would continue to be blocked.  They didnt tell Mr O how long the block on his 
accounts would last. They offered Mr O £75 for their failures in customer service. 
Specifically, they said they shouldnt have told Mr O that the accounts would be unblocked  if 
he produced ID and they accepted that one of their staff wasnt very friendly  to Mr O and Mrs 
O when they visited  the branch.
Mr O was unhappy with the response from Lloyds. He rejected the compensation offered.
Mr O complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into his complaint. He said Lloyds hadnt done anything  
wrong and were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations  when they blocked the 
accounts. He said Lloyds werent obliged  to tell him why the accounts were  blocked. He also 
said that Lloyds  were entitled to close the accounts  under the terms and conditions.
Mr O disagreed with the view. He said that he had closed  the accounts  not Lloyds. He also 
explained that not having access to any money  made it very difficult  to pay his bills and 
mortgage. He also said he understood that the maximum  time an account  could  be blocked 
for was three days and Lloyds had blocked  his accounts for two months so he should  get 
compensation. He also said that he had been operating  the accounts properly and therefore 
Lloyds should  tell him why they had blocked the accounts.
Our investigator responded to Mr O. He said that he agreed that Mr O hadnt had access  to 
his funds for two months and he apologised for assuming that it was Lloyds who had closed  
Ref: DRN89953752the accounts. He reiterated that Lloyds hadnt  made any errors in blocking the accounts and 
they were meeting their regulatory obligations.  Our investigator also said that Lloyds wasnt  
obliged to tell Mr O the reasons for the block on the accounts. He said that although blocking 
an account for two months was a long time,  he didnt think  Lloyds had done anything wrong 
and so although he appreciated the inconvenience,  he wasnt able to ask Lloyds to pay Mr O 
compensation.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  having done so I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Os joint accounts. UK legislation 
places extensive  obligations on regulated financial businesses.  Financial  institutions  must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
These obligations override all other  obligations. Businesses are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship.  Lloyds has said that Mr Os 
accounts were blocked to meet these  legal requirements.
Mr O says he has no idea why Lloyds  blocked his accounts and it came  as a complete shock 
to him. He says the block meant he couldnt pay bills, or his mortgage  and his wife couldnt 
go to work  because they had no money  for fuel. 
Whilst I understand Mr Os strength of feeling,  as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation  to comply with various  laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Lloyds  relied upon, Im satisfied that Lloyds were  complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they blocked Mr Os joint accounts. So, I cant  say they have  
done anything  wrong. The terms and conditions  of Mr Os accounts also permit Lloyds to 
block an account. Having  considered those  terms, Im satisfied Lloyds acted in line with 
them. 
I know Mr O wants  Lloyds to explain the reason  they blocked  his joint accounts. And I can 
understand Mr Os frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed  explanation. But as the 
investigator has explained, Lloyds is under no obligation to provide this information to him, 
as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Lloyds have done anything  wrong by not 
providing this information  to him.
When one of the joint accounts  was closed Lloyds retained funds which  were subject to a 
freezing order. Having looked at the evidence I am satisfied that Lloyds were complying with 
a court  order. So, they were obliged to do what they did in retaining  these funds.
In summary  Ive already said that Lloyds  has procedures they must follow to comply with 
their legal and regulatory  obligations. Im satisfied that is what they were doing when they 
reviewed Mr Os accounts.  So, I dont  think Lloyds have done  anything wrong. I appreciate  
being without  money  was extremely stressful for Mr O and his family,  but I am satisfied that 
Lloyds acted fairly when  they blocked Mr Os joint accounts and I will not be asking them to 
do anything else.
Ref: DRN89953753Lloyds accepted that they had given Mr O and Mrs O poor customer  service and offered 
them £75 in compensation. I have  considered  this, and I think its a fair offer in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking  them to do anything more. The £75 is likely still available 
to Mr and Mrs O. So, Mr O will need  to contact Lloyds directly to see how they want to pay 
this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  outlined I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8995375