K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that shes being harassed  by Amigo Loans  Ltd for repayment  of a loan 
she is the guarantor  for. She says she didnt consent to be the guarantor, and wants  to be 
removed from this position.
background
On the 19 June 2018 Miss H received a text message  from Amigo telling her that the 
monthly repayment hadnt been  made on a loan she guaranteed.  She was sent several  more  
text messages about this over the next few days telling  her how many  days the payment was 
overdue, and giving her the option  to make the payment herself. Miss H made  the 
repayment on the 29 June 2018.
Amigo then text her on 17 July 2018 letting her know  that the borrower had again failed to 
make the required repayment.  This time Miss H didnt pay it, and the loan fell into arrears.  
Amigo continued to send her text messages  about  it and said that Miss H had to meet  the 
repayment in line with her agreement to guarantee the loan. They told her theyd consider 
going to court if the repayments didnt get back on track, and that this could result in a 
County Court Judgment being issued against her. 
Miss H complained to Amigo  that she couldnt afford the repayments.  She told them  that she 
didnt agree to be the guarantor for the loan and didnt  sign a loan agreement. She gave 
them up-to-date contact details for the borrower  and asked them to discuss  it with the 
borrower. She also explained  she was suffering from mental  health  issues when the loan 
was taken out. In addition,  Miss H complained about  the way she had been spoken to by 
Amigo when discussing the situation.
Amigo investigated, and although they think she was impersonated on some  telephone calls, 
they still think Miss H did agree to be the guarantor  for the loan.  And they think  she should 
have understood  she may be required to meet the repayments if the borrower  didnt. They 
also said they had tried to contact  the borrower  but hadnt been able to reach them.  
They did agree that the service shed received from one of their agents on the telephone 
was below the standard they would expect, and explained that appropriate measures had 
been taken in line with their training and disciplinary procedures.
Miss H is unhappy Amigo  are still asking her to meet the loan repayments, so she brought  
her complaint to our service. Shes worried about the impact this loan might  have  on her 
credit rating, and that this could affect  her job. She wants Amigo  to remove her as guarantor 
for the loan and refund the payments she has made  towards the loan to date.
Our adjudicator sympathised with Miss H, but they felt Amigo were fairly chasing her for 
repayment of the loan.  
Miss H still doesnt think Amigo have done  enough to track  down  the borrower for the 
repayments required. And she doesnt think its fair she should stay as guarantor  for the 
loan. So the case  has been referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN89900482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Miss H will be very disappointed, 
but I wont be asking  ask Amigo to remove her as guarantor  of the loan. Ill explain why.
Firstly I need to consider  whether Amigo made an error when they made Miss H the loan 
guarantor. Amigo  have told us that they received a guarantee and indemnity agreement via 
email, signed electronically by Miss H on 31 August 2017. Miss H says it doesnt contain her 
signature. But I can see her name is typed on the form where a signature is required.  Its not 
unusual for agreements to be signed in this way now and Amigo  accepts electronic 
signatures like this. So I think its fair for Amigo to have relied on this here as confirmation 
that Miss H accepted  the agreement.
Amigo have also told us they spoke to someone they believed to be Miss H on the telephone 
the same  day to confirm  it was her who had signed  the agreement. Following this, a letter  
was sent to Miss Hs home address, again  confirming that Amigo had received a signed loan 
agreement from her, and setting out her responsibility as guarantor. It asked her to contact  
them if she didnt know about  the loan and thought  shed been a victim of fraud.  I understand 
Miss H didnt contact Amigo to suggest  this was the case.
I can see that the indemnity agreement and the letter both clearly explain that Miss H could 
be required  to meet the loan repayments  herself if the borrower failed  to do so. This was 
also discussed on the calls where Amigo confirmed Miss H had given her consent  as 
guarantor for the loan.  Amigo  have explained  they also verified  the information they were 
given using her credit  file, and checked that her bank details were registered to her address. 
So I think that Amigo took reasonable steps to ensure that Miss H was consenting to be 
guarantor for the loan,  and that she understood what this meant.
Amigo have investigated  and explained that they now think Miss H was impersonated  on 
both the consent calls made before  the loan was approved.  I can hear that they went 
through the correct security checks on these calls,  and its clear whoever they were  speaking 
to knew Miss Hs personal details. I dont  think Amigo  had any reason to suspect  they 
werent speaking  to Miss H. So I dont  think it was unreasonable that they relied  on the 
information they were  given on these  calls.
Given this evidence, I dont think that Amigo made an error when they accepted Miss H as 
loan guarantor. And Im satisfied they carried out appropriate checks  before doing  so. 
However, I need to consider whether its fair for Amigo  to pursue Miss H for the repayments 
given theres signs  that shes  been  impersonated  here. 
Amigo still think Miss H signed the guarantee and indemnity agreement form herself, and 
that she would have received their letter. Theyve  also shown us that the loan was paid 
directly into Miss Hs bank account, for her to then transfer to the borrower. So they say she 
was aware of the loan and her responsibilities.
Ref: DRN89900483Ive thought about what theyve said, and on balance I think it is possible  the application 
could have been made without Miss Hs knowledge.  Miss H has told us she couldnt have 
signed the agreement as she was working  at the time. I appreciate  it was signed via email,  
so Miss H could have done this from any location.  But given the extent  of personal details 
the person on the consent calls knew about  her, I think its possible that someone else 
couldve signed the agreement on her behalf.  I understand the borrower was previously in a 
relationship with Miss H, so its also feasible her mail could have been intercepted, and even 
that her bank account might have been  accessed without her knowledge  although Miss H 
hasnt suggested  this is the case.
I do think though  its likely  that at some  point Miss H would have noticed on her bank 
statements that the loan had been  paid into her account even  if it was transferred to the 
borrower without her knowledge.  Amigo  have told us the reference that would have shown  
next to the loan payment  on her account statement was Your Loan. It would also have  said 
it came  from them. Miss H could have queried  this with Amigo  if she had concerns. 
Miss H says she was unaware  of the loan until she received  a text message from Amigo  
telling her that a payment had been  missed. I can see from the loan statement that all 
payments were made  by direct debit  on time up until 19 June 2018 when the payment 
bounced. Amigo notified her of this the same  day.
However theres evidence  that Miss H was aware  she was the guarantor  for this loan before 
19 June 2018.  
Ive listened to a call Miss H made to Amigo on 8 June 2018, prior to any payments being 
missed. On this call she told the agent she was the guarantor for a loan and that her 
relationship with the borrower had broken down. She said she was concerned the borrower  
might not keep up the repayments, and asked  when shed be required to step in. She said 
she didnt want the loan to default because she was the guarantor. But that she was 
reluctant to pay it in full. She also explained  she was unhappy  with the borrower and 
intended to contact a solicitor.  But she didnt  at any point indicate  she had been made 
guarantor unknowingly,  or that she didnt think it wold be fair for Amigo  to ask her to meet 
the repayments if the borrower failed to do so.
I think on balance, given  she was clearly worried about the situation at this point, its 
reasonable to expect  Miss H to have told Amigo on this call if she had not agreed  to be the 
guarantor for the loan.  But she told Amigo that she was the guarantor for a loan.  This was 
the only loan Ive seen that shes guaranteed with Amigo. So this indicates that Miss H was 
aware that she was a guarantor of the loan here.  I also feel that the other questions she was 
asking all suggested that she accepted her responsibility as guarantor too. 
Miss H didnt make a complaint to Amigo until 10 July 2018. This was after she had met the 
June 2018 repayment herself. Again, thinking  about  the situation  on balance,  I wouldnt 
expect someone who was previously unaware of a loan and didnt think  they had any 
responsibility for it to do this without raising  the matter with the lender.  
I think that through both her telephone call to Amigo, and by voluntarily meeting the first 
missed repayment, Miss H communicated to them an acceptance of her role and 
responsibilities for the loan. So I dont think its unreasonable they have continued to chase 
her for payment since its fallen into arrears. But I do have to consider whether there is any 
other reason it would be unfair for Amigo to continue to pursue Miss H as the guarantor for 
this loan.
Ref: DRN89900484I appreciate Miss H is frustrated that Amigo havent been able to contact the borrower who 
has stopped repaying the loan. She thinks they should be concentrating on recovering the 
money from the borrower. Shes  told them the contact  details  they have for them are out of 
date, and given  them the relevant current address. 
Amigo have explained  theyve sent a letter  to this new address asking the borrower  to 
contact them. But as they havent  formally notified them of their new contact  details they 
cannot send anything more specific. Nor can they amend the details on the account. I 
understand Miss H feels let down by the borrower.  But given the situation, Amigo have done 
what I would  reasonably expect to try and contact them.  And I dont think  the fact they 
havent been able to reach them means they arent entitled to pursue Miss H for repayments 
in her position as guarantor.
Miss H has also given  us evidence that confirms  she was suffering from mental  health  
issues at the time the loan was taken  out. She says that because  of this she wouldnt have 
been in a position to make financial decisions like becoming a guarantor.  Amigo  say they 
werent told about Miss Hs mental health  issues until 23 June 2018. So I wouldnt expect  
this to have been something they took into consideration in August  2017 when the loan was 
taken out.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was any evidence  to suggest that Miss Hs health  would 
have impacted on her ability to agree  to be the guarantor for the loan. And I agree  I cant 
see that this would have been  the case. I accept Miss H was off work and taking medication. 
But her medical records dont indicate  any negative  side-effects that would impact her 
understanding of matters  like this. I also note there  were no legal safeguards  in place  to 
suggest Miss H wasnt capable of managing her own financial affairs  either.   
Im satisfied Amigo have suitably taken Miss Hs health into account  since  becoming aware 
of her situation. Theyve told us that they added the information to Miss Hs account, and 
have taken steps to try and manage it appropriately;  giving  her parents the authority to act 
on her behalf. I think the action Amigo have taken to try and accommodate Miss H is 
reasonable, and Im satisfied they are treating her fairly in this respect.
Miss H has complained about the way she was spoken to by Amigos advisors.  Amigo 
agreed that one agent hadnt  provided  the level of service  theyd  expect on a telephone call. 
But they didnt  think there had been  any other  examples of poor service. Ive listened to the 
calls Miss H had with Amigo, and I agree I think their other  agents spoke to her respectfully. 
Amigo have apologised  for the particular  agent  at fault and told Miss H he has been spoken 
to in line with their training and disciplinary procedure. I think  thats  a proportionate response 
to this issue and, having listened  to the call concerned, Im satisfied no further  action is 
required to resolve  the issue.  The conversation broke down on both sides.
Miss H has explained  this has been  a very distressing experience, and I do sympathise with 
her situation.  Although  I accept its not clear  if the application was completed by Miss H 
herself, Im satisfied, on balance of the evidence available, that she was aware of the loan 
and accepted her responsibility as guarantor. And I think  she communicated an acceptance 
of this to Amigo prior to raising her complaint.  So for the reasons set out above, I think its 
fair and reasonable for Amigo to seek repayment of the loan from Miss H.
I understand Miss H feels she is being harassed  by Amigo due to the number of text 
messages and emails  she has received from them about the loan since it fell into arrears.  
Ref: DRN89900485But I do think Amigo are entitled  to chase the debt that is owed to them,  and I dont think 
their communications have been excessive or threatening. Theyve explained  to Miss H why 
they believe she is the loan guarantor. Theyve  also set out the consequences of her not 
repaying the loan.  This is something  Id expect them to do. 
Miss H says she doesnt feel she can afford to meet the current monthly repayments. I can 
see Amigo have offered to discuss her finances  with her and agree a formal  payment plan to 
bring the loan up to date. If she has not already contacted them  about this I suggest she 
should do so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Amigo Loans Ltd for the 
reasons outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8990048