K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Mrs C complain that Yorkshire  Building  Society mis-sold  them a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out when Mr C and Mrs C took out some 
additional borrowing  on their mortgage account in 2007 in one of the building  societys 
branches. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
Mr C and Mrs Cs main complaint is that they didnt realise that theyd taken out PPI with 
their additional  borrowing. Mr C told us that he thought this borrowing was set up on the 
same terms  as their original mortgage  which they took out without having PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Cs complaint. Heres why I say this.
There arent any detailed  notes available of the discussions  when the PPI was sold, so 
I cant know exactly what was said. But Ive been given some paperwork from the time, 
including an illustration  document  which I think Mr C and Mrs C wouldve seen. That said 
they didnt have to take out any further  insurance to get the additional  loan. I think this 
paperwork set out the position clearly. And Mr C and Mrs C wouldve known at the time that 
PPI was optional.  
From reading this paperwork,  it looks as if there  was some discussion about 
Mr C and Mrs Cs particular requirements   and PPI was recommended  to them. Ive taken 
into account that because of his particular circumstances Mr C may not have taken an active  
part in any discussions, and might not have readily  been able to understand some of the 
paperwork immediately. But it appears  that Yorkshire Building Society also sent 
Mr C and Mrs C information showing that from a range of possible options theyd selected 
the amount of benefit they wanted  to have,  the type of cover  they required and the excess  
period they chose. 
So I think both Mr C and Mrs C wouldve been  aware that Yorkshire Building Society  was 
going ahead with their application on the understanding it had that Mr C and Mrs C had 
indicated their PPI requirements.  I think its likely the paperwork accurately recorded what 
had been agreed. And if Mr C and Mrs C had wanted more information about the PPI, or 
they hadnt wanted PPI at all, I think its likely that they wouldve  taken  this up with Yorkshire  
Building Society at the time. Ive see nothing to suggest they did this.  
Ref: DRN85174852Mr C and Mrs Cs mortgage was a major  financial commitment, and their home couldve 
been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. Even if they hadnt wanted 
to have PPI with their original borrowing, I can see why they mightve felt it was useful to 
have when they borrowed more money  and increased the amount owing  on their mortgage  
account. It looks like only Mr C was in paid work  at the time and it doesnt look as if 
Mr C and Mrs C had significant  other means  they couldve  relied on for very long if Mr C 
wasnt working. 
Looked at overall, I think Yorkshire  Building Society  made Mr C and Mrs C aware that they 
had a choice about protecting their repayments  and that they wanted to do so at the time - 
although I can understand why they mightve  forgotten this after so long. On balance,  I think  
its likely  that the policy  was added to their account when Mr C and Mrs C decided they 
wanted the benefits PPI offered and they chose  to buy it.
As Yorkshire  Building Society recommended the PPI to Mr C and Mrs C it had to check  that 
the policy was suitable for them. 
Ive looked carefully  at the information  about their financial  circumstances at the time the PPI 
was taken out. 
According to Yorkshire  Building Societys  records, Mr Cs sick pay entitlement through  work 
appears to have been limited to less than full pay and it wouldve  been paid for 12 weeks  
only. PPI provided long term protection for his mortgage and more  dependable  cover. It 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful accident, sickness  or unemployment 
claim. And although  they couldve relied on some savings in the short term, repeat claims 
were possible  under the policy  giving Mr C and Mrs C long term protection for their home.  
I think this wouldve been an important consideration for Mr C and Mrs C at the time, given 
the serious consequences if Mr C couldnt  work  and they were  unable to pay their mortgage.
Its possible  some information Yorkshire Building  Society gave Mr C and Mrs C about the 
PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. The policy didnt cover existing health problems. So 
Ive taken into account that Mr C wouldnt have been  covered for absence from work due to 
a long term condition  he had when he took out the policy. But it appears that Mr C and Mrs C 
had no reason to think that Mr Cs condition was likely to lead to him needing to take time off 
work because of it - they told us he hadnt had to do that up until then. So I dont think  having  
more information  about this policy limitation  wouldve made  any difference  to their decision 
to take out the cover  as theyd still have had the other benefits  the policy offered.   
It appears that Yorkshire Building Society  sent Mr C and Mrs C a quotation illustrating  the 
cost of the cover and the benefit  selected. So I think Mr C and Mrs C wouldve known  how 
much they would need to pay for the PPI each month and they found  this acceptable.  Its a 
monthly premium policy so they couldve cancelled this at any time without extra cost if their 
circumstances changed or they decided they no longer wanted the cover. 
Given their circumstances,  even if Yorkshire  Building Society  didnt provide Mr C and Mrs C 
with all the information it shouldve done, I think it unlikely  that having  better  information  
wouldve put Mr C and Mrs C off taking  out the policy. The policy was still running when 
Mr C and Mrs C first complained and I see that Yorkshire Building Society has already 
reminded them that they are able to cancel the cover anytime they want to. I dont know if the 
policy is still live. But, on balance, I think Mr C and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy  
when they did, given the benefits it offered them in their particular situation.  
Ref: DRN85174853This means  Yorkshire Building Society  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr C and Mrs C.
But Yorkshire Building Society has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C and Mrs C 
because: 
Yorkshire Building Society  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr C and Mrs C about  that. Because  
Yorkshire Building Society didnt tell Mr C and Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Yorkshire Building Society has paid back  the amount  of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
 my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr C and Mrs C.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr C and Mrs C any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C and Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8517485