K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer, should  accept  responsibility  for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to FICL  as the seller  in my decision. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 4 September 2019. A copy  of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought 
the complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision with anything  further. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything further  to consider, I confirm my provisional findings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 November 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83690192copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss B says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
Its been  agreed in this case  that FICL, as the insurer,  should  accept responsibility for the complaint. 
To keep things simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision. 
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  Miss B took out with a store card in September  2002. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card in store. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. She considered that as Miss B had a medical condition at the 
time of the sale, she might not be able to claim  for everything she would expect to. So she thought  
Miss B, had she been made aware  of this, wouldnt have  taken out the PPI.  
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me. 
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Im currently  not intending  to uphold Miss Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think  that FICL made Miss B aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to 
take it. I say this because FICL has been  able to give us a copy of the credit agreement  completed by 
Miss B at the time of the sale. And I see that Miss B signed a separate  section of the agreement to 
take the PPI. I think if Miss B hadnt wanted to take the PPI then she wouldnt have chosen to sign for 
it. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest  FICL assessed Miss Bs individual needs,  such  as her employee  benefits 
or health, and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely  that it did. This meant it 
didn't have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to made  sure Miss B got the information  she 
needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Miss B has said she wasnt  given all of the relevant information about the policy and I agree its 
possible the information FICL gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have been.  So I 
need to consider if Miss B would  have  acted differently and not bought the policy, if better  information  
had been provided. And on balance  I dont think better information would  have led her to act 
differently.
Miss B has told us that if she was too unwell to work she would have received 12 months  full pay 
from her employer.  But after careful consideration, I think its unlikely  Miss B would  have received the 
level of sick pay she says she received.  From what I know, and have seen of employee benefits  
across a wide variety of industries and sectors,  I think its unlikely that Miss B would  have received 12 
months sick pay at the time she applied  for the policy.
Ref: DRN83690193So I think its more likely, based on what I have seen so far, the policy  would have been of use to Miss 
B if she wasnt able to work. It would  have paid out in addition to any employee benefits  she may 
have received so would  have covered the monthly repayments she would  need to make on the store 
card. It also would have paid out if she had lost her job.
If Miss B has any further information about her employee benefits she can let me know in response to 
this provisional  decision.  
Miss B says she had savings of between £1,000 and £2,000  she could have used if she had needed  
to. But having the policy would  have  meant that she wouldnt need to use her savings  and they would 
have remained intact for their original  purpose or emergency use, at what could have been a difficult  
time. 
Miss B has told us that she suffered from a medical  condition (mild  asthma) at the time of the sale. So 
our adjudicator concluded  that it was possible  that Miss B would have  been affected  by the exclusions 
relating to pre-existing  medical conditions. The policy excluded any claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions which would recur within  12 months of the start date of the policy. So under certain  
circumstances Miss B couldnt have  claimed on the policy if she was off sick with asthma or any 
conditions caused  by her asthma.  But I dont think that this would  have deterred her from buying  the 
policy. 
I say this because our adjudicator asked Miss B about her condition.  This included  whether Miss B 
was receiving treatment  or taking medication (other than Ventolin),  whether  she had sought advice  
from a registered practitioner during the 12 months period  prior to the start date of the policy, or if she 
had taken any time off work for the condition.
In each case  Miss Bs response was no. 
Unlike the adjudicator, taking all these things into account, including  what  Miss B has told us about 
not having  sought advice  from a medical practitioner in within the last 12 months I think its likely that 
Miss B suffered  from a relatively mild form of asthma. As a result,  I think  its unlikely that she would 
have seen this as a potential cause to be off work  for an extended period. 
As it stands,  I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations would 
have made  any difference to Miss Bs decision  to take out PPI.
In response to this provisional decision, if Miss B wants to provide  any further information  about  her 
medical condition she can do so. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im currently not intending  to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
I am provisionally minded  to say the policy  wasnt  mis-sold.  I invite both parties  to respond with 
anything further they wish me to consider. 
Ref: DRN8369019