K822xThe complaint
This complaints about an equity release  lifetime  mortgage that Mrs H holds. The mortgage 
was originally held jointly with her husband, Mr H, who has since died. The complaint has 
been brought by Mrs Hs son (whom  Ill call Mr H1) under  a power of attorney executed in 
2019.
The complaint is that the broker who arranged the original mortgage, a representative of 
Julian Harris Mortgages Limited, increased the initial drawdown  by £15,500 without 
demonstrating why that was a suitable recommendation. He then arranged  additional  
drawdowns on the mortgage after the lender had expressed concerns about  Mrs Hs mental 
capacity. 
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 16 January 2021, I set out, with reasons, the basis on 
which I intended to determine the complaint.  The following  is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
This is one of a pair of linked complaints,  as Mr H1 has, at the same  time, complained about 
the mortgage provider for its role in the later drawdowns taking place. The two complaints 
are discrete from each other, and my decision here deals solely  with the actions  of 
Julian Harris. My decision on the complaint against  the mortgage provider (which  Ill refer to 
here as K) will be a separate document. 
That said,  the two complaints do arise  from a common set of circumstances. So its 
inevitable that there  will be a degree of commonality in the two narratives.  If there are any 
occasions in this decision against  Julian  Harris  where I have referred to J, its because 
context required me to.
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  and 
used my own words to do so. No discourtesys  intended by that; its a reflection  of the 
informal service  we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont  be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me
 to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked 
by matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
At the outset, the broker recommended the mortgage be for £35,000, to cover  specific 
financial objectives. However, he changed  that to £50,500, and that was the amount the 
lender issued when the mortgage began in 2015.
Then, a series of six drawdowns (in effect, further  advances) totalling £64,000 was made on 
the mortgage between 2016  and 2018. K had been contacted directly but on several 
occasions, Mrs H had been unable to answer  basic security questions  on the telephone. K 
allowed the transactions to go ahead after Julian Harris sent in request forms, signed by 
both borrowers, recommending the drawdowns take place. 
Our investigator thought that Julian  Harris should not have done this; nor was he satisfied 
Julian Harris had demonstrated the suitability  of the extra £15,500 drawn  down when the 
mortgage started.  
To resolve  the complaint,  he recommended  Julian  Harris:
Ref: DRN86558182Credit the mortgage with K with a sum equal to all of the interest  that had accrued on the 
additional £15,500 from the mortgage  start date to the settlement date;
Credit the mortgage with K with a sum equal to half of the interest that had accrued on 
the drawdowns from their respective  start dates to the settlement date;
meet any early repay  charge(s) that might be triggered by the crediting of the above 
amounts to the mortgage with K; and
pay Mrs H £1,000  compensation.
The investigator view was issued  in January 2021. Despite several reminders,  weve not had 
any reply from Julian Harris.
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide  whats  fair 
in the round. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont  take either sides  
instructions on how we investigate a complaint, or when we have enough  information  on file 
to decide it.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what  
we consider is most likely  to have happened, on the balance of probabilities.  Thats broadly 
the same  test that the courts use in civil cases.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Ive come  to the following conclusions.
Julian  Harris hasnt  demonstrated why borrowing £50,500 at the outset, instead of 
£35,000, was a suitable recommendation. The investigators recommendation that Julian 
Harris cover  the interest accrued up to now is fine as far as it goes, but it makes  no 
provision for interest continuing to accrue  in the future.
Its difficult to speculate  on how long the mortgage might  run for; in the interests of 
overall fairness, whilst  at the same time mindful that I need to make  an award that is 
simple and straightforward to implement,  I propose to order Julian Harris to pay Mrs H a 
sum equal to two years worth of interest on the £15,500. At a fixed  rate of 5.42%, with 
compounding that equals £1,725.73.  
The medical evidence  Mr H1 has provided  is strongly indicative that Mrs Hs mental  
capacity was already  diminishing when the sequence of additional drawdowns 
commenced in 2016. I appreciate the broker  wasnt a medical  professional, but the fact 
that K wasnt willing to release  funds after having spoken to Mrs H on the phone should 
have made him alert to the risk that all was not well. 
In an email to us dated 4 September 2020  Julian  Harris said Mr and Mrs H had already 
decided to borrow the extra funds and could have gone directly  to K without involving its 
broker. I find that a rather disingenuous comment, given  it knows  theyd already done 
Ref: DRN86558183that. In my view, bearing in mind  why K had involved him, the broker needed to do more 
than simply follow a process and obtain  Mrs Hs signatures (which  even to the untrained  
eye display considerable deterioration over time) alongside that of Mr H on the various 
request forms. 
In the same email,  Julian Harris denies having given advice on the drawdowns.  But the 
forms included an express  recommendation that they draw the extra funds; thats  
tantamount to the giving of advice.
Julian  Harris had a duty, under the regulators  high-level principles, to act in Mrs Hs best 
interests  not just Mr Hs - and treat her fairly, and on all six occasions, I find that it 
failed to meet that duty. Thats  why its my view that Julian Harris should share 
responsibility for the drawdowns having  taken place. I dont find that the core debt arising 
from the initial extra drawdown or the subsequent ones should be waived; but I agree  
that they should not attract interest.
Weve had no response from Julian Harris to the investigators view;  I dont  know if thats 
an oversight or a deliberate decision not to engage  with us. Either way, it reflects  poorly 
on the business, as all it has done is delay  settlement of the complaint unnecessarily,  
thus adding to Mrs Hs distress. The investigator  has already recommended  Julian Harris 
pay compensate Mrs H for that distress. The sum he considered fair was £1,000,  and in 
all the circumstances,  I agree.
I gave the parties  until 30 March 2021 to respond  to the provisional decision; weve heard 
from both already. Julian  Harris made an offer to settle the case in accordance with my 
provisional decision. Mr H1 said, in summary:
The award for future interest on the additional £15,500 shouldnt be limited to two years,  
as if Mrs H lives longer,  shell  be penalised;
He had hoped some of the capital debt would be written  off as Mrs H hadnt really  
benefitted from it and is now left with the bill;
He intends  bringing a complaint against  the solicitor who certified that Mrs H had been 
advised on and understood  that nature of the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided in connection with 
this complaint.
Im grateful  to Julian Harris for agreeing to my proposed settlement. The calculation  it has 
carried out is helpful, but will need  to be done  again  if and when Mrs H formally accepts my 
final decision. Thats because  the award of compensation  runs to the date of settlement.
Turning to Mr H1s comments, I can understand  his disappointment that none  of the capital 
debt is to be written off, but his comments notwithstanding, I cant fairly conclude  that Mrs H 
didnt benefit from the funds in some way.
Theres no fair basis for me to order in this decision  that no further interest  be charged on 
the additional £15,500 in perpetuity. Thats because this decision  addresses the complaint  
against Julian Harris, and the interest  is charged  by K, and its entitled to do so. 
The intention of my award  here is to require Julian  Harris  to offset the cost of that future 
interest. The dilemma, as I alluded to in the provisional decision,  is that I have no way of 
Ref: DRN86558184knowing how long the mortgage will continue  running and accruing interest, but the award I 
make has to be final, and bring closure  to the dispute once and for all.
Trying to assess how long the mortgage  might run is a sensitive subject;  its not just about 
how long Mrs H might  reasonably be expected to live; its also about  the possibility that 
Mrs H might need to sell her home,  repay the mortgage, and move  into full-time nursing care 
due to changed circumstances.
I agree  that theres a risk of Mrs H losing out if the mortgage is still running  beyond two 
years. Balanced  against that is the risk that Julian Harris might  end up over-compensating 
Mrs H if the mortgage is repaid less than two years  after settlement. Also, Mrs H will receive 
the two years worth of compound  interest  as a lump sum,  ahead of the interest being 
accrued, without any discounting,  and has the choice of what  she does with the money.  I 
have to be fair to both parties, and in my view, the award Ive proposed is a reasonable 
compromise between  the two conflicting  risks.
I take what Mr H1 says about pursuing a complaint against the solicitor; thats not a matter 
that falls within my remit, so Ive no comment to make.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I order  Julian Harris Mortgages 
Limited to:
credit  the mortgage with K with a sum equal to all of the interest  that has accrued on the 
additional £15,500 from the mortgage  start date to the settlement date;
pay Mrs H £1,725.73  to cover two years  worth future compound  interest on the 
additional £15,500;
credit  the mortgage with K with a sum equal to half of the interest that has accrued on 
the drawdowns from their respective  start dates to the settlement date;
meet any early repayment  charge(s)  that might be triggered by the crediting of the above 
amounts to the mortgage with K; and
pay Mrs H £1,000  compensation.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H1, on Mrs Hs 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8655818