K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2003. Mrs C says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And although Halifax says it didnt do 
anything wrong  in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer as if it had.
Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed  information 
here but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. But in any event Halifax  has offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont think it needs to do anything  more. Ive summarised 
my reasons  for each of these conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose  to 
take it out. I say this because PPI was selected  on Mrs Cs credit card application and 
Mrs C has signed  the form  confirming that she agreed with the selections on it.
Ref: DRN80444152Mrs C said Halifax didnt give her any advice, but Halifax  says it did. Giving advice puts 
more responsibility  on Halifax, it means  it had to check that the PPI was right for Mrs C. 
So Ive considered the case  on the basis that advice was given.  And the evidence about  
Mrs Cs circumstances at the time,  shows that the policy  wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for her. For example Mrs C was eligible  for the cover and she had limited  
means to fall back on, so she had a need for cover. 
There was nothing  about Mrs Cs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it 
difficult for her to claim. And although Mrs C told Halifax  she had a medical condition  
some time before the policy was taken out I dont  think  it was wrong  for Halifax to have 
recommended it. I say this because  I havent seen anything to suggest the condition 
reoccurred and Mrs C said she never  needed any time off of work for the condition. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mrs C as I concluded 
above, or too dissimilar  to what she reasonably  thought she was buying from the 
information she was given. It also looks like it was affordable   so it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think  Mrs C 
would have declined  the cover had Halifax done anything more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mrs Cs circumstances  at the time of sale and despite  its limitations, 
the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for her. So, I think she would have 
still thought she had some  good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mrs C would  have still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide 
a useful benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  she thought she was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mrs Cs representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Halifax should have disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Cs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Cs particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
Ref: DRN80444153Non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Halifax didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but 
in any event Halifax has offered to pay back  some  of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more  
it needs to do. My reasons  are set out below.
Was there an unfair relationship?
Mrs Cs representative has made a number of representations  about  this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on her complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mrs C should  get back all the money  she paid for the policy  
because: Halifax  failed to tell Mrs C about  the high commission and profit-share rates  paid, 
the low claims  ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover.  Because  they say that 
meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mrs C wouldnt have taken out the policy 
had they known about the level of commission and she should  receive  a refund of all the 
premiums she paid.
But in this case, Halifax has told us that the commission for Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of 
what she paid for each premium. Weve  looked at how Halifax has worked this out and 
based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mrs Cs case was less than 
half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Halifax needed  to tell Mrs C about  the commission. So it follows  that I dont think  
the non-disclosure created an unfair  relationship - I dont think Halifax treated Mrs C unfairly. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  need to pay Mrs C back any of the commission  she paid for the 
PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN80444154But in any event Halifax has offered to give back to Mrs C some of the cost of the PPI to 
compensate Mrs C as if it had treated her unfairly.  So I dont think it needs  to do anything 
more.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mrs Cs complaint or make any award in 
favour of her for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank  of Scotland Plc didnt need to disclose the commission  
it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mrs C paid for the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland Plc has offered  to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
Halifax should now make  arrangements  to pay Mrs C if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 September 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8044415