K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr A and Miss R say Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BOS) mis-sold them  
the PPI. 
background
Mr A and Miss R took a PPI policy in 1995 to cover the repayments on their mortgage in the 
event Mr A was unable to work because of illness, injury or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr A and Miss R didnt  agree,  
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr A and Miss Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nether BOS nor Mr A or Miss R have any documentation from the time of sale  thats not 
unreasonable given how long ago this policy was sold. But where I have limited information 
about a sale, I have to decide what I think is more likely. Mr A and Miss R say they didnt 
agree to take PPI and didnt know they had it. BOS says it wouldve made the optional 
nature of the PPI clear  and only added  it to their mortgage if theyd agree  to it.
While Ive thought  carefully about Mr A and Miss R have  said,  other than saying  they dont 
recall agreeing to it, they havent  said much  more than this. And I have to bear in mind that 
this sale happened  over 20 years ago and even the best of memories can fade over that 
time frame. So I dont think itd be fair to uphold a complaint solely  on the basis  of limited  
recollections from over 20 years ago.
Overall, with such little information available, I havent seen  enough to make me think that 
either BOS  didnt make it clear that the policy was optional or that Mr A and Miss R didnt 
agree to take it out.
BOS says it recommended  the PPI to Mr A (as the sole policy holder)  so it had to check the 
PPI was right for him  and based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example,  he was eligible for the policy and he wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.
Based on what Ive seen,  Mr A also seems to have  had a need  for the cover.  Mr A told us he 
had good sick pay provided by his employer. He also told BOS he had life insurance, critical 
illness cover  (CIC) and some  savings although  he wasnt sure how much.
But this policy wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months if Mr A was 
unable to work because illness or injury. It also provided up to 12 months  of cover for 
unemployment. And having the policy wouldve left his sick pay and savings available  for 
Ref: DRN88136132them to use on other essential expenditure. Life and CIC do not provide the same  type of 
cover as PPI. So I still think the PPI couldve been  useful for them  if Mr A had found himself 
unexpectedly out of work because of illness,  injury or unemployment.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr A and Miss R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable.
A mortgage is a long term and significant commitment  the consequence  of not being able 
to make repayments can be serious.  Based  on everything  Ive seen, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. So I dont think this 
policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 May 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8813613