K820x#14complaint
Mrs N has complained that ReAssure Limited asked her to pay money back under her 
husbands annuity after he passed  away.
background
Mr N had an annuity with ReAssure that was set up to make payments to Mrs N after he 
passed away.
Mrs Ns husband sadly passed away in January 2017  Mrs N told ReAssure about this on 
22 February 2017. ReAssure wrote  to Mrs N on 3 March 2017 to tell her how to set up her 
annuity and how to repay an overpayment that was made  to Mr N after his death.  Mrs N 
returned all of the information required, including telling ReAssure where to pay her annuity 
income. But she wasnt able to arrange the return of the overpayment  at that time as she 
didnt have access to Mr Ns bank  account,  which was also overdrawn.
In November 2017 ReAssure received back the overpayment of £365.80  from the solicitors 
dealing with Mr Ns estate. But as this was over six months since Mrs N had given her 
account information, it asked for her to provide this again. After ReAssure received this, it 
paid £424.92 on 29 November 2017 for the backdated annuity payment due to Mrs N. But it 
paid this into Mr Ns old account by mistake, so the payment was returned and then paid 
directly to Mrs N on 13 December  2017.
As Mrs Ns payment had been delayed between November and December 2017, ReAssure 
paid £150 to apologise. It also added  £1.96  in compensatory  interest for the time Mrs N was 
out of pocket between 29 November and 13 December 2017.
Mrs N complained as she didnt think ReAssures offer of £150  was enough. She said shed 
had to pay solicitors to arrange  the payment from Mr Ns old bank account to ReAssure and 
she wanted the fees paid.  Mrs N provided an invoice from the solicitor for £580.80  that she 
said was in relation  to this.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint. They thought  Mrs N had engaged solicitors 
as she wasnt in a position to repay the overpayment  made  to her late husband.  They didnt 
think ReAssure should have asked Mr N to pay anything back  as the annuity was in his 
name, not hers. So the adjudicator thought the solicitors  fees were  directly caused by 
ReAssures mistake.
ReAssure disagreed, so the complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018  and I came  to a different  conclusion to 
our investigator. I didnt  think ReAssure needed to pay anything toward the legal  fees and I 
thought its offer of £150 was fair for the mistake  leading to a two week delay in arranging the 
payment of Mrs Ns annuity.
I noted that Mrs N said shed involved solicitors to deal with ReAssure and the demand for 
payment of £365.80.  I saw that the solicitors had provided  an invoice for £580.80 that set out 
the details of the work done. It said:
Re: [Mr N]  Probate
Ref: DRN84739172To the provision of Legal Services in connection with the Estate of [Mr N]Taking 
your instructions and liaising with [Bank] and ReAssure in order  to obtain  a refund 
from the Bank Account to repay the overpayment  of pension to ReAssure. All 
correspondence and attendances throughout.
I looked at the letter  ReAssure sent Mrs N on 3 March 2017.  I noted that it set out that the 
last annuity payment made needed to be returned  as it was paid after Mr N had passed 
away. But I didnt think ReAssure had said Mrs N, rather than Mr Ns estate, was liable to 
pay this herself.
I saw there  were further discussions between ReAssure, Mrs N and her solicitor.  And I didnt 
think at any time ReAssure demanded a payment from Mrs N and, in fact, the solicitors said 
they were requesting a return of the overpaid annuity from Mr Ns bank account.
As I didnt  think ReAssure had asked  Mrs N to pay anything herself, I didnt think it needed to 
pay any of her legal  fees. And, as set out in the invoice,  I thought the fees that had been 
charged by the solicitors  were for work  dealing with Mr Ns estate. Although  I thought Mrs N 
got help from solicitors to deal with Mr Ns estate, I didnt think ReAssure had done  anything 
that meant  it had to pay any of the legal  fees.  
ReAssure neither agreed nor disagreed with my provisional decision.
Mrs N didnt agree with it. She also felt that ReAssure had asked her to pay back  the 
overpaid pension  directly and if she didnt, her annuity would have been withheld. 
Mrs N explained that although the solicitors invoice talked amount Mr Ns estate  and 
probate, he in fact died without  any assets  so there was no estate to speak of and probate 
wasnt applied for. The only thing the solicitors  did was to arrange  the repayment  to 
ReAssure from Mr Ns bank account.
Mrs N said she wasnt in a position to speak with the bank  directly  due to the loss of her 
husband. And she wasnt able to arrange the repayment herself without the death  certificate,  
which was delayed through no fault of her own. She said she had spoken with ReAssure and 
explained the problems, but she appointed  solicitors  as she couldnt cope with liaising  with 
ReAssure whilst waiting for the death certificate and as the bank werent  helping  with the 
situation either. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened carefully  to what Mrs N has said about this complaint. Having  done  so, I still 
dont think it would be fair to ask ReAssure to pay the legal fees.
Ive thought about what happened and when. Ive looked at the records  ReAssure has of the 
calls Mrs N made, as well as copies of the correspondence between the parties.
Mrs N called ReAssure 22 February  2017 to explain that her husband had passed away  the 
month before.  ReAssure  wrote to her on 3 March, as detailed  in the background to this 
decision, and Mrs N called ReAssure again on 7 March 2017. Ive seen the notes of what  
was said in that call and its recorded  that Mrs N said her husbands  account  was overdrawn, 
Ref: DRN84739173that she wasnt able to get a statement from the bank and her solicitor was now in touch with 
the bank. Mrs N said the matter was now in the hands of her solicitor and she gave  
ReAssure the solicitors details. There is a note that Mrs N called again the next day to ask if 
documents would  be signed for. I cant see there were any calls made after that and Mrs N 
has said she doesnt remember  any other calls.
Importantly, I cant  see that its recorded Mrs N told ReAssure that the only reason she 
approached the solicitor  was to help with returning  the overpayment  or whether shed asked 
ReAssure what,  if any, help it could give in getting  the payment back. 
I think its most likely  Mrs N asked her solicitor to deal with the overpayment  following 
ReAssures letter of 3 March 2017. Having  read the letter, I dont think this contained any 
demand for payment from Mrs N nor does it say the overpayment needed to be returned  
before her annuity  would  be set up. So at that point  I think ReAssure had simply asked for 
the overpayment  to be paid back  something that happens  when  someone  who is receiving 
an annuity passes  away. 
I think Mrs N went  to her solicitor to get help dealing with the administrative matters  that 
followed her husband  passing away and, as she told our service, to help speak with Mr Ns 
bank which  wasnt speaking with Mrs N at the time. Although this might have been because 
ReAssure asked for the annuity payment to be returned, I dont think it was in response  to 
any demands made by ReAssure to Mrs N.
And I think the only mistake ReAssure  made  was in paying Mrs Ns annuity into her late 
husbands bank  account. It put this right quickly and I cant see her solicitor was involved 
with dealing with this mistake. As I said in my provisional decision, I think the £150 offer for 
this mistake was fair compensation.
Ive thought about Mrs Ns comments that, although the invoice talks about Mr Ns estate 
and probate, no probate was actually applied for. I think  this shows  the solicitor was 
appointed to help with the winding up of Mr Ns affairs after he passed away  and terms like 
estate and probate reflect that. I dont  think there  was a requirement for Mrs N to use a 
solicitor, but I think she chose to, as many people do, to get help at what  was 
understandably a difficult  time.
Mrs N has also said she felt she was being asked to pay back  the overpayment  made  to 
Mr N after he passed away in her personal  capacity, rather  than on behalf of Mr Ns estate. I 
dont doubt Mrs N felt this as shes been  consistent in saying it. But I cant see that 
ReAssure did anything  wrong in the way it made requests for the repayment to Mrs N. For 
example, Mrs N has explained that Mr Ns annuity  was paid into his own account,  not a joint 
account that she had access to. But I cant see Mrs N ever made  this clear to ReAssure  after 
it sent the letter to her on 3 March 2017.
Ive also seen a letter from the solicitor dated 25 April 2017, setting out that they had 
requested the return of overpaid annuity  from Mr Ns bank. I cant  see that they ever said to 
ReAssure that it had improperly asked for money from Mrs N or felt that they needed  to 
clarify what had happened. So I think this shows the solicitors didnt think there  was anything 
wrong with ReAssures request.
Mrs N has said she was told over the phone by ReAssure that she needed to repay the 
money herself and that she asked for ReAssure to contact Mr Ns bank itself.  But 
unfortunately I havent seen any records to show those calls took place. So based on the 
Ref: DRN84739174evidence I have seen,  I dont think it would be fair to tell ReAssure to pay the legal fees as 
Mrs N has asked.
Ive again thought about whether ReAssure should have paid out Mrs Ns annuity before the 
overpayment had been repaid  ReAssure has said it had to correct  the tax situation before 
it could work  out Mrs Ns annuity  payment.  But I dont think I need to make  a finding on this 
point. I say that because she now has the money  that she was due. And I think the offer of 
£150 for the trouble shes been put to fairly  compensates her for any delays that happened 
with the annuity payment in November  and December  2017.
So although  I have  a great  deal of sympathy for Mrs N and I understand she has been 
through a very difficult time, I think ReAssures offer is fair in all the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think ReAssure Limiteds offer of £150 is fair. I direct it pays  
this to Mrs N if it hasnt  done so already.
I make  no further award against ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8473917