K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains, through  his representative,  that National Westminster  Bank  Plc wont  write 
off his debt even though  he has a mental health  condition and is in financial difficulties.
background 
Mr B opened  his credit card account with NatWest in April 2013. His representative 
contacted it in November 2016 about  his mental  health condition and financial difficulties. 
NatWest stopped all interest and charges  and agreed a repayment  plan of £1 a month.  It 
eventually arranged for the debt to be managed by its Specialised Support Team.  But it 
wouldnt write off the debt which  is over £3,000
Mr Bs representative contacted NatWest again in September 2017 to say that Mr Bs 
financial circumstances hadnt changed and his mental health condition  was deteriorating 
due to his anxiety about his finances.  In October  2017 Mr Bs doctor  completed a form about 
his mental health  condition  as requested by NatWest.
NatWest initially agreed that Mr B should repay £1 every month but then placed his account  
on hold for three months. It told Mr Bs representative that it wasnt  its policy to write off 
debts as it is felt that this encourages the mis-use  of credit facilities.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had done  anything wrong.  She thought NatWest had 
acted in a positive and sympathetic way when it knew about  Mr Bs difficulties. She said itd 
considered his situation, and had taken steps  to stop the debt from increasing.  Itd agreed to 
repayments of £1 a month (which it was willing to put on hold) to offer him further assistance. 
And his account  has been placed  with its Specialised Support  team.  So she couldnt  see that 
NatWest could reasonably do anything more.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 January 2019. Ive enclosed  a copy of this, as it forms 
part of this final decision. In this I explained  that I thought it would be fair and reasonable for 
NatWest to stop pursuing Mr B for the remaining balance on his account and to remove this 
from his credit file.
Mr Bs representative responded saying they felt the decision was fair  although they hadnt 
heard from Mr B directly.  NatWest responded, explaining that it appreciated the sensitivity  of 
Mr Bs personal circumstances and had considered  MALG. But it questioned the removal  of 
the account from Mr Bs credit file. It felt that continuing to report this was in line with the 
guidance, accurate  and served as a sign to other  lenders of the difficulties Mr B had in 
servicing the account. So I now need to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side has added anything to the reasoning  in my provisional  decision as to why 
NatWest should  stop pursuing Mr B for the outstanding  balance  here. So, on that basis,  I 
see no reason to depart from what Ive said about that in my provisional decision.  I remain  of 
the view that this is a fair outcome here and for the reasons already given.
Ref: DRN83650612But Ive considered the point that NatWest  raised about removing the record of the account  
from Mr Bs credit  file. I said to NatWest  and to Mr Bs representative that I thought this was 
a fair point. My provisional decision was intended  to remove any reference of this debt so 
Mr B could move on from this situation. But I think accurately reporting  the account  on his 
credit file is in line with the Money  Advice Liaison Group guidance and is something thats 
been suggested with Mr Bs interests at heart.
Mr Bs representative said that he felt this was fair, but despite  a significant period of time, 
neither he, nor this service has heard from Mr B. So with a view to being quick  and informal, 
I think its only right that I reach  my final decision now.
In the circumstances here, as both parties  have confirmed that they understand why I dont 
think its fair for NatWest  to pursue the debt. All that remains  is whether it should report  this 
on the credit  file. I think its fair to do so in the way that NatWest has suggested. That is, to 
continue to report the accurate conduct  of the account, including any amendments that need 
to be made  to reflect the fact its no longer pursuing  the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should  stop pursuing  Mr B any 
further for this debt.  It should also amend his credit  file to reflect this and write to him to 
confirm these actions  have been  taken.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN83650613Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr B complains, through his representative,  that National Westminster Bank Plc wont write off his 
debt even though he has a mental health  condition and is in financial difficulties.
background
Mr B opened  his credit card account with NatWest in April 2013. His representative  contacted  it in 
November 2016 about his mental health condition and financial difficulties.  NatWest stopped all 
interest and charges and agreed a repayment plan of £1 a month. It eventually arranged for the debt 
to be managed by its Specialised Support Team. But it wouldnt write off the debt which  is over 
£3,000
Mr Bs representative contacted  NatWest again in September 2017 to say that Mr Bs financial 
circumstances hadnt changed and his mental health condition was deteriorating due to his anxiety 
about his finances.  In October 2017 Mr Bs doctor completed  a form about  his mental health condition 
as requested by NatWest.
NatWest initially agreed that Mr B should repay £1 every month but then placed his account on hold 
for three  months. It told Mr Bs representative  that it wasnt its policy to write off debts as it is felt that 
this encourages the mis-use of credit facilities .
Our investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong. She thought  NatWest had acted in a 
positive and sympathetic way when it knew about Mr Bs difficulties.  She said itd considered his 
situation, and had taken  steps to stop the debt from increasing. Itd agreed to repayments of £1 a 
month (which it was willing to put on hold)  to offer him further assistance. And his account  has been 
placed with its Specialised Support team. So she couldnt see that NatWest could reasonably  do 
anything more.
Mr Bs and his representative disagreed  with this and still felt that NatWest should  write off what he 
owed. So the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has been experiencing serious  financial difficulties for a number of years. His financial difficulties 
are closely linked to his mental health condition. When a customer is experiencing financial 
difficulties, as Mr B is here, the relevant guidelines say that lenders  should treat them positively and 
sympathetically.
I dont think theres any dispute as to whether NatWest has treated Mr B with positively and 
sympathetically here. Its always been willing to discuss Mr Bs situation with him and with his 
representatives. Its agreed helpful payment  plans and various concessions to try and help him too. 
So I think NatWest has treated Mr B fairly here.
The outstanding issue here is whether NatWest should help Mr B further and write off the debt in 
light of his difficulties  and mental  health condition. So its this that Ill focus on in my decision.
relevant considerations
In coming to my decision I have looked at relevant guidance  for situations like this one. The relevant 
sections of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC)  are:
Ref: DRN83650614CONC 7.2.1
A firm must establish and implement  clear,  effective  and appropriate policies and procedures for:
1. dealing with customers whose accounts fall into arrears;
2. the fair and appropriate  treatment  of customers, who the firm understands or reasonably suspects 
to be particularly  vulnerable.
CONC 7.2.2
Customers who have mental health difficulties or mental capacity limitations may fall into the category  
of particularly vulnerable customers .
CONC 7.2.3
In developing procedures  and policies  for dealing with customers  who may not have the mental  
capacity to make financial  decisions, firms may wish to have regard to the principles outlined in the 
Money Advice Liaison  Group (MALG) Guidelines  Good Practice Awareness Guidelines for 
Consumers with Mental Health Problems and Debt.
The Money  Advice Liaison Group (MALG) is a not-for-profit  organisation that encourages 
organisations to work together to improve the lives of people with problem  debt. Its Good
Practice Awareness Guidelines  for Helping  Consumers  with Mental  Health Conditions &
Debt was launched  in March 2015. Alongside  being acknowledged by the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in CONC, these guidelines have also been approved by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and this Service. The guidelines have also been included  in 
a number of creditor trade body Codes of Practice.
The guidelines say:
The Creditors  should consider writing off unsecured  debts when mental health conditions are long-
term, hold out little likelihood of improvement,  and are such that it is highly unlikely  that the person  in 
debt would be able repay their outstanding debts.
The request for a write off is a last resort when the consumers mental health condition  is serious 
enough to merit a write off and/or the consumer  has little or no disposable  income, no significant 
available assets and an insolvency remedy is not an appropriate option. The creditor should consider 
fully writing off the debt so that the balance is set to zero or nil, and that no further payments are due. 
This should be reported to the consumer and relevant  third parties including credit reference agencies 
and the consumers authorised adviser.
should NatWest write  off Mr Bs debt here?
Mr Bs GP has completed a Debt and Mental Health Evidence Form  (DMHEF) which  explains why he 
is a vulnerable customer. This is a form from MALG to help debt advisors  and creditors in getting 
clear, relevant and comprehensive  information in a standard format from health and social care 
professionals. The form is designed to help creditors to make appropriate  decisions about the debts of 
their customers.
In Mr Bs completed DMHEF, his GP confirms that Mr B has had a mental health disorder since 2009 
which affects  his ability to manage his money. The treatment and support he receives  also affects  this 
too.
So Ive looked at the contents of this form alongside what Mr Bs representatives have  told NatWest 
and this service about his situation. Mr B last worked in December 2013.  His representative tells us 
he was diagnosed with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder  (PTSD)  as well as an anxiety disorder  and 
depression. Hes was on a waiting list for over a year awaiting specialist mental  health support and 
has been told that he may be waiting for up to another year before treatment can begin.
Ref: DRN83650615He receives Personal Independence Payments (PIP) as his only income.  This was awarded  due to 
his need for assistance with daily living related to his mental health problems. He lives in rented 
accommodation. He has no assets other than a car which is worth between  approximately £300 and 
£500 but which is necessary as his anxiety stops him from using public transport. Hes sold most 
things of any value to service his debts since he stopped working.
His representative tells us Mr B finds simple day to day tasks overwhelming. He suffers from 
confusion and memory lapses. He has difficulty reading, gets muddled by figures  and confused by 
anything but basic instructions. He also struggles to be in public and isolates himself at home.
Mr B hasnt worked for five years and it seems to me that he doesnt have any realistic prospect of 
returning to work for some  considerable time. NatWest has agreed plans  to help Mr B but its clear 
that these  arent  sustainable  ways of repaying  the debt over time.  Hes been paying £1 a month for 
some time and going forward there doesnt seem to be any prospect of this changing.
The information from the GP here confirms that his treatment is ongoing and that hes had life-long  
issues with anxiety. Mr Bs representative also confirmed  he has little disposable  income and doesnt 
have any significant available  assets.
I also note that all of Mr Bs other creditors have  decided not to pursue him for what he owes them. So 
it seems that, in these circumstances, Mr Bs only remaining option would be to potentially pursue 
bankruptcy. But that doesnt  seem  an appropriate or proportionate step for just this one outstanding 
debt with NatWest in the overall  circumstances here.
Referring back to the MALG guidelines, the GP confirms that Mr Bs mental health condition is long-
term. He holds out little likelihood of improvement, and its highly unlikely that he will be able to repay 
his outstanding debts.  Ive also noted that he has little income, no significant  available  assets and an 
insolvency remedy is not an appropriate or proportionate option. And, his GP has confirmed that Mr B 
is overwhelmed daily by money  worries.  So I acknowledge that NatWest agreeing to accept £1 a 
month and put payments on hold is helpful. But I also have  to consider  that the debt remaining 
outstanding is going to cause Mr B further distress given the nature of his condition.
So in the specific circumstances of this complaint,  I think it would be fair and reasonable for NatWest 
to write off Mr Bs debt as a last resort.
I realise that NatWest feels that by doing this, it would encourage  the mis-use of credit facilities. I 
understand why NatWest says this, after all when a customer has had use of credit provided by a 
lender, its a general principle that they should pay it back.
But I dont think writing  off the debt would encourage the mis-use of credit facilities  here, given the 
very individual circumstances. Mr B has provided consistent, detailed  information  about  his situation 
and why he is vulnerable. Hes provided  that information in line with the guidelines Ive mentioned, 
which say that, in these circumstances  a write  off should be considered. So Ive considered this and 
having done  so, while its not a step our service would often tell a business  to take, I think that writing  
off the debt  in line with the MALG guidelines - is the fair and reasonable thing to do in all the 
circumstances here.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments or evidence I receive  from either party,  I intend to uphold this 
complaint and order National Westminster Bank Plc to stop pursuing Mr B any further for this debt 
and to remove  any record  of it from his credit file. It should also write to Mr B to confirm that this action  
has been taken.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8365061