K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about the decision  taken  by Cigna Europe Insurance  Company SA to 
withdraw its personal accident insurance  policy.
background
Mr T took out a personal accident policy in 1987. The policy renewed each year. In 2018, 
Cigna told Mr T it wouldnt  be renewing  his cover, as it was withdrawing  the policy from the 
market. Unhappy with this, Mr T brought a complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She thought Cignas decision to 
withdraw the policy was a legitimate exercise  of its commercial judgement. 
Mr T didnt  accept the adjudicators findings, so the matters been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions confirm that the policy is renewable  annually.  And I see that 
Mr Ts policy schedules make  it clear his cover  is for one year.  His latest policy schedule 
says that cover ends  on 25 October 2019.
Im satisfied that as this is an annually renewable policy rather than a long-term contract, 
Cigna isnt obliged  to continue to provide cover at the policy renewal date.
In early 2019, Cigna  wrote to Mr T to advise  that it wouldnt be able to renew  his policy  from 
25 October 2019. 
Cignas confirmed that it has made  a business  decision  not to renew  any of its personal 
accident policies  from their next renewal date as its exiting the health market.  Im satisfied 
that this was a commercial decision that Cigna was entitled  to make.  
Cigna gave Mr T over seven months notice of its intention to withdraw from the market. I 
think this was fair notice,  as it gave Mr T sufficient opportunity  to look for a new policy with 
another insurer. In the end, Mr T decided to cancel his Cigna policy before it ended on 
25 October 2019, which was of course  his decision to make. 
Whilst I can understand Mr Ts disappointment that Cigna  decided to withdraw the policy  
from the market, Cigna was entitled  to use its commercial judgment to stop offering the 
policy and so I dont  find that it did anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN84829862Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8482986