K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  about the short term loans she took out with Gain  Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream. Miss G says that the charges and interest were unfair. She says she 
couldnt afford to repay the loans  due to her financial  situation.  And that if Lending Stream 
had made  better checks it wouldve seen  this and not lent to her. 
background
Miss G took out three instalment loans between February 2012 and May 2013.  Some  of the 
information Lending Stream has given us is shown in the table below: 
loan  
numberdate startedamount  
borrowedmonthly 
repaymentsdated  
ended
1 01/02/2012 £505.00 6 04/02/2012
2 28/05/2013 £865.00 6 outstanding
3 30/05/2013 £155.00 5 18/10/2013
Lending Stream has looked at Miss Gs complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld.  It said 
that it did appropriate checks for these loans. And these checks showed that the lending  was 
affordable. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Miss G and Lending Stream  said. She thought 
Miss Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld  as she thought that Lending Streams  decisions to 
lend were reasonable. 
Miss G didnt  agree with our adjudicator. She said that the money  that was taken  from her 
account didnt  match what Lending Streams records showed. 
So as no agreements been reached  the complaints been passed to me to me to issue  a 
decision.
Miss G has also complained about  the actions of the third party  that purchased the 
outstanding debt on loan 2 from Lending  Stream. I can confirm that I can only consider the 
actions of Lending Stream as part of this complaint.  So I wont be able to look at the issues 
Miss G has raised about this. 
There is also a dispute about the payments Miss G has made both to Lending Stream and 
the third party.  I understand this is being looked  at elsewhere and so I also wont  be able to 
look at this as part of this decision. 
But I can look at whether Lending Stream acted  correctly  when it approved the loans to Miss 
G and Ive done this below.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ref: DRN84184922Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. The lending  shouldnt adversely impact a consumers financial situation.  
The guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory  checks.  But they are clear that 
any checks needed to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different 
things. This could include how much was being  lent, the size of the repayments  and what  the 
lender found out about the consumer. 
So Ive firstly looked at whether Lending Stream  performed proportionate checks. If I think 
that the checks were  proportionate then it usually wouldve been  reasonable for it to lend. 
But if Lending Stream  didnt do proportionate  checks Ive looked  at whether it wouldve been 
apparent to it that the loan repayments  were affordable had it done  better  checks. 
Lending Stream should put things  right if its likely to have then found that the loan 
repayments were unaffordable.  
Lending Stream says it asked out about  Miss Gs monthly income and expenditure. It says 
she told them her income  was around £2,500  and her expenditure was around  £1,000.  It 
says it also used credit reference  agency  data to verify the information Miss G had provided, 
to check if she was creditworthy and to find out about her other  credit  obligations. And based  
on what it saw from this it thought it reasonable to lend to Miss G.
why I think Lending Streams checks were proportionate for loans 1 to 3
For loan 1 Miss G needed to make six monthly repayments, the highest was around £150. 
She repaid this loan almost straight away and then started loan 2 over two months later.  The 
highest repayment for this loan was over £250. And loan 3 was started whilst loan 2 was still 
running which meant that Miss G would need to repay up to around £375  in the second 
month she was due to make repayments.  
As Ive outlined above, the information Miss G provided when she completed her loan 
application said that she had, on average, a large  disposable income. So it would  be 
reasonable for Lending Stream to initially assume that Miss G could afford  to make the 
repayments. 
And there was a reasonable gap between loans 1 and 2. And Miss G only took 3 loans in 
total. So it wouldve  also been reasonable for Lending Stream  to have assumed that Miss G 
wasnt dependent on short term lending. And that her financial situation  wasnt worsening 
over time. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely Lending Stream  was made  aware 
of any financial problems  Miss G mightve  been  having before it approved the loans. Or 
anything that wouldve  prompted it to investigate  Miss Gs circumstances further. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for Lending  Stream to rely on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  Lending Stream did for these 
two loans were proportionate. And I think Lending  Streams decisions to lend for these  loans 
were reasonable so Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint about them. 
Ref: DRN84184923my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418492