K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy 
about the way it settled  a claim under his car insurance policy.  And about the service it 
provided in dealing with his claim.
background
Mr K was involved  in a minor motoring incident  with a fire engine.  So he made  a claim under 
his policy. The AA initially held the other side responsible for the accident. But they disputed  
this and the matter  was eventually settled on split liability (50/50) basis.
But Mr K wasnt  happy  about this as he thought  the fire engine  was completely at fault and 
questioned the AAs decision. He wondered why it hadnt got all the CCTV evidence from the 
time of the accident and thought that the other driver  was fully at fault. So he complained to 
this service.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Mr K but didnt uphold his complaint. He thought that 
the AA had undertaken a reasonable  investigation into the circumstances surrounding the 
accident. And he thought its offer of £100  compensation, in acknowledgment of some of its 
delays and poor service,  was fair.
As Mr K didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I wish to reassure Mr K that I have taken  
all his points into account when considering his complaint. 
Ive listened to his latest  call detailing  his concerns about the claim and considered all of his 
written representations. Having considered all the points raised  the key issue is that Mr K 
disputes liability and believes that the other  side should be held fully liable for this incident. 
As has already  been explained to Mr K this service  cant decide who is or isnt liable  for an 
accident - as that is a matter for the courts. But we do look to ensure insurers  act fairly when 
they look to settle  claims.
The AAs policy, like most insurers, allows it to take over the settlement of any claim. So it 
has the right to decide whether to settle  a claim  or take the other side to court. But legal 
proceedings are time-consuming, expensive and the outcome can be uncertain.  So it often 
isnt commercially  sensible to take legal action  against the other  side. 
But, as outlined above, this services general  approach is to look to ensure that insurers  act 
fairly in deciding how to settle a claim. We expect insurers  to make a reasonable 
assessment; based on a clear understanding of the evidence  and the circumstances of the 
accident. 
In line with this I have carefully considered  how the AA has handled this claim. I know  Mr K 
feels that it hasnt  carried  out a reasonable  investigation  into the circumstances surrounding  
the accident and looked to gain all CCTV evidence. But it initially looked to hold the other 
side fully liable when  Mr K first reported  it - so it clearly tried to fully defend him. However, 
the third party  didnt accept this. And as there wasnt any independent  evidence  to support 
Ref: DRN87775002Mr Ks version of events  it settled  the matter  on a split liability basis  as both sides blamed 
each other.  
I know Mr K had a number of people  in his car at the time of the incident. But they arent 
classed as independent witnesses as he knows them. And although I agree with Mr K that it 
wouldve been preferable  for the AA to try and gain the CCTV at an earlier  stage. It was 
established that any potential CCTV evidence wasnt facing the right direction. So although I 
can understand Mr Ks frustration, that the CCTV evidence wasnt gained and considered  in 
full initially, I cant be sure which  way the CCTV cameras faced and any potential evidence  
available on them. Furthermore, I know Mr K would like the speed  cameras  looked at from 
near the scene.  But as has been explained they wont show  the movements of the vehicles 
involved. So I dont  think the AA has acted  unreasonably in not getting these even if they 
were able to get them  at the time.
I know Mr K also feels that the drivers employer has withheld the drivers details and that 
would make it difficult for him to pursue the other driver at court. But Im sure the employer is 
looking to protect the identity of their driver and if proceedings commenced  against the third 
party all necessary  details  would be provided.  I know Mr K was upset at the time about the 
way the other driver behaved,  in that they were confrontational and difficult, but that would 
also be open to interpretation and wouldnt affect liability at the point of impact.
So, although  I can understand Mr Ks frustration; as hes had to pay an excess;  hes left with 
a fault claim that will affect  future premiums; and the fact that he was at the scene and 
knows what happened. But I think the AA has acted reasonably. I say this as liability  is very 
difficult to prove and both sides maintain that they were established in their lanes. So I think 
the AA has acted fairly in settling the claim on a split liability  basis  and I dont require it to 
take any further action.
Finally, I note that the AA has offered £100 compensation to account for some of the delays 
and poor complaint handling. I judge  this to be a fair and reasonable amount, and do not 
require it to increase  its offer.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8777500