K820x#14complaint
Ms P complaints that Morses Club Plc (Morses Club) are holding  her responsible for three 
doorstep loans  which  she says she didnt  enter  into. 
background
Ms P disputes having entered into three loans agreement between  2012 and 2013. She 
claims not to have obtained  any new borrowing since moving from London to Wales  in 2012. 
On 15 September  2020 I issued my provisional  decision  on this complaint.  
In summary,  I said:
-The address  on each disputed agreement was Ms Ps correct  and current  address;
-The signature on each  agreement appeared similar to a recent genuine example of 
Ms Ps signature;
-Morses Clubs records indicate  they were in contact with Ms P on a significant  
number of occasions, over a period  of many months, about the debts and notes 
indicate she may have  been aware of specific loans  and balances;
-The fact Ms P didnt  report  the loans for almost six years  and continued  to 
intermittently make payments during this time didnt suggest the loans were 
fraudulent;
-The significant delay  also explains  why some information is no longer available;
-Inconsistencies in the information provided  by Morses Club appear to be as a result 
of administrative errors;
-Ms P had, at times, seemed uncertain  about which  loans she was disputing;  and
-Theres no plausible explanation of how someone would have been able to take out 
the loans without Ms Ps consent or knowledge
I invited both sides to respond with any further  information.
Morses Club told us they agreed with my provisional decision and didnt have anything 
further to add. 
Ms P said she didnt agree and continued  to dispute  having entered into the loan 
agreements. 
In response, she said:
-An expert had found the signatures  on the disputed agreements to be dissimilar to 
her own;
-Shed  never taken  out a loan with Morses Club, only the lender which had been 
acquired by them;
-Morses Club couldnt tell her who visited her property and signed the paperwork;
-Shed  been  told by two different members of staff that shed never had a loan from 
Morses Club; and 
-Morses Club agents would not visit on a Saturday, when one of the loan agreements 
was signed. 
Ref: DRN82768942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
finding as my provisional decision. Ill explain why below.
Ms P says an expert has found  the signatures  on the disputed loan agreements to be 
dissimilar to her own.  Ms P hasnt presented  any evidence of this claim.  Even  if true, I cant  
rule out her signature  having changed  over time, nor the strength of the other evidence  
indicating she entered the agreements.
The disputed agreements appear to be signed  by a named representative  of Morses Club 
and, more likely than not, the agent that visited  Ms P. And, all three agreements were  signed 
on a Friday, rather than a Saturday.
Given the passage  of time, I wouldnt expect Morses Club to be able to provide any more 
information about the loans than they have  done. The evidence  that has been provided  
satisfies me that Morses  Club havent  made  a mistake in pursuing  Ms P for the loans. 
Its possible there is some confusion on Ms Ps part given the fact Morses Club acquired  the 
right to collect the loans  having bought  up a previous loan provider which  operated under a 
different name. Whether that is the case or not, I remain satisfied Morses Club has acted 
fairly and reasonably in pursuing  the debt with Ms P.
As already stated  in my provisional decision, Id expect Morses Club to treat Ms P fairly in 
relation to the repayment of the two outstanding loans and ensure that any payment plan is 
affordable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8276894