K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Santander UK Plc (when it was trading as Abbey National) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on, Ill just refer to Santander in my decision as it is responsible  for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 2008, Mr V took out a PPI policy alongside his mortgage. He paid a monthly amount for 
the policy and it protected  his mortgage repayments  if he couldnt work because  of accident 
and sickness. The policy was added at a meeting with the bank.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Vs complaint. Mr V disagrees. So his complaint comes to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Vs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr V says he was unaware  he was paying  for PPI. I cant  know  what he discussed with the 
bank at the time PPI was added. It isnt reasonable to expect Mr V to recall  exactly what  was 
said at the time after so long. This means  that what Mr V says about how Santander  sold 
him the PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have to look 
at everything,  and decide what I think is most likely,  taking everything into account. 
Ive seen the mortgage offer Mr V was sent at the time. This said that Mr V didnt have to 
take out any insurances through  Santander  to get the mortgage.  Ive also seen the high level 
needs analysis  completed at the time. Its noted on this, that Mr V wants to protect his 
mortgage repayments in the event of accident or sickness. He didnt select unemployment  
cover, so I think it likely  that he selected the type of cover that best suited his needs at the 
time. I think these documents can be reasonably relied on, to show  Mr Vs position at the 
time of sale.  Santander no longer has a copy of his PPI application, but thats not surprising, 
banks often only keep  records  for six years.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think its likely that at the time Mr V said he wanted to have the 
benefits PPI offered him and he decided  to buy the policy.
 
Its noted on the higher level needs  analysis that Santander hasnt given Mr V any advice 
about PPI. So, I dont think Santander  had to consider whether PPI was suitable  for him, but 
it still had to give him the important policy information in a clear way. 
Ive thought about whether the policy was appropriate for Mr V and whether having clearer  
information mightve made a difference to whether he decided  to buy the policy or not. But, I 
cant see that he has lost out in any way because of the information he was given. I say this 
because Mr V said he wasnt eligible to get any sick pay through work.  The policy wouldve 
Ref: DRN85847322covered his mortgage repayments for up to 12 months per successful  claim for accident and 
sickness. I think this wouldve been  important to him, to protect his home.  He said he had no 
other means  of making his repayments, so again I think the PPI couldve provided  him with 
valuable cover at a difficult time, if he wasnt working. 
Its possible Santander didnt point out some  things the policy didnt cover.  But, Mr V doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those. I dont think its likely  this information wouldve 
made any difference to his decision to take out PPI. I dont know  if the PPI cost was made 
clear to Mr V when the policy  was added. But, I cant see that the policy  was unaffordable 
and the monthly  premium  couldve  been cancelled at any time without Mr V losing out 
financially.  
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. 
However, I think Mr V still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been  given clearer 
information as it gave him useful protection. I dont find that Mr V has lost out as a result  of 
anything Santander  did wrong. So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Kim Parsons 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8584732