K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about National House-Building Councils (NHBC)  handling of their 
claim following an agreement that was made  between the parties.
background
The background to this complaint is well-known  to both parties, so I wont  repeat it at length
here and will instead focus on the reasons for reaching my findings.
Mr and Mrs W have  had ongoing  issues with the doors leading out onto the balcony  of their
property. They referred a complaint to our service  in 2018 and it was informally  
recommended that NHBC should  either  repair the door stays  or replace the doors  entirely if
it was unable to do repair them.  Both parties accepted our investigators informal  findings.
Mr and Mrs W now complain that NHBC have  delayed getting this issue resolved and have
caused significant delays. They say that NHBC has been unable to source  suitable  door
stays in order to fix the issue so it should  now replace the doors in line with the previous
findings.
NHBC has now proposed door stays  which it believes to be suitable and says these are a
suitable resolution to the claim.  But it has acknowledged that there was a significant  delay
and offered Mr and Mrs W £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience those
delays caused.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 June 2020  letting  both parties know  that I didnt intend  
to uphold the complaint. In it, I said:
An investigator has already considered  the events leading up to 2018 and an informal
agreement was reached between the parties about the next steps.  I wont be considering
that issue any further as it has already been  investigated  and agreed  on  so it wouldnt be
appropriate to comment on it further here.
I also havent considered the issues Mr and Mrs W raised about other flats within the
building. Each  leaseholder will need to raise their own complaint if they have  concerns  about
their property. This decision refers only to Mr and Mrs W.
delays
Mr and Mrs W initially complained about the delays that occurred  after a settlement had
been agreed between them and NHBC.  As I understand it, NHBC researched and proposed
some different door stays that could be used during this period but none of these were
acceptable. While I understand this took NHBC some time, it seems  that it took over six
months for NHBC  to find a suitable  alternative.
As I understand it, NHBC has offered Mr and Mrs W £400  compensation for this issue. Like
the investigator, I think this amount fairly  reflects the distress and inconvenience caused by
NHBCs delay in finding an alternative  means of repair. And as Mr and Mrs W previous
accepted our investigators findings,  including her findings on this issue, it seems that this
element of the complaint  is resolved so I wont go into any further detail.
door stays
Since Mr and Mrs Ws initial complaint to this service about the delays, they have raised  a
Ref: DRN89741942further concern.  NHBC has proposed to install  a new door stay to the existing doors  in the
property. Mr and Mrs W dont think this will be suitable because, while  the door stay is of
high-grade stainless  steel, it is being  attached  to an aluminium door frame. Mr W believes
this is likely to make the door frame susceptible to distortion.
NHBC has provided us with some of the research it has done  into these door stays and
whether they would be fit for purpose. NHBC has sought the advice of a chartered surveyor
in order establish  that these door stays would be suitable for the extreme  conditions in the
location of the property.  The surveyor has confirmed  that he would need to visit the site and
check the suitability  but appears to believe that they are suitable  based on the information he
has seen  and has been given enough information  to provide an estimate for these works.
A resolution  report was issued in 2009 which explained that the door stays  needed  to be
suitably durable  and appropriate for the location. It also set out that the doors needed to
meet NHBCs technical requirements, which is that the doors should be designed  and
specified to ensure adequate performance in service. And having considered  the evidence
Ive been given, I think NHBCs suggestions appears to meet that criteria so Im satisfied that
replacing the door stays is a reasonable next step in progressing  this claim.
I realise that Mr and Mrs W have concerns about  this and whether the repair would be
effective and long-lasting. But they are not experts  and the evidence I have from a chartered
surveyor, who is an expert suggests  that this repair could resolve the issue. So, while  I can
understand their concerns given the background of the claim, I think NHBCs proposal to
replace the door stays in the first instance is reasonable. NHBC has also confirmed that if
the repair is carried out, NHBC has liability for any failure.
I note that Mr and Mrs W have raised concerns about the aesthetics of the door stays. But
NHBC isnt required to find a door stay that looks similar to the original one. And it is entitled
to pursue the most  cost-effective  option  available to it where that is a reasonable course of
action, as I believe it is here.
In conclusion I believe NHBC has proposed a seemingly suitable solution  at this stage and
should be given  the opportunity to implement it. Should  this fail then I think  it should consider
its previous agreement with Mr and Mrs W and settle the claim in line with it.
NHBC replied  to say it accepted my provisional decision and would like to include an 
agreement that if this repair fails then the next step would be replacement doors. Mr and 
Mrs W replied to say they disagreed with my provisional decision. So the complaint has been 
passed back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W responded to my provisional  decision with several points, which  I have considered. 
However, the comments Mr W has made  appear  to be based mainly on his own opinion and 
interpretation of previous  reports. I agree that previous surveyors  have commented  that they 
didnt believe there was a suitable  door stay on the market and of course  there is the 
possibility that these could fail. But NHBC has provided an expert  opinion  stating that he 
believes the current proposed door stays to be suitable. And NHBC is entitled to find the 
most cost-effective solution, rather than Mr and Mrs Ws preferred solution  so I think Mr W 
Ref: DRN89741943needs to allow NHBC to investigate whether these door stays would be suitable  in the first 
instance by allowing it to carry out a site visit.
Mr W has raised concerns about health and safety,  but a site visit will need to be conducted 
before NHBC decides whether these door stays are suitable, and I would expect its expert  to 
take these issues  into account when making  the decision as to whether to proceed  with 
these door stays. I would  also expect  it to consider whether there  will be local planning 
issues that would prevent  the door stays from being  fitted.
Mr W has commented on what NHBCs glazing contractor said previously.  However,  NHBC 
had serious concerns about that contractor and is no longer using it so there is a question  
over the validity of that report, which I have to take into consideration.
Ultimately it isnt for me to say whether the repairs will work  that is a matter for NHBCs 
experts to ascertain.  In order for it to do that, it would initially  need to carry out a site visit to 
check whether the proposed solution would work  and there is, of course, still a possibility 
that they wont be suitable. Given the length  of time this has gone on for and the previous 
proposed resolutions,  I have spoken to NHBC about  possible next steps if that were to be 
the case.
NHBC has agreed that should  this door stay not be suitable in the opinion of NHBCs expert,  
not meet local planning regulations (if required) or be installed and ultimately  fail then the 
next step would be to install sliding  doors  or settle  the claim in cash  on that basis. And I think 
that would  be a reasonable next step in the circumstances  given how long this issue has 
now gone on.
In addition to this, NHBC has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs W £400 compensation for the 
delays it caused  and as I previously stated,  I believe this offer is fair. Neither party has 
commented on that aspect so I see no reason to award any additional compensation and 
NHBC should pay Mr and Mrs W the compensation it has offered if it hasnt already done so.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 October  2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8974194