K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about a motor breakdown  policy he has with Amtrust Europe  Limited.  He 
says it took too long for someone to come out to him after his car broke down.
background
There are often different  businesses involved when looking at complaints about insurance 
policies  which is also the case for this complaint. As only Amtrust can be named in this 
decision Ive referred  to other businesses throughout  as follows:
Broker L  the broker who sold the policy to Mr K.
Company C  they provided the motor breakdown service on behalf of Amtrust. so, 
anything Company C did is the responsibility of Amtrust.
On 14 January 2019, Mr K took out a motor  breakdown policy  through Broker L - the policy 
was underwritten by Amtrust.
Company C first received notification from Mr K that he needed assistance at 17.28 on the 
same day he took out the cover. But Company  C couldnt locate a policy for him, and it says 
it wasnt able to confirm  with Amtrust if a policy existed  as their offices  were  closed.
In order to get someone out to help Mr K, Company C offered what  it calls a Pay as You Go 
(PAYG) service. This is where the consumer allows a payment to be authorised  using their 
own funds. The payment is collected  later if it transpires  that there isnt a policy  in place.  
Mr K didnt want to go ahead with this as he said he didnt have the funds available to 
authorise the payment. 
Broker L contacted  Company C a few times  to let it know  that Mr K has breakdown  cover  in 
place. Company C said it couldnt take verbal confirmation and it would need  to see details 
of the policy  before it could instruct a vehicle recovery operator (VRO). After some  time, 
Broker L confirmed that it would pay for the recovery if it later turned  out that Mr K wasnt 
covered. Once  Company C took verbal  confirmation,  it then instructed  the VRO to go out to 
Mr K. 
Later, at 20.09, the VRO arrived  at the scene  and towed  Mr Ks vehicle back to his home. 
Mr K called Amtrust the following day to make a complaint. He says because Company  C 
couldnt locate  a policy for him, he was left in the cold for a long period of time. He also 
requested that someone come and collect the vehicle from his home address and take it to a 
garage  which Amtrust  agreed to do.
Mr K still wasnt happy with Amtrust and so he complained to this service.  He thinks  Amtrust  
are responsible for the delay  in a recovery operator  arriving to assist  him. He says he was 
waiting for five hours for someone to come  out to him and that this has had an impact  on his 
health as has a condition, which has worsened because  of the delays. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think  Amtrust  were to blame for the 
delay in the recovery operator arriving to help Mr K. And he thought  the £25 and towing 
Mr Ks vehicle  to a garage the following day was a fair way to settle  this complaint.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide on 
the matter.
Ref: DRN83773062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And taking everything  into consideration, 
Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I appreciate this decision will come  as a disappointment 
to Mr K, but Ill explain my reasons for my decision below. 
Firstly, Id like to express my empathy for Mr Ks situation. Based on what  hes told us, the 
consequences of having to wait for the VRO  has had an impact on his health. And so, I can 
understand why he is unhappy. But being  independent means, I must take a step back, 
consider what both parties have said. And I must look to see if Amtrust has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably when dealing with Mr Ks claim  and I think it has.
The information Ive seen from Company Cs systems shows it did take some time to resolve 
the issue about whether Mr K had a motor breakdown policy.  I can see that it spent time 
communicating with Broker L to get to the bottom  of the issue.  And eventually, Broker L said 
it would  be responsible for paying  the VRO  if it transpired that Mr K didnt have cover in 
place. This impacted on the amount of time Mr K had to wait for a VRO. So, I now need to 
decide if Amtrust was responsible for this delay. And I dont  think  it was.
Broker L told us that details of the policies  sold that day are sent to the underwriter 
overnight. So Amtrust  couldnt have known  about  Mr Ks policy at the time he contacted  
Company C for help.  I think  it was reasonable for Company C to make enquiries to check  
Mr K had a policy before  it agreed to send assistance to him  especially given that Mr K 
couldnt pre-authorise  a payment to use the PAYG service. Company C went outside  of its 
normal process in accepting verbal  confirmation from Broker L that the policy existed  it 
would normally need to see details of the policy first. So, I think Company C did what  it could 
to get help to Mr K.
Mr K says he was waiting for around  five hours  at the point  in which  the recovery operator 
arrived. Based on the information I have, which are records  and phone  calls from the time, 
Mr K first contacted Amtrust at 17.28 and the recovery operator arrived at 20.09.  This isnt 
five hours  as Mr K has suggested, but I agree  it is still a long time to be waiting in the cold. In 
total, it took around two hours  and 45 minutes to get a VRO  out to Mr K from when he first 
called for help. Unfortunately, there  can be delays  in breakdown  attendance and so I dont  
find this an unreasonable amount of time to have to wait.
Most of the delay  was caused when  Company  C were trying to locate a policy for Mr K and 
understand who would be liable to pay for the call out if he wasnt covered. Ive already 
explained why I dont think Amtrust are responsible for this part of the delay. So, Ill now look 
to see how long the VRO took to get to Mr K once Company C had instructed it to go out. 
Company C say it would  take around  90 minutes  for a VRO to arrive. The VRO recovered 
Mr Ks vehicle  in less than the estimated time.  So, I dont think  Amtrust are responsible  for 
any delays in the recovery operator  arriving. 
The following  day, Mr K called Company C to make a complaint. He requested  that 
Company C arrange  for his vehicle to be collected from his home and taken to his garage for 
repairs. Amtrust  agreed to do this for Mr K as a gesture of goodwill this isnt something  that 
is covered under the policy, and so would have been at an extra  cost to Amtrust. Amtrust 
has also paid Mr K £25 as a goodwill gesture, for any upset or inconvenience  it may have 
Ref: DRN83773063caused Mr K. Theres no doubt  that Mr K was upset and inconvenienced, but I dont think  
this was because  of something  Amtrust  did wrong. 
I appreciate that Mr K was waiting some  time for the VRO to arrive,  and that the delay wasnt 
down to any fault of his own. But for the reasons  Ive explained  above,  I think  Amtrust have 
acted fairly.  And so, it follows that Im not going to ask Amtrust to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8377306