K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Santander  UK plc (when it was trading as Abbey)  mis-sold  a
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs O in 2009  in connection with a
re-mortgage. I issued  a provisional decision on the complaint on 26 April 2019.  Ive 
summarised my provisional findings below:
The policy was sold over the phone, and Santander had provided a copy  of the script  
it says wouldve been used during the sale.
I couldnt be sure the Santander representative  stuck exactly to this script, but I 
thought it was likely she wouldve  followed  it fairly closely. Santanders record  of the 
call also indicated that Mr and Mrs O were asked  about any pre-existing medical 
conditions theyd  had in the previous twelve months.  The record shows  that they 
didnt mention any medical conditions to Santander.
So I thought  it was likely that Santander made  Mr and Mrs O aware that they 
wouldnt be covered  for medical  conditions that they already  knew about.
Mrs O had told us about  a medical  condition she had, but she said that she hadnt 
been treated for the condition since 2001.  Shed had to take some  time off work  for it 
then, around seven years  before  buying  the PPI, but hadnt  taken any medication for 
it or taken time off work  in connection with it since that time.
So I thought  that when Santander  pointed out the exclusion to Mrs O, she wouldve 
considered it unlikely that she would  need to take time off work in connection with her 
condition.
On balance, I thought Santander probably  made Mrs O aware  of the exclusion, but 
even if it didnt do that clearly enough, I didnt think this affected her decision  to buy 
the policy.
Santander made Mr and Mrs O aware  that the policy  was optional. 
Mr and Mrs O satisfied the eligibility  requirements of the policy  when taking it out.
I couldnt see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs O 
before they agreed to buy it. But they chose to take out the policy,  knowing they 
would have to pay something for it. The policy was competitively priced  and 
apparently affordable.  So I didnt think Mr and Mrs O would have made a different 
decision if better information about  the cost had been  provided.
Santander didnt  recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs O, so it didnt have to check 
their circumstances to make sure it was suitable for them. They  had to decide  that
 for themselves.
Even if Santander had recommended the policy, I didnt think it was unsuitable for 
them. The policy  wouldve  paid out in addition to Mr Os employer benefits and 
Ref: DRN82282492wouldve meant Mr and Mrs O couldve used those  benefits and their savings to pay 
for other expenses. And they were borrowing a large  amount for a long time, secured 
on their home, so failing  to make the repayments  promptly couldve been serious for 
them. So I thought Mr and Mrs O wouldve had some use for the policy, despite their 
existing arrangements.
In summary, I thought  Mr and Mrs O agreed  to take out the cover, knowing they 
didnt have to. And given  it provided broadly what I think  they expected  when they 
agreed to it, I didnt think they would have made a different  decision (and decided  
against taking  it out) if they had been  better  informed about its cost and terms.
Mr and Mrs O didnt make any further  representations in response to my provisional 
decision, and neither  did Santander.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Os case.
In the absence of any further representations  from the parties, I see no reason to depart 
from the position set out in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8228249