K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 on a 
credit card. Miss A says Capital One (Europe) Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss As case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the application form Miss A completed when she took out her credit  card by post. It 
included a section  called  Additional information  which asked if she wanted to take out PPI 
cover, Miss A had ticked yes, but there  was also the option  for her to tick no if she hadnt 
wanted the cover. And Miss A has made other selections on the application  form and signed  
it. So, I think Capital One made it clear  Miss A had a choice about taking the PPI and she 
chose to take it knowing she didnt have to  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.  
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Miss A so 
it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Miss A got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her.  
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  Miss A says 
she didnt have any sick pay benefits  from her employer, or any other means to make  her 
repayments. So I think it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss A. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss A because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss A about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Miss 
A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss A.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss A any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN88352672Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8835267