K820x#14Mr Ks solicitor has summarised his compliant about A J Bell Management  Ltd (AJB) in the 
following terms:
The SIPP provider failed  to heed  the guidance and implement  proper and thorough due 
diligence to protect customers.
background
Mr K says he was advised by an IFA to switch two personal pension to a SIPP  and to then 
invest the entirety of his SIPP  in shares  in a single small company.  The shares  he bought  
were listed  on the PLUS Market.  
Mr Ks complaint was looked at by an investigator.   It was his view that the complaint should 
not be upheld.   He said it wasnt clear what Mr Ks solicitor thought AJB had done wrong.  
He said the shares  Mr K bought were  listed on an HMRC recognised stock exchange.  He  
therefore thought there  were no issues with Mr K being allowed to hold the shares in his 
SIPP.  
Mr Ks solicitor  did not agree it said:
The PLUS Market was a market for high risk small  company shares.  AJB  should not 
have allowed Mr K to invest the entirety of his SIPP in a single high risk share.
By allowing Mr K to act in this way AJB failed to treat Mr K fairly.
AJB also breached COBS 2.1.1R   the clients best interests rule. 
AJB had nothing  further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
The submissions made by Mr Ks solicitor  have largely concentrated on the unsuitability  of 
the advice he received  from an IFA.  Whilst the adviser has been described as an IFA it has 
been suggested that the adviser was in fact an unregulated introducer.  No  details  of what  
passed between  the adviser/introducer and Mr K have been provided.  
However, AJB was under no obligation to ensure  that either the SIPP or the shares to be 
held within  the SIPP (which were not known at the time of the switch)  were suitable for Mr K.
AJB does have  obligations in respect of the due diligence it must  carry out on investments 
before allowing them to be held in a SIPP.  
Most of the attention and comment  around  the due diligence obligations  of SIPP  operators  
have concentrated  on issues arising  from holding non-standard investments.  However, the 
FCA has said due diligence obligations apply to all investments and not just non-standard 
investments. This was made  clear  in the FCAs Dear CEO letter  of July 2014  which  said:   
Although our thematic review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important to note 
that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments.
Ref: DRN86112502However, no specific guidance has been  issued  about appropriate due diligence on standard  
investments.  Investments listed on a recognised exchange  such as PLUS  Markets  are 
classified as standard investments.  Companies listed  on the PLUS Markets  had to abide by 
its rules.   These rules  covered things such as periodic reporting (interim and final),  the 
requirement for audited  accounts, the disclosure  of significant shareholdings and had a 
requirement for a regulated adviser to be appointed.  In my view the reassurance  provided 
by these requirements was such that it was reasonable  for AJB to have concluded that the 
shares Mr K purchased were an appropriate investment to be held in a SIPP.
For these reasons I am satisfied that in allowing the PLUS Markets  shares to be held in Mr 
Ks SIPP AJB did nothing wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8611250