K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2002. Mr J says Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen the credit card application form that Mr J completed to apply for the credit  card 
and PPI. He ticked  the box to say he wanted PPI and signed the form. I think  the 
paperwork made it clear that he didnt  have to have PPI to get the card.  So, I think  PPI was 
added because Mr J said he wanted  it, having been  told it was optional.  
I cant see that Bank of Scotland recommended  the PPI to Mr J. I say this because  this was 
a postal application and I think it unlikely that Bank  of Scotland was involved in assisting 
him to complete  the application form. 
So, Bank of Scotland didnt have to check that the PPI was right for Mr J. It did still have to 
provide him with enough clear information about  the PPI so that he could make an informed 
choice and decide whether he wanted to buy it.
I cant see that PPI was inappropriate for Mr J based  on what Ive seen, and what hes said 
of his circumstances at the time.  I say this because:
He was eligible  to take out PPI and at the time of sale. 
Mr J said he had a good level of sickness benefit. He said he wouldve got six 
months worth of pay at full pay and six months worth at half pay. The PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of his work  benefits, for up to 10 months for a successful 
unemployment claim and up to 12 months  for a successful accident or sickness  
claim. So, I still think the PPI couldve been  useful  to him in his particular 
circumstances. 
 
I cant see that Mr J was affected by any of the main exclusions  to or limits on the 
PPI cover, such as having unusual working  arrangements or suffering from a 
medical condition  of which he was already  aware.
Mr J didnt mention having  any savings  and said that he was vulnerable  because  he 
was taking out the card to help consolidate his borrowing.  But, I still think PPI 
couldve been useful  to him because  it wouldve guaranteed  that his credit card 
repayments would be met if he was off work  due to accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment. There was nothing on the credit  card application that Mr J 
completed that wouldve shown Barclays he was vulnerable  and was in financial 
difficulty. And on the basis that his credit  card application was successful, I think it 
Ref: DRN86655292likely that Mr Js financial position was considered  secure enough  to provide him 
with credit.  So, I cant see that the PPI was unaffordable.  
Its possible  the information Bank of Scotland gave  Mr J about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Bank of Scotland  doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI 
policy to Mr J. But Bank of Scotland has decided to pay back  some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr J. I cant see that it had to do this. As Bank of Scotland has calculated the 
amount payable in the same way as it wouldve done had it been obliged  to pay back  
Mr J some compensation, I think its response  is a fair and reasonable one in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland does not have  to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr J.
Bank of Scotland has agreed to pay Mr J any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont award  
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8665529