K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which commenced in 
2004. Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), Halifax at the time, mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
background
The policy was part of a packaged protection policy called a Total  Mortgage  Protection
Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three  different elements  a PPI policy,  life cover 
and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added  or taken out as 
the consumer  wishes.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy   called Mortgage Repayment
Cover - this covered accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment. This complaint does 
not include the life or critical illness elements.
Mrs C took out life cover only.  She did not take out any form of PPI. Mr C took out a PPI 
policy - to cover him for accident  and sickness - and life cover. So Ive looked at the accident 
and sickness cover taken out by Mr C only. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say that the PPI was taken out in 1995 when they first applied  for the 
mortgage. BoS says the PPI was sold in 2003, when Mr and Mrs C were applying  for some 
additional credit, and commenced in early  2004.  And its provided some  screen  shots to 
show that the cover went live in 2004.  So based  on this evidence  I think its likely the PPI 
was taken out in 2003.  
Mr and Mrs C say that the PPI was added without their knowledge. But theyve also said 
they were told they had to take out the policy. I realise that this sale took place a long time 
ago  about 16 years ago - but these  differences make it difficult to rely on what  Mr and 
Mrs C have said alone to conclude that something untoward happened. And I havent  seen 
any evidence to support  what theyve said.
Due to the time that has passed  BoS no longer has the documentation from the time of sale.  
But this isnt surprising  considering how long ago this was. But BoS says that the optional 
nature of the policy wouldve been explained to Mr and Mrs C in good time before the sale of 
the PPI was concluded. Ive also considered  what  weve already seen about how BoS were  
selling these types of polices at the time, and in the cases weve  seen we think the PPI was 
presented as optional and BoS wouldve only added it with the applicants  consent. 
Ref: DRN89340942The PPI was taken  out in Mr Cs name only, and unemployment cover wasnt  included. This 
suggests its likely a discussion took place where Mr and Mrs C considered the cover on 
offer and made  a choice about  it - after considering what cover they wanted and who they 
wanted to cover. So on the balance of probabilities, and without any evidence to support  
what Mr and Mrs C have said, I think its more likely than not that BoS made it clear the PPI 
was optional and Mr and Mrs C chose  to take it out  although I can understand if they cant  
remember this now.  
Mr and Mrs C also say they were  forced  into taking  out the policy. This seems  like an 
allegation of pressure to me. But without any other details or evidence  to support this, I cant  
fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint on this point. 
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check  that the policy  was right for 
Mr C (as the insured  party)  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, I 
think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover and they seem  to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr and Mrs C have said that Mr C had some  sick pay from his employer which  he couldve 
used to cover the repayments had he been too unwell to work. But upon a successful claim 
the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 24 months in addition to his sick pay. So these funds 
wouldve been free to use for other expenses.  And as the mortgage is likely to have been 
their most significant financial commitment, secured against their home, the PPI provided 
them with some additional security. So I still think the policy was suitable  for them.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything Mr 
and Mrs C paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs C back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr and Mrs C and so I dont think 
it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8934094