K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about the service  and information Mr S received from Hastings Insurance
Services Limited (Hastings) when  he made  an amendment to his motor insurance policy.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2020. Neither Mr S nor Hastings 
provided any further information.
background
On 17 January 2019 Mr S called Hastings to make a change to his policy.  He was buying  a
second vehicle  that he wanted  to add to his policy and wanted to update  his wifes driving
licence details as she had recently  passed  her test and now had a full licence.
Mr S wanted  to keep  his monthly payments the same  as they were before the changes were
made so agreed  to pay the sum of £574.41 to make the amendments in one payment.
On 1 February 2019 Mr S called Hastings again  as he had received a letter  saying his policy
had been cancelled. This was investigated and it was then explained that the correct
amendments were  not made on the 17 January 2019 and that this was the reason his policy
was cancelled.
During this call Mr S explained he had previously agreed a price for the insurance. The
Hastings representative  explained that £472.09 had been refunded from the additional
amount he paid on that day and that £315.32  was now due to make the amendments.  Mr S
confirmed this was the only amount due after the refund and was happy  to make the
payment. The Hastings representative  also reduced this payment by £20 as Mr S had
previously paid an amendment fee.
Following the call on 1 February 2019  Mr S received a letter  explaining a payment had been
missed and that his next direct debit of £151.84  would be taken in the next few days. As his
usual direct debit amount  was around £60 Mr S called Hastings again  to resolve the
situation.
Over the 5 and 6 of February  2019 several  conversations were  had where the circumstances
surrounding Mr Ss policy  amendments were discussed. Hastings agreed the service Mr S
had received wasnt what he should have  expected.  But that his premium was correct and
reflected the cost of his insurance.
To resolve  the situation  Hastings gave  Mr S two options:
1. cancel his insurance.  Hastings  would  then pay him £60 compensation and remove
the cancellation fee. Although this would affect his no claims discount entitlement.
2. compensate Mr S £80 that would be spread over his remaining four monthly direct
debits. Reducing his payments to £131.84
The Hastings representative who gave  Mr S these options explained  he could take his
complaint further  through Hastings complaints  process but that this may have resulted in a
less favourable outcome for him.
Mr S asked Hastings for a better  outcome considering none of the issues  that had occurred
were his fault, but Hasting refused. He therefore accepted  the reduced direct  debit option
Ref: DRN82607712and explained  he would  take his complaint  to the financial  ombudsman  service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. I 
said:
I have listened  to all the available call recordings related to this complaint.
Its clear that on the 17 January 2019 Mr S called Hastings and gave accurate information
about the amendments he wanted to make to his policy and was quoted a figure for the
changes that he agreed to.
It is therefore not surprising that Mr S was upset  to find his insurance had been cancelled
and that he and his wife had been driving  without any insurance being  in place. As the
reason Mr Ss policy was cancelled was due to Hastings error, I would have expected
Hastings to have  tried calling him or have  written to him giving  him some notice that things
werent correctly recorded on his policy  before cancelling it.
Having listened  to the second set of calls when Mr S agreed again  to make a payment to
continue with his insurance, I think its clear  that he was persuaded by the Hastings
representative that the policy offered good value. Having received a refund from his last
payment on 17 January  2019 he would only have to pay £295.32. It was very clear  from this
call that this would be the only additional  amount  Mr S was expected to pay.
It is therefore not surprising that Mr S was again upset and disappointed to see that his
monthly payments  had increased by over 100% in addition to the lump sum he had paid to
cover the amendments.
I understand that the amount Mr S was asked to pay was an accurate reflection of the cost
of his insurance but had Hastings not made  so many errors when communicating with him it
could have avoided  the stress and inconvenience  of Mr Ss motor  insurance being cancelled.
It could also have avoided  the many phone  calls Mr S had with Hastings to put things right.
In which  he was faced  with more incorrect and misleading information.
I currently do not agree that the offer Hastings  made  Mr S is fair. I think Hastings should pay
Mr S an additional £200  compensation to reflect  the overall experience  he encountered,
which included having his policy cancelled.
As neither Mr S nor Hastings provided  any further information in response  to my provisional 
decision I still think the complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to pay Mr S
a further £200 compensation  for the trouble and upset it has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Ref: DRN82607713Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8260771