K822xComplaint
Mrs B, represented by Mr B, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited 
(VWFS) applied unfair refurbishment charges at the end of her hire agreement. She also 
complains that the car was collected on the day agreed.
Background 
Mrs B entered into a hire agreement in June 2015  to lease a new vehicle.  She says she paid 
the hire agreement off early and the vehicle  was due to be collected on 6 March 2019  but 
this didnt happen. She says she had acquired  another vehicle and had wanted to transfer 
the insurance. Mrs B says that she had to contact VWFS a few times before another 
collection was arranged  for 8 April. 
Mrs B says that the collecting  agent could see no issues with the vehicle apart form those 
she highlighted  being a worn seat which she had been told by the garage  was wear and 
tear and so not under  warranty. She says that VWFS then applied charges for a number of 
small dents  and scratches and had said the rear bumper needed to be replaced  because it 
was cracked. Mrs B says the bumper wasnt cracked but that the protective strip was 
cracked and this could  be peeled  off.
VWFS says that the charges applied to Mrs Bs account were due to damage that fell 
outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines. It says that a subsequent inspection was carried  
out which showed that had the initial inspection been carried  out in better  lighting conditions  
further charges  would have been applied. It apologised for the failed collection in its final 
response issued  on 2 May 2019  and offered a goodwill gesture of £55 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
During the investigation of this complaint, VWFS offered to waive the £138 charge for the 
door saying  that although there  was evidence of scratches the dent wasnt  clearly shown. 
Our investigator thought the offer made by VWFS  to remove  the charge applied for the 
damage to the door and pay £55 for the failed collection was reasonable. She thought the 
other charges had been fairly applied. 
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators view. Mr B said that the seat material was poor quality 
which was why it had worn so quickly and that this should be considered normal wear  and 
tear. He said it was only the one seat that was regularly used. In regard to the rear bumper 
he said that there is a sticker protection on it which can be peeled off and if this happened it 
would been seen that the bumper isnt damaged. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs B entered into a hire agreement and in doing  so agreed to its terms. The terms set out 
that the vehicle must be kept in good  repair and that the hirer is responsible for any damage 
or deterioration that isnt considered fair wear  and tear. 
When assessing what is considered fair wear and tear, companies and our service  refer to 
the industry fair wear and tear standards for drivers of leased and financed cars published by 
Ref: DRN83220272the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association  (BVRLA). I have considered the damage  
reported on Mrs Bs vehicle against these  guidelines.
Mrs Bs vehicle  was initially due to be collected  in March however  this didnt happen. This 
would have been an inconvenience for Mrs B and I note her comments about  having another  
vehicle ready to be used at the time. The collection date was rearranged but Mrs B has 
explained that she had to make calls to sort this. VWFS offered  to pay Mrs B £55 because of 
the inconvenience this issue caused. 
I agree  that compensation is required in this case and think that the £55 offered is 
reasonable. I say this because the collection was rearranged but I acknowledge that this 
took time and resulted in a delay.
Following the vehicle being collected, an inspection was carried out. This is usual practice.  
The report  listed chargeable damage to the front bumper, bonnet, wing,  rear bumper, door 
and seat base cover. The total charges were just over £1,000. During this investigation, 
VWFS said that the charge for damage  to the door will be waived. I have considered 
whether the remaining charges have been fairly  applied.
Having looked  at the photographs included in the inspection  report,  the crack on the front 
bumper is clearly visible. I note the comments about when this damage  happened but Mrs B 
was responsible for the vehicle until the collection and as the damage is clearly  visible  and 
falls outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines I find it reasonable that his charge has been 
applied.
The damage to the bonnet is also shown in the photographs and I think  it reasonable to 
accept this is outside of the wear and tear guidelines  and so I accept this charge has been  
fairly applied. Likewise I can see the damage  to the wing and think this charge is reasonable. 
The seat cover is shown to be ripped with a hole present. I note Mr Bs comments that the 
material was of poor quality and that this was wear and tear. However, the hole is clearly  
present and the guidelines set out that 'all interior upholstery seat, fascia/dashboard, 
headlining and trim must be clean and odourless with no burns, scratches,  rip, tears  or 
staining'. Given this I find it reasonable that this charge has been applied.
Mr B says that the damage to the rear bumper  is just damage to the protective strip and not 
the bumper itself. The sales invoice provided doesnt mention  the protective strip.  The 
photographs show cracks to the bumper and without further evidence to show this is only to 
the protective  strip and not the bumper itself I do not find I can say this charge has been 
applied unfairly.
Overall, while  I understand this will be a disappointment to Mrs B, I do not find that VWFS  is 
required to remove any of the remaining charges.
Ref: DRN83220273My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited should, as it has 
offered, remove the charge for the damage  to the door (this reduces the charges from 
£1,009.29 to £871.29) and pay £55 for the failed  collection. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8322027