K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about credit payment protection insurance (PPI)  taken out in 2004. Mrs C 
says Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2004 Mrs C took out PPI when she applied for a Visa and Mastercard  credit  card account. 
According to Barclays records,  Mrs C applied  for the cards and PPI in a branch meeting. 
Mrs C disputes this  I will come  back to this later on. 
The policy provided  protection for Mrs Cs card payments in the event she couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out a benefit of 10% 
of the outstanding card balance for up to 12 months  per claim and its basic cost was 70 
pence for every £100 Mrs C owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs C was employed. Shes said different things at different  times 
about her sick pay and other means  she couldve used to make  her repayments  not 
perhaps surprising  given how long-ago things happened. But most recently shes  said she 
wouldve received  at least six months  full sick pay and she had a few thousand  pounds  in 
savings. She said she was in good  health at the time.
Barclays records show the account  ended in 2004.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
Mrs C chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs C disagrees,  the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mrs C was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint.  My reasons  are set out below.
did Mrs C have a choice about PPI?  
did she agree to take it out?
Barclays has provided a copy of Mrs Cs credit card application, which  it says is typical of a 
branch application. The majority of the application  is legible   albeit the very top part of the 
application is missing.  But Barclays cant now say which branch the application was taken 
out in.
Ref: DRN81977542Looking at the application I can see there is a separate section about PPI with two equally 
prominent boxes   Yes  and No  a customer was asked to choose from to either take out 
PPI or to decline it. In this case there  is a tick in the Yes box.
Mrs C says that the tick in the box for PPI isnt hers  it must have been put there  by 
someone at Barclays. Mrs C also says that Barclays isnt right about what happened   she 
says there  wasnt a meeting in a branch, she dropped off her application  at a branch.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs C has said.  And having done  so, Im not 
persuaded I can safely conclude that Mrs C didnt  agree to take out PPI. I say this for the 
following reasons:
Im mindful that Mrs C is remembering something which happened over 20 years ago  
and something which  in my view would not be considered a significant or particularly  
memorable event;
looking at the various  ticks in the boxes on Mrs Cs application, despite what Mrs C says 
about the tick in the PPI box being the perfect  tick, in my view they are not all uniform  
such that the one in the PPI box stands  out as being significantly different from the 
others; and
Mrs Cs account was closed more than 15 years ago  so despite Barclays  now not 
having full information  about what happened, its possible that Mrs C did take out her 
credit card during  a meeting as Barclays says. Its therefore also possible that a Barclays 
adviser completed some  of the application and for example ticked  the PPI box for Mrs C.
But that doesnt mean Mrs C didnt consent to take it out  she signed the overall  
application. And regardless of whether this was a sale by branch meeting or not, the PPI 
premiums wouldve appeared on Mrs Cs credit card statements and wouldve done so 
for several  years. So, if she didnt recognise  what they were or hadnt  agreed to PPI, I 
mightve expected  her to query things with Barclays.
So overall and after careful consideration of the evidence provided by both parties, I think 
more likely than not Mrs C chose  and agree to take out PPI  Ive not seen enough to 
persuade me otherwise.
the advice
Because Barclays says this was a sale during a branch meeting, it also says it 
recommended the PPI to Mrs C. And while as Ive said above Mrs C disputes this is what  
happened, because it doesnt disadvantage  Mrs C in any way  if anything its more  
favourable to her  Im happy  to consider this was an advised  sale. This means Barclays had 
to check that the PPI was right for Mrs C  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, she was eligible for the cover; she wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI cover  such as those  for existing medical  conditions  or unusual  
employment circumstances; and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.
Mrs C has latterly said that she was entitled to some sick pay and savings, so she was in a 
position to secure  her payments.  But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mrs Cs sick 
pay and for longer if necessary   up to 12 months per claim. It also had the potential to clear 
the outstanding balance  in full. So, I think Mrs C did still have a need  for cover and it 
wouldve helped her out at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. I 
therefore dont  think it was wrong  for Barclays to have recommended  it.
Ref: DRN81977543the information   
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information Barclays  gave Mrs 
C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been   this includes the cost and the 
information about the significant exclusions and limitations. But as I found above,  I think Mrs 
C likely  chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And as I said 
above it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also looks 
like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs C 
off taking out the cover. 
 
This means  I dont  think Mrs C has lost out as a result  of having PPI, so Barclays 
doesnt have to pay back to Mrs C what she paid for PPI.
I want to assure Mrs C that I have thought about  everything shes said both before and after 
the adjudicator  issued  their assessment. But for the reasons Ive set out above, these points 
dont change my decision  - I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8197754