K820x#14complaint
Ms J feels  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (trading as First Direct)  has treated her unfairly in relation 
to a transaction with a secondary ticketing platform.
background
Ms J says she was involved in a transaction process using her HSBC  debit  card to purchase 
tickets through  the ticketing platform for a concert. She says that as she progressed through  
the purchasing  process, she was pressured and hurried throughout, and she thought the 
tickets would cost around £205 in total. She says that once she completed  the transaction,  
she realised shed been charged £1048.35.
Ms J contacted HSBC  promptly  to try and stop the transaction. HSBC  said that it was 
satisfied that shed completed  the transaction and that it thought  there wasnt  a reasonable 
prospect of success in raising a chargeback. So it didnt do this. Ms J complained but HSBC  
said it hadnt done anything wrong.
Ms J, unhappy with HSBCs position,  complained here. The investigator thought the position 
taken by HSBC  regarding the chargeback was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so 
HSBC didnt have  to do anymore. Ms J doesnt agree. So this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The ticketing platform isnt regulated by this service. And I appreciated Ms J is invested  in 
this whole dispute. But I must emphasise  that this decision can only consider the merits of 
Ms J complaint about HSBC. And HSBC is only responsible for what  it does do or should 
do. It isnt responsible for the actions or inactions of other, separate entities.
Ms J and HSBC do not agree as to what has happened in this complaint particularly about 
the information given by the platform regarding the amount to pay for the tickets. So I have 
to consider all the evidence  available  and decide,  based on the balance of probabilities.  In 
other words what I think is more likely to be the case.
The chargeback process  is administered by the card provider (which isnt HSBC)  and 
provides a process for financial  services  companies to recover funds for its account holders 
in certain situations.  I should stress  that this process  is not a right for consumers to go 
through. 
This service considers it to be good  practice  for firms such as HSBC  to consider the 
particular circumstances  (such as Ms Js) when considering whether or not to go through  the 
chargeback process-  but this is at their discretion based on the criteria of the chargeback  
scheme. And if it fairly  decides there is no realistic prospect  of success  of a chargeback then 
it is entitled to decide  to not go through the process  of a chargeback. And in the event  a 
complaint about  this comes to this service  then we will consider whether HSBC  used its 
discretion fairly within those parameters.
In this case HSBC considered what happened in Ms Js case. In its letter of October 2017 it 
noted that there were a variety  of options  for it, but these were dependent on what  happened 
Ref: DRN87958322with the tickets Ms J purchased. If the tickets werent delivered or were delivered  but Ms J 
was denied entry to the concert, then there would be grounds for a raising a chargeback. It 
restated that sorting the dispute out with the ticketing platform  was an option, but HSBC also 
set out when Ms J would need to come  back to HSBC with this dispute if she were  
unsuccessful with the platform.
In November 2017 HSBC wrote  to Ms J again  stating  that it was pleased Ms J had received 
a partial refund from the platform.  But that its position remained unchanged.  Later  Ms J 
received the remaining tickets  and attended the concert.
HSBC didnt consider  there to be a realistic  prospect of success  in raising a chargeback 
when Ms J asked it to. So the test here is not whether the secondary ticketing platform  has 
done anything  wrong-after  all this complaint is about  HSBC. But rather,  whether HSBC  
exercised its discretion  here fairly and reasonably within the scheme rules, and if not, what 
should the remedy be (if any).
I have considered the secondary ticketing platform sales process. It is in essence:
The buyer (Ms J in this instance) selects the event and date they want  the tickets for. 
Then they select how many tickets  and which tickets they wish to get. 
Once the buyer has selected the number of tickets, the position of the tickets  at the 
event and price per ticket, the buyer then has to provide personal information  to 
proceed. At this stage  the number of tickets  selected  and price  are shown. But it 
includes a note to say that some  further costs  arent included. That is tax, booking  
fee and delivery  fee.
The buyer (Ms J in this case) then has to choose the mode  of delivery  of the tickets 
and payment method. The platform then asks for the payment details. Once these 
details are input, the next page is the final page  where the final price  is displayed at 
the centre of the screen in bold. The buyer  has to scroll  down  beyond  this to 
complete the purchase.
Ms J has accepted that she completed  the transaction but says she didnt agree to the 
amount she was charged. Hence, as she argues  on the call with our investigator,  she feels 
she didnt authorise  the transaction. 
But based  on what she has said and the evidence available, Im satisfied she entered the 
details of her debit card with a view to purchasing the tickets.  I appreciate  she says she 
would not buy the tickets  at the price  she paid. 
Ive considered the process Ms J would have gone  through. On balance Im satisfied that 
when Ms J was putting in her payment details the full price was shown. I appreciate  at the 
start of the process the full price isnt shown.  But when putting in the payment  details  the 
final price is shown and it is also shown on the final page when the buyer  (Ms J here)  
completes the transaction.  Thus, on balance,  Im satisfied that Ms J did consent  to the 
transaction and she did authorise it.
I should add that in Ms Js detailed and substantial submissions she says I saw 4 x £205 
but goes on to say she didnt realise the total cost of the tickets. I also note she has 
submitted picture  grabs of going through the process of buying  such  tickets  (albeit  from 
some time after when she actually purchased them). In these picture  grabs she does not 
show the final pages of the process for, as she says, fear of making further transactions.  
This is understandable. However it is the final pages  of the process which are key, and Im 
Ref: DRN87958323satisfied from our consideration of the process that the total cost was shown when she made 
the transaction.
As a consequence of this it follows that HSBC  was entitled to charge that transaction to Ms 
Js account with it. And I see no persuasive  reason for it to refund this transaction  as I dont 
think HSBC has done anything wrong in applying the transaction to Ms Js account.
Similarly, when Ms J took the issue to HSBC, I can see it considered the matter and 
specifically the issue of the chargeback process.  It has described how it has considered the 
sales process Ms J went through and noted that Ms J got the tickets and gained  entry  to the 
concert.
Our approach is that a card issue such as HSBC should attempt a chargeback  where there 
is a realistic prospect  of success  in doing  so. But it does have that discretion not to do a 
chargeback if it feels there  isnt a realistic prospect of success  considering  the scheme rules. 
HSBC made  the point  to Ms J that shed need to show  some evidence to show  that the price 
she agreed at the moment  of making  the transaction was different to what the ticketing 
platform charged to her HSBC account-in essence  that something had gone wrong. But Ms J 
didnt provide such evidence.
I appreciate that Ms J has pointed to media commentary about the ticketing platform.  And 
Im aware that financial services companies have attempted chargebacks on similar matters 
with mixed results. And the chargeback  process is exactly that-a  process of putting  the 
dispute through the card provider to the merchant  on the other side of the transaction.  
Merchants may accept the chargeback  and refund  monies for numerous reasons including  
commercial reasons or pragmatism.  But the decision  of the merchant is not the responsibility 
of the card issuer or the account holding bank (HSBC in this case). So although other 
chargebacks may have  been successful elsewhere, the nub of this complaint  about  HSBC is 
whether HSBCs use of its discretion not to attempt  a chargeback  in Ms Js case  was 
reasonable or not. 
Considering what  HSBC knew and did in this matter it is my decision that HSBC  acted 
reasonably in not attempting a chargeback in the circumstances. And I can see that Ms J did 
attend the event  the tickets were purchased for. And I dont think  it did anything wrong in 
debiting Ms Js account of the transaction amount.
Ms J also raised the issue of what she considered  was the risk of the platform taking further  
monies from her account without permission. But HSBC explained she didnt have a 
continuous payment  authority with the platform. So it didnt have anything  to cancel.
Ms J also complained about the pressure of the sales process of the platform. As Ive said 
HSBC is only responsible for its actions and that means only was the transaction  properly 
paid from its end and how it went about the chargeback
In short,  Ive considered everything that Ms J has said. I appreciate  how Ms J feels about the 
whole situation.  And I remind  Ms J that HSBC is only responsible  for how it acts and not for 
other parties. All in all I dont think it fair for HSBC  to do anything  more. As a consequence  
this complaint is unsuccessful.
Ref: DRN87958324My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
about HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms J to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  27 April 2020.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8795832