K821x#15complaint
Mr D says FCL Consumer Finance Ltd, trading as Smart-Pig.com (FCL),  irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr D says he wants the interest and charges repaid to him and any negative 
information about the borrowing to be removed from his credit  file.
background
This complaint is about seven short-term loans  FCL provided to Mr D between 
October 2014 and January 2016. Mr Ds borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidAmount Repayment
1 11/10/2014 05/11/2014 £250.00 £308.45
2 10/12/2014 05/01/2015 £350.00 £438.20
3 09/01/2015 27/01/2015 £350.00 £400.40
4 30/01/2015 02/04/2015 £350.00 £523.00
5 14/07/2015 15/11/2015 £350.00 £525.00
6 10/11/2015 11/01/2016 £350.00 £525.00
7 13/01/2016 Outstanding £350.00 N/A
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ds complaint and thought  the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. She thought  that by loan four Mr D was showing signs 
of financial difficulty and later, his overall  pattern of borrowing suggested he had become 
persistently reliant  on the lending. 
FCL disagreed.
As the complaint remains unresolved, its been  passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
FCL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr D could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that FCL should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN88501692the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that FCL was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr D didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to three shouldnt be 
upheld. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision  about this lending.  But the loans were part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr D had with FCL. So, it is something  I will take into account  when considering  
the other loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D was a student at the time of the borrowing and received an income  via a maintenance 
loan and grant. For all of the loans Mr D was able to confirm to FCL the money  he would be 
receiving.
FCL has told us it carried out a credit check before each of the loans and this would show if 
Mr D had any other credit commitments. But FCL hasnt shown me that it carried out any 
other income  or expenditure checks other  than the credit checks.  So, it wasnt able to 
confirm whether Mr D could reasonably afford  the borrowing.
And like Ive said above, whilst at the beginning of a borrowing relationship less thorough 
checks might be proportionate, as more borrowing  is taken I would expect to see FCL trying 
to build up a picture  of Mr Ds financial circumstances. And, as our adjudicator explained, I 
think a more thorough  proportionate check for loan four have been reasonable.
I say this because  it looks  like Mr D was struggling with his finances. I note that Mr D had 
repaid two of his loans early. FCL has suggested this was good money management  by 
Mr D  and I appreciate it may have saved him interest charges but it could have equally 
been a sign that Mr Ds financial situation wasnt under  control. 
Ref: DRN88501693Mr D was also re-borrowing within days of earlier borrowing being repaid  loan three was 
taken four days after loan two was repaid and loan four was taken three days  after loan 
three was repaid. I would  ask why someone was repaying a loan early just to replace it with 
further borrowing. 
And I also note that at loan four Mr D had borrowed twice  in that month   January 2015  
and for the same  amount  of £350. So, the amount borrowed wasnt reducing the rate at 
which it was being  taken was increasing.  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of FCLs lending history with Mr D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which FCL should reasonably have  seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so FCL should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
I appreciate there was a three-month gap between loans four and five, but I dont agree this 
was a sufficient  enough  break for loan five to be the start of a new lending chain, bearing in 
mind the length  of time Mr D had been  borrowing from FCL.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that the point at which it would  
have been reasonable  for FCL to have seen that further borrowing was unsustainable was 
reached by loan six. I say this because:
At this point FCL ought to have realised Mr D was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr D had taken out six loans within 11 months.  So FCL ought to have  
realised it was more likely  than not Mr D was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ds first loan was for £250 and loan six was for £350.   At this point FCL ought  to 
have known that Mr D was not likely  borrowing to meet  a temporary  shortfall in his 
income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed FCL.  Loan seven was 
taken out 14 months after Mr Ds first. And it was for a larger amount. Mr D had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to FCL over an extended period.
I think that Mr D lost out because FCL continued  to provide borrowing from loan six onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans which Mr D borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ds ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans four and onwards and 
FCL should put things right.
putting things right  what FCL needs to do 
Ref: DRN88501694If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Ds loan seven has been transferred to a third party 
FCL should buy the loan back if it can. If FCL cant buy the loan back,  then it needs  to work 
with the third party to make sure the following  is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards  interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr D which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr D as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. 
If this results  in Mr D having made overpayments then FCL should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
FCL should then refund  the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should  be paid to Mr D. However, if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then FCL should try to agree an affordable  repayment  plan with 
Mr D. 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation to loans  
four and five. 
The number of loans  taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So, all entries  about  loans six and seven should be removed 
from Mr Ds credit file. FCL does not have to remove loan seven from Mr Ds credit  
file until it has been repaid, but any adverse information recorded  about this loan 
should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires FCL to take off tax from this interest. FCL must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr D still has an outstanding balance due, then FCL should try and 
work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr D in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind FCL of its obligation to treat Mr D fairly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ds complaint. FCL Consumer 
Finance Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Ref: DRN88501695Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8850169