K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1997. The policy covered Mr W only. Mr W and Miss S say The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W and Miss Ss case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Co-op had to make it clear  to Mr W and Miss S that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr W and Miss S say they thought the PPI was part of the mortgage.
Co-op has sent us a copy of Mr W and Miss Ss application  form for the mortgage.  This 
included a section  on PPI, with yes and no boxes to be ticked  to show whether they 
wanted to take it out. And the yes box has been ticked.
Co-op has also sent us a copy  of a separate PPI application form, showing the level of cover 
and benefit selected and signed by Mr W.
Mr W has said that he didnt fill out the forms and that they were  done by the Co-op advisor.  
But I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that that PPI section on the mortgage 
application form and the separate PPI application form were completed  against Mr W and 
Miss Ss wishes. And, if Mr W and Miss S didnt  agree to what was said on the forms, they 
shouldnt have signed them.
So, based  on the evidence I have, I think Co-op  did make it clear  to Mr W and Miss S that 
they had a choice about the PPI. And that Mr W and Miss S chose to take it, knowing they 
didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Co-op  gave  Mr W and Miss S personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to them. This means  Co-op didnt have to check if 
the PPI was right for Mr W and Miss S. But it did have to make  sure they got the information  
they needed to decide if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Co-op gave  Mr W and Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like Mr W was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  The policy  
couldve paid out for longer than Mr W and Miss S have told us Mr W wouldve been entitled  
to sick pay. And it wouldve meant Mr W and Miss S didnt  need to rely on their savings to 
make the mortgage  payments if Mr W wasnt working. So the PPI would  have been  useful  
for them if something went wrong.
A mortgage is also a serious financial commitment, and Mr W and Miss Ss property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
Ref: DRN85615742protection the policy offered appealing. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont  think  
better information about the PPI would  have put Mr W and Miss S off taking it out.
Which means Co-op doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Miss S.
But Co-op will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Miss S because:
Co-op got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W and Miss S about that. Because Co-op  didnt tell 
Mr W and Miss S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Co-op has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Co-op has to pay back to Mr W and Miss S any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Co-op  should  also pay back  to Mr W and Miss S any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Co-op should pay back to Mr W and Miss S the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Co-op should also 
pay Mr W and Miss S 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W and Miss S can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Co-operative Bank Plc doesnt have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W and Miss S.
But The Co-operative Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr W and Miss S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8561574