K820x#14complaint
Miss M and Mr J complain about  how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled and settled a claim 
they made under their home insurance policy for storm  damage  to their gable  end wall. 
background
Miss M and Mr J have a buildings and contents insurance policy with AXA. The policy that is 
relevant to this complaint commenced on 4 December 2018, although Miss M and Mr J held 
insurance before that date. 
On 14 March 2019 Miss M and Mr J said the gable end wall of their house collapsed  
following a storm. They say this caused bricks to fall onto the flat roof of their side extension 
and public footpath, which led to the fire brigade closing the path in the interests  of safety  
while the debris was removed.  
Miss M and Mr J made  a claim under  their insurance policy  for damage caused by their 
gable end wall collapsing.  AXA instructed a loss adjuster, who Ill refer to as C in this 
decision, to inspect the damage sustained to Miss M and Mr Js property.
After C attended  Miss M and Mr Js property  it noted  there were no wall ties in place in the 
brickwork of the gable end. C stated if the wall had been tied in it wouldnt have come down. 
So, it felt the damage  had been caused  by a construction fault and poor workmanship. AXA 
said this wasnt covered by Miss M and Mr Js policy and declined  their gable end wall 
damage claim on this basis. But it agreed  to cover resultant damage to their flat roof 
extension and property  interior  under  the accidental damage section of their policy.
Miss M and Mr J instructed  a construction company, who Ill refer to as T, to remove bricks 
that had fallen from their gable end wall. T thought the force of the wind and storm had 
caused the gable to fall. It stated the force would have caused a rocking action on the outer 
skin. And it said the lack of adequate  wall ties added to the instability of the outer skin.  
Miss M and Mr J shared  Ts view about  the cause of damage  with AXA. They  thought Ts 
opinion supported their belief that their gable  end wall had been damaged  by a storm, which 
meant it should be covered by their policy.  But AXA maintained  its position  that the gable 
end wall had been damaged due to poor workmanship, which  had been caused  by a lack of 
wall ties. And it declined  to settle  Miss M and Mr Js claim because it said this was excluded  
under the terms  of their policy. 
Miss M and Mr J complained to AXA about its decision to decline their claim. They  also 
complained about delays  theyd experienced and the manner in which  their claim had been  
handled and progressed. But AXA didnt uphold their complaint about the way it had settled 
their claim. It did, however, uphold their complaint about the service theyd experienced. And 
it paid them £100 in recognition of the trouble and upset theyd been caused.
Miss M and Mr J werent  happy with the way in which AXA had dealt with their complaint so 
they referred it to our service. Our investigator looked into what  had happened but didnt 
uphold Miss M and Mr Js complaint. They didnt think their gable end wall had been 
damaged by a storm. Instead, they thought AXA had shown the damage had been due to a 
construction fault which had been brought to light by weather conditions. But Miss M and Mr 
J disagreed and asked for their complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.   
Ref: DRN80854742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss M and Mr J have gone  to some trouble to provide  our service with some very 
detailed submissions and feel very strongly  that their claim should be paid. I want  to assure 
them that Ive read everything theyve sent us. I hope they will understand if I dont address 
every comment theyve  made in this decision.  I intend to concentrate on what  I consider is 
key to the complaint  namely  whether AXA acted  reasonably in declining  this claim. And Ill 
explain why I think it has.
Theres no dispute that there was gable  end wall damage to Miss M and Mr Js property. 
However, theres a disagreement between Miss M and Mr J and AXA about the cause  of the 
damage and the correct  outcome of this claim.
Miss M and Mr Js policy provides cover  for damage  caused  by a range  of perils that might 
happen. These are specific  one-off events and include storm, for example. In order  for a 
claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show  that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy.
AXA considered whether  or not a storm had caused  the damage. I think that this was 
reasonable because Miss M and Mr J told it they thought  the gable end wall damage  had 
been caused by a storm. They were  clear that the storm in question  had occurred on 14 
March 2019 and so AXA consulted weather records to verify the prevailing weather 
conditions that day.  
When considering  a claim for damage caused by a storm I need to consider  three  main  
questions:
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage  consistent with what we would  normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In weighing  up the first question  Ive looked to see if Miss M and Mr Js policy  defines  storm. 
I can see their policy defines a storm as a period of violent weather defined  as; wind speeds 
with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, equivalent  to storm force  10 on the internationally 
recognised Beaufort  Scale),  or torrential rainfall at a rate of at least  25mm per hour, snow  to 
a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 24 hours or hail of such  intensity  that it causes 
damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Having reviewed weather  records  for Miss M and Mr Js locality  on the date they say the 
damage took place  I can see wind speeds  with gusts of 58 mph were recorded  on 14 March 
2019. Im satisfied this meets AXAs definition of a storm.
But even if there  was a storm in order  for me to uphold a claim for storm damage  I would 
have to be persuaded that the damage  caused  was consistent with what  our service would 
normally consider  storm damage. Id also be to be satisfied that the storm was the 
main/dominant cause  of the damage. 
In this case AXA is able to rely on Cs opinion  that the damage was caused  by an absence  
of wall ties. But Miss M and Mr J disagree with what C has said here.  They arent happy that 
Ref: DRN80854743AXA has relied on the loss adjusters report to decline their claim but Im satisfied C is a 
recognised organisation who regularly assesses property damage on behalf of insurers.  So, 
its isnt unreasonable for AXA to use Cs expertise in assessing a claim for damage. 
Miss M and Mr J say they instructed a Homebuyers survey prior to purchasing  their house  in 
2013. They  say no construction faults or evidence of poor workmanship were identified by 
this survey. And they told our service they hadnt  experienced any issues with the gable end 
wall before 14 March  2019.  While I understand the point theyre making here,  I think  it's 
unlikely a Homebuyers survey would pick up on the issues that were exposed  by the storm 
in March 2019. I say this because a Homebuyers survey is a cursory  examination  that only 
highlights current faults at the time the survey is undertaken. And a lack of roof ties wasnt 
uncommon in houses that were built at around the time of Miss M and Mr Js property.   
Miss M and Mr J instructed  T to assist  them  after their gable end wall was damaged.  And 
Ive seen an email from T, which states the force of the wind and storm would have caused 
a rocking action on the outer skin. T also said the lack of adequate  wall ties added  to the 
instability of the outer skin. 
As our investigator explained, our service  would expect a gable  wall to be reinforced or tied 
back using supporting metal. Its clear to me that both C and T feel the problem with the 
stability of Miss M and Mr Js gable  end wall was due to the lack of wall ties. This all 
persuades me that the gable end wall damage occurred due to a construction fault/poor  
workmanship, which was exposed by prevailing weather conditions in March 2019. 
Overall, I think weather conditions over a period of time may have weakened the gable  wall. 
But Im satisfied that the damage here was caused  by the absence  of wall ties rather than a 
one-off storm event. I dont think the gable  wall would have come  down had it been  tied in. 
And this means  Im not satisfied that the damage caused was storm related.
Under the terms of Miss M and Mr Js policy loss or damage caused  by faulty design, plan, 
specification, materials or workmanship is specifically excluded.  This is in common with most 
home insurance policies  because  insurance  is intended to cover the unforeseen, and loss or 
damage caused by poor workmanship or faulty  construction, for example, isnt unforeseen. 
Overall, I dont  think AXA made an error in attributing the cause of the gable end wall 
damage to the lack of wall ties. I think it fairly  referred to the absence of wall ties as a 
workmanship fault. As this is something  that isnt covered under the terms and conditions  of 
Miss M and Mr Js insurance policy I cant fairly ask AXA to approve their claim.  
Ill now address some  service complaints Miss M and Mr J raised about the way in which  
their claim was dealt with by AXA and those it appointed. I can see that AXA has accepted  
the service Miss M and Mr J received  could  have been better. Its already offered them £100 
to recognise the distress  and inconvenience they were caused. But Miss M and Mr J feel this 
doesnt adequately reflect their experience.
We arent here to punish businesses. And, to put things right, Id have asked AXA to make 
an appropriate award of compensation to reflect  the trouble and upset caused. I understand 
this situation was very distressing for Miss M and Mr J. But claims for damage of this nature 
can be complex and tend to take some time to resolve. It is inherent with such a claim that 
there will be stress and considerable inconvenience.  Our role is to consider whether this was 
avoidable and to assess fair compensation for failing as a whole.  
Ref: DRN80854744In this case its clear the service from AXA and its agents could have been better and that 
this all had an impact  on Miss M and Mr J. But on balance, Im satisfied that the 
compensation AXAs already paid fairly reflects  the trouble and upset they were caused. Its 
in line with what I would have suggested  had no offer been  made.  So, I wont be requiring 
AXA to increase the amount its already paid. 
I appreciate that Miss M and Mr J feel very strongly about the issues  raised in this complaint 
and I know theyll be disappointed with my decision. But, while  I appreciate the reasons why 
they brought their complaint to our service,  Im satisfied that AXA has acted fairly and 
reasonably. So, I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8085474