K820x#14Complaint
Four members of the same family  (Ms B, Mr C, Mr F and Ms F) complain about  the way 
ReAssure Limited has handled the administration of their individual pension  plans. In this 
complaint they are all represented by Mr B, so for ease Ill refer to Mr B throughout, unless 
events are specific to one of the individual complainants.
Background
The four family members  each had individual pension plans, which were managed by 
ReAssure. Mr B had their authority to speak  to ReAssure on their behalf  and to deal with any 
matters arising. 
11
In the course  of his communication with ReAssure,  on two occasions it gave him incorrect  
information about the value of two of the funds, and there were  further administrative errors 
made when  payments were made into the funds. ReAssure acknowledged the mistakes it 
had made  after Mr B complained, and offered Mr C and Ms B £50 compensation each in 
recognition.
Mr B didnt think this was sufficient, and also thought  ReAssures administration and 
business model needed investigating. So he complained to our service. Our investigator  
thought that much of Mr Bs complaint was out of our remit, and gave him the information  he 
needed to go to the regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).  However, he was able 
to look at the complaint about  how ReAssure  had responded  to his requests for information 
about the accounts. And having done  so he thought ReAssures acknowledgement  of its 
mistakes, and the £50 compensation paid to Ms B and Mr C, was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr B didnt agree. He thought our service should  refer ReAssures administration  of the 
funds to the FCA, and that the £100,  although  not the main issue, didnt reflect  the amount of 
time he had spent communicating with ReAssure  and doing his own work to obtain 
information. As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number  of detailed points and provided a lot of evidence,  both in response 
to the investigators  initial view and subsequently, and I have looked at it all. Were an 
informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this 
complaint Ive focussed on what I consider  to be the heart of the matter,  rather than 
commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr B, rather it 
reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit and my role in it. Im satisfied that he has 
been correctly  advised that our service looks at individual complaints. Mr B has concerns 
about ReAssures  strategic-level administration and decision  making,  which would be 
considered by the FCA, and he has been told how he can raise these issues  with them 
directly.
It is not disputed  there have been administrative problems relating to the individual pension 
plans, and ReAssure  has acknowledged these, put the mistakes right by providing the 
Ref: DRN82876162correct information  and ensuring there was no financial loss, and apologised. It has also paid 
Ms B and Mr C £50 each  in compensation. I need to consider if I think this is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. And having done so, I think it is, so dont think  ReAssure 
need to do anything more. Ill explain why.
There were two occasions where Mr B had requested  information  on the fund holdings and 
ReAssure had got the figures wrong.  There was another occasion where Mr B had 
requested further  information regarding the funds  and ReAssure  hadnt  provided him this. 
And Mr B had also made  single contributions into each  of the policies, but an incorrect 
amount was attributed to the fund held by Ms B. 
So, although  there were  errors made,  these have been acknowledged  and put right. And 
where ReAssure recognised its mistake had led to a reduction in value of one of the funds,  it 
made up this shortfall so that no financial loss was suffered. So, Im satisfied that £50 to 
each of Ms B and Mr C is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But Im also aware that Mr B has said this doesnt reflect  the work and effort he had to put in 
during the process. I fully acknowledge what hes done, and completely appreciate and 
understand the reasons  why, but when it comes  to awarding compensation for distress and 
inconvenience, we can only tell a business  to pay compensation  to its customers. And in this 
case, as Mr B is representing  his family  members,  and is not a customer  of ReAssure 
himself, I cant require  it to pay him compensation directly. 
So Im satisfied that ReAssure doesnt need  to do anything more in relation  to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont require ReAssure Limited to do anything  else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B, Mr C, Mr F 
and Ms F to accept or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8287616