K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society is holding him liable for a number of 
cheque payments made from his account. He says that he never  received  the cheque  book 
and that he was abroad at the time. 
background
In July 2017 Nationwide sent Mr B a new cheque book. He says he didnt receive it and that 
he was out of the country from 14 August until 20 September. 
In the few weeks after the new cheque  book was sent eleven cheques  were drawn on Mr Bs 
account. One wasnt paid, but the ten that were  totalled over £9,000. The payees  were, it 
appears, dealers in gold coins  and a seller of postage supplies. 
When Mr B said he hadnt issued the cheques,  Nationwide  looked  into things. It believed 
however that the cheques had been issued by Mr B. It noted that one of the payees had said 
that the goods that it had sold had been delivered  to a shop near Mr Bs home, and that he 
had received several credits from that shop. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service  and one of our investigators considered it. He agreed  
with Nationwide  that it appeared that Mr B had been involved in the purchases.  He contacted 
some of the retailers concerned, covering most  of the purchases.  All said that the orders  had 
been delivered to one of two addresses, next door to each other.  They are the address of 
the shop which Nationwide  had identified as having  sent payments to Mr B. The shops 
website gives both addresses. One of the retailers also provided Royal  Mail tracking 
numbers, indicating goods were collected from one of its delivery offices. The adjudicator 
noted that whoever collected  the goods  had signed  from them using Mr Bs name.  
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman  review the 
case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal first of all with a comment that Mr B has made about evidence  and how this service 
approaches it. He says it is for Nationwide to show that he was responsible  for the payments 
from his account, not for him to show he wasnt. In fact, our rules about evidence  are much 
less rigid than that (and less rigid than,  say, the rules which would  apply in court). In part, 
thats because  we make our own investigations  where we need to. Where  the evidence  is 
contradictory (as much of it is here), Ive decided what I think  is more  likely to have 
happened  but without  imposing a burden of proof  on one party or the other.  
I turn then to the specific issues in this case.       
A properly  drawn  cheque  is, in effect,  an instruction from a holder of a bank or building  
society account to the account provider to make  a payment to the payee  named on the 
cheque. So the key issue here is whether Mr B instructed  Nationwide to make  the payments 
or whether someone else did so. He says that someone else got hold of his cheque  book 
before it was delivered to him and imitated him by writing the cheques. 
Ref: DRN85550592The first issue I have  to consider therefore  is the delivery of the chequebook. Ive no reason 
to think it wasnt sent by Nationwide to the address it had on its records  for Mr B. Post can 
go missing, but most is delivered safely,  so its likely   but by no means certain  that the 
chequebook reached Mr Bs address.
The chequebook was, according to Nationwides records, sent on 19 July. Id expect it to 
arrive within two or three days,  so it is perhaps  unusual  that Mr B didnt follow up on it if he 
hadnt received  it. He says that he was away from the UK for several weeks. Ive seen a 
copy of his passport,  and I accept that he was away from the middle of August until 20 
September. That was however still around  three  weeks after the chequebook should  have 
been delivered. Most of the orders were  placed while  Mr B was out of the country, although 
some were  made  later.
I have therefore  considered  the cheques themselves. As Ive explained, a cheque is an 
instruction to make a payment.  Its usually verified by signature;  that is, the signature is the 
account holders  way of showing that they are giving that instruction, rather than someone 
else. But a signature  can be easily copied  or disguised. The fact that a signature looks 
genuine doesnt mean it is; a good  forgery is still a forgery. But if the account  holder in fact 
authorised a payment, the form of the signature does not negate  that authority. 
Ive seen copies  of Mr Bs driving licence and passport. Its reasonable to assume that the 
signatures on those documents are genuine. They do not, however, match the signatures  on 
the cheques. The difference is, in my view, quite clear.
In order to decide whether Mr B gave authority for the payments, therefore,  Ive considered 
the wider circumstances  just as the adjudicator did. 
To the extent that its been possible to identify what happened to the payments, they were 
used to make purchases of goods  which were delivered to a business  which  has links to Mr 
B  in the sense that it had previously made regular payments to him. Mr B says that those 
payments were in respect of a loan that hed made  to an individual, but he wasnt  aware  they 
were being  made through the business. I accept that he made a loan to that individual;  but 
his account statements show regular payments being made from that individual. So I dont 
accept that the business was repaying the loan, and I dont believe either  that Mr B has 
properly explained  his links with that business.  
The orders  made include, in some cases,  email addresses and mobile phone numbers. They 
dont appear to match any contact details held by this service. The date of birth given is also 
not Mr Bs. So, either the person who placed  the orders  didnt know  Mr Bs personal details 
or did know them but deliberately provided  incorrect information, knowing the retailers 
werent in a position to check and had no reason to do so.   
Ive also noted  what the sellers  have said about  delivery of the goods that were  collected 
from the Royal Mail. Whoever collected  the goods  would have had to provide  some form of 
identification, not just the delivery  card. And I note too that some orders were placed and 
signed for using  Mr Bs first name. But the printed chequebook only included his initial,  not 
his full first name. That is, in my view, a further  indication that whoever placed the orders and 
collected them wasnt unknown  to Mr B. 
There are a number of things which might  suggest  that Mr B wasnt involved in the payments 
and the purchases  and that he has, as he says, been a victim  of fraud.  He was away when 
most of the orders were  placed and delivered;  the signature  on the cheques didnt match 
Ref: DRN85550593those on other documents; the personal  details given to the suppliers dont appear to have 
been his. 
Against that, however, it is significant in my view that goods were  delivered to a business 
close to Mr Bs home and with which he has connections. Its unlikely that someone who had 
simply come across  the chequebook (or even deliberately intercepted it) would  have used it 
in that way. In my view, Mr Bs explanations of his contacts  with that business havent been  
reliable. 
Im prepared to accept that Mr B didnt sign the cheques  himself, but I think  he was involved 
in the purchases  made with them and that its more likely than not that he benefited from 
them. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be fair to require  Nationwide to refund the value of 
the cheques. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Nationwide Building Society  to do anything  more to 
resolve Mr Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr B to accept  or reject my decision before 30 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8555059