K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about incorrect advice he received from Legal and General Assurance 
Society Limited to transfer out of his occupational pension  scheme  (OPS). He also 
complains about  further advice  provided as he neared retirement.
Background
Mr B complained that hed been  given  wrong advice and transferred out of his OPS.  To 
settle the claim for that advice hed been  given a no worse  off guarantee. Hed worked for 
the same  employer for 45 years.  Hed compared himself to a member with similar pay and 
service and said he seemed to be worse off by about £70,000.  The original scheme  quoted a 
cash value of around £190,000 for an income  of around £6,300 per annum whereas L & G 
offers a cash value  of £185,000 for an income of around £8,100  per annum. The conversion  
rate for L & G was much less generous than in the original scheme. This meant  hed be 
forced to take the income whereas if the scheme conversion rate was used he wouldve 
been entitled to around  £250,000  and wouldve bought a higher level of income in the open 
market by way of an annuity.
More recently hed taken  a lower paid job with the same employer. His adviser checked to 
make sure it wouldnt  affect the guarantee and then went  ahead. At the time his cash value 
was close to £200,000. L & G had said that his retirement benefits wouldnt be affected so 
long as he took them before the end of the 2018/19  tax year. He went  ahead. But now he 
was told his cash value  was around  £185,000 because he took the lower paid job. He 
complained that it now seemed his transfer value would be lower  than expected.  He felt he 
had been given wrong information by L & G. If this had been explained at the time he 
wouldve taken his cash value in 2015  when he took the lower  paid job.
L & G said the original  advice to transfer  from his OPS was considered  and settled in 1998  
under the industry wide pension review in accordance with regulator guidance and couldnt 
be revisited. The action  it took at the time was to provide  Mr B with a benefit guarantee to 
provide benefits  equivalent to those he wouldve received had he not been advised  to 
transfer out of his OPS. Mr B had signed  papers to accept that guarantee in full and final 
settlement of his claim for that advice. That claim couldnt now be reopened.
With respect to the events  in 2015,  it said it didnt  provide Mr B with financial advice at the 
time. It provided Mr B with a transfer  value calculated in accordance with the applicable 
regulations. Mr Bs IFA asked for confirmation  that his benefit guarantee wouldnt be affected 
by any salary changes  provided he retired before 5 April 2019.  L & G replied to say it 
couldnt guarantee the amount payable under the guarantee at his actual retirement. No 
comment was made  about any changes in transfer value based on future  employment.  The 
information and answers provided were correct. There was no information about  the amount  
of any future  transfer value.
The investigator wasnt able to support the complaint.  She said that the claim regarding  
transfer out of the OPS has been  settled in accordance with regulator guidance. She noted 
the settlement  guaranteed  benefits  equivalent to those he couldve got from the scheme but 
not their equivalent  cash  value.  It would seem the claim was settled  in line with the review  
guidelines so it wasnt appropriate to interfere  with that settlement without evidence that the 
pension review wasnt conducted correctly, nor to interfere with how the transfer  value 
enhancement was calculated. She said that in 2015  it provided information but not advice. 
However she noted that while L & G confirmed  the benefit guarantee wouldnt be affected by 
Ref: DRN83671782the salary change if he took benefits before the end of the 2018/19 tax year it didnt 
comment on the fact the transfer value enhancement was subject to change. It wasnt asked  
to comment on this so it didnt. She said that she wouldve expected  Mr Bs financial adviser 
to be aware the transfer value could change.
L & G said it remained of the view that the pension  redress couldnt be reopened and that it 
hadnt been asked to comment  on the transfer  value. That was a matter  for his financial 
adviser who shouldve  considered this at the time.  The original transfer value was calculated  
in accordance with the standard assumptions but his IFA assumed the cash  transfer value 
would increase but didnt  ask for confirmation  that was the case. 
Mr B didnt agree. He asked why if the benefit  guarantee would not reduce if he retired 
before April 2019 then why did the amount of the cash  transfer  value reduce. He felt it was 
debatable whether L & G were asked about  the cash value. Hed been with the same  
employer for 45 years  but it seemed the cash equivalent value of the benefits from the L & G 
scheme were lower than those he wouldve got from his original OPS. Based on his cash  
value it seemed that hed been disadvantaged  by transferring that part from his OPS to the L 
& G scheme.  
With respect to the change in 2015 he expected the current cash equivalent to be higher 
today than it was in 2015. It appeared the value was lower because he changed his job. He 
said L & G admitted  that in 2015  it didnt point out that the 2015  transfer  value of around 
£198,000 was based on an assumption his salary would increase from the level applicable at 
that time.  In effect in 2015  he asked about  the impact of moving  to a lower paid job. L & G 
clarified the benefit guarantee  but not the cash value even though they were asked to 
provide a cash value  at that time. It wouldnt be reasonable  to expect a reduction in the cash 
value if there  was no reduction  in the benefit guarantee. 
The investigator noted Mr Bs points  but felt that he hadnt asked about the cash equivalent 
and as it wasnt in an advisory capacity she couldnt hold L & G responsible.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make an award against L & G I need to find it has made a mistake. There are 
several issues raised by Mr B and I will take each in turn.
Firstly the advice to transfer  out of his OPS.  This advice was reviewed  and the claim settled 
in accordance with the regulator  guidance by the provision of a benefit guarantee. I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest the settlement was incorrectly implemented  so I cannot 
consider the terms  of that settlement which is legally binding.
Mr B also compared himself to a colleague  with similar service and salary and felt he was 
worse off in terms of the cash  value of his benefits.  He said he was expecting  a higher value 
that couldve bought a higher annuity in the market. It isnt possible to comment  on that 
comparison as the figures  relate to an individual and his membership of another  scheme that 
isnt subject to this complaint. 
He also points out that his original OPS and L & G seemed  to be using different rates of 
conversion to provide  cash values. I have also seen the terms of the benefit guarantee. 
Ref: DRN83671783These relate  to the benefit payable  from the L & G scheme and dont stipulate that the cash  
value will be calculated using the same assumptions as those used by the OPS. So while  
there may be differences  I dont  have any evidence to show that L & G has done anything  
wrong.
Mr B also says that L & G shouldve warned him in 2015 that his transfer value would be 
affected by taking a reduction in pay. But I dont agree. Mr B had the benefit of advice from 
his IFA at the time he decided to make the change. The IFA asked questions and received 
answers about the benefit guarantee. L & G wasnt under an obligation  to advise Mr B as 
that was the role of his adviser.  So having  reviewed the correspondence I dont think L & G 
did anything wrong.  As it says it wasnt asked to comment on the transfer  value and how it 
might change in future. I note further  that it has kindly  agreed  to extend the method of 
calculation of his pensionable salary on terms such that it includes his higher historic salary  
until the complaint  is settled.
Mr B says that had he realised his future transfer value would be lower  due to the reduction 
in pay he wouldve taken  the transfer value  on offer in 2015. He felt L & G had made  him 
worse off not just because  his transfer  value  was now lower but also because hed lost out 
on investment returns that he couldve made by investing the 2015  transfer  value, which 
meant he was worse off. But I cannot see that L & G gave Mr B any advice that he relied 
upon to make the decision  he did, that was the role of his financial adviser.  L & G have also 
confirmed that the difference in transfer values. They  say the same  higher salary was used  
but the earlier transfer value contained  an assumption about growth of that salary  which  was 
not relevant after he moved to a lower  paid job and the new transfer value calculated. 
I would also comment that the benefit  guarantee remains in place  and Mr B can still claim 
that so he isnt worse  off in terms of the benefit  guarantee and especially as L & G have 
allowed him to extend the benefit of the terms that would  apply  up to April 2019  to include 
his higher salary.  So I dont think L & G did anything  wrong. 
As I cannot  find that L & G has done anything wrong I cannot uphold  this complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Colette Bewley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8367178