K821x#15complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about a key facts document produced by Strathearn  Insurance 
Services Limited (SISL) in relation to a property  deposit bond.
In summary,  Mr L says that SISL  failed to disclose material information and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the key facts document. He says that he decided to invest  
in a property investment  scheme (Scheme A) based solely upon the key facts  
document. The scheme failed, and Mr L lost his capital. He says that had the full facts 
and risk disclosures been made clear in the key facts document,  he would not have 
invested in the scheme  and suffered financial loss.
background
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019  upholding  the complaint. A copy  is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Mr Ls representative responded to say that Mr L accepts my provisional decision. SISL 
did not accept  the provisional decision.  Its representative said,  in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by 
this service in the jurisdiction decision in a similar  case. Notwithstanding this, it 
does not accept that Mr L falls within the ordinary meaning of a client.  There 
was no retainer of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by the 
consumer to SISL.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of 
the IPIN network tend to be high net worth / sophisticated investors who are 
familiar with property club type investments.  SISL  understood  that the IPIN 
members had self-certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making 
investments of this nature and they invested via IPIN because  they sought  a 
high rate of return, something which is inevitably associated with increased level 
of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their 
lawyers, IPIN and potentially, independent  financial advisers and that is 
something that needed to be taken into account.  
The provisional decision appears to regard the key facts  document as if it had 
either been a policy  summary or key features document as defined the FCA 
Handbook. It is actually  initial  disclosure document  (IDD) and should be treated 
as such. It is unfair to judge the IDD against  the standard  of another type of 
document which it never  purported  to be.
It cannot be said that Mr L relied  on the key facts document as it appears  quite 
possible that if the same bond had been  in place and he was told of the bond 
but the key facts  document  had not been  present, he would still have gone 
ahead with the scheme.
Ref: DRN81789242Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  
signed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. I remain  of the view 
that the settlement set out in my provisional decision represents fair compensation.
It seems  to me that a lot of points raised  by SISL  were already considered  by me in the 
provisional decision. So I dont think there is much more to add to what I have already 
said. However, for completeness, I have gone through again here what  in my view are 
the key points raised by SISLs representative  in response to my provisional  decision.
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  
this complaint, and a number of others similar to it. It said Mr L wasnt its customer, the 
deposit protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any 
regulated activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that 
the jurisdiction issues  that are relevant  to this case have been  considered  in the 
jurisdiction decision in that case. So I do not want to repeat  those findings  here.  I remain 
of the view that this complaint is within our jurisdiction for the reasons I mentioned in my 
provisional decision. I will however address the point raised by SISL following my 
provisional decision in this regard.  
SISL says that Mr L does  not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client, there was no 
retainer of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by him to SISL.
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) in accordance with the powers  it derives from FSMA. 
These form part of the FCA Handbook
DISP2.7.1R states:
"A complaint may only be dealt with under  the Financial Ombudsman  Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant."
An eligible  complainant is defined by DISP 2.7.3R as including a consumer, which 
means "any natural person acting  for purposes  outside his trade, business or 
profession".
DISP 2.7.6R further states:
Ref: DRN81789243To be an eligible complainant a person must  also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more  of the following relationships with the 
respondent:
(1)the complainant  is (or was)  a customer..  of the respondent
(2)the complainant  is (or was)  a potential customer of the respondent
     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was 
taken out or was intended to be taken  out with or through the respondent "
Mr L was a beneficiary under a contract of insurance. And for the reasons already 
explained, I am satisfied  that the contract of insurance was taken through SISL. So I 
consider that Mr L is an eligible complainant under DISP 2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Mr L but often insurance brokers are 
paid commission by the insurer and that is what had happened here. SISL was paid 
commission by the insurer NWIC.  As stated in the key facts  document  the commission  
was about 11% of the premium, paid by the developer  to NWIC.  As I understand  it, the 
premium in turn was 2.25%  of the deposit paid by Mr L. Of this, 2% was retained  by 
NWIC and 0.25% was paid as commission  to SISL. 
In addition, I also consider  that Mr L is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(2)R. It 
may be that there  was no retainer of SISL by Mr L but I am satisfied that he was a 
potential customer of SISL and therefore an eligible complainant under the DISP  rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance  intermediary offered its services  to potential  
customers. It said in the key facts document: Due to the regulated nature of the 
product offered, any direct questions relating specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES 
offering should  be directed to Strathearn  Insurance using the contact details below..
It further  said:  The FSA requires you to be provided with this information.  Use this 
information to decide if our services are right for you...
It also referred  to our service  in the event  of any complaint  and to the FSCS  in the 
event  SISL  could  not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied  that SISL  envisaged  
the recipients of the key facts document of the specific schemes as its potential  
customers.  
It may be that Mr L did not eventually approach SISL but SISL made its services 
available to him in its capacity as the regulated firm. And as noted earlier, SISL was paid 
commission in relation to the deposits  made, whether or not the respective investors 
contacted it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Mr L was a potential customers  of SISL 
and therefore  eligible  complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
relevant considerations
Ref: DRN81789244I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time.
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the 
fundamental obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients,  and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear,  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes  potential client (and so potential 
customer). 
Mr L was a potential  customer, and his complaint is essentially about  what  SISL 
communicated (or failed  to communicate)  to him through the key facts document. So, I 
consider that Principle  7 is relevant here.
I also consider that Principle 6 is relevant in this instance, which  says:  "A firm must  pay 
due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  fairly. 
IPIN provided Mr L with a promotional literature about the scheme. It was called the 
Investment Analysis Document (IAD).  The IAD stated that the bond would protect the full 
amount of the deposit in the event of a contractual default by the developer. Investors  
were referred to a Key Facts document produced by SISL, which  was included in the 
IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  22)". 
Page 22 is where  SISLs key facts document  can be found.
So when SISL produced  and provided the key facts document for the IAD, it knew that 
the consumers  were being referred to the key facts for information about the bond. So 
SISL had an obligation to ensure that the information it provided about  the bond  was 
clear, fair, and not misleading.
was the information provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision, I remain  of the view that that SISL  
did not provide  clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the insurance in its key 
facts document  provided to Mr L.
Ref: DRN81789245SISL says that what it provided was an Initial Disclosure Document. However  I note 
that this document was referred  to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than 
occasion. The IAD also refers to it as a key facts  document and not as an Initial  
Disclosure Document.    
In any event, as I explained  in the provisional decision, this key facts document was 
clearly intended  as the source of information  about the bond for potential customers  
thinking about investing in the schemes  and SISL was aware  of it. So I consider that 
SISL had an obligation to ensure that this communication was clear,  fair and not 
misleading.
did Mr L rely on the key facts document?  
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was 
misleading, I need to consider how much reliance  Mr L placed on this document  before 
he decided to make the relevant investment.
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision I think  it is reasonable to conclude 
that Mr L looked at what SISL stated in the key facts document  about the bond, and 
relied on it when  he decided to proceed  with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / 
sophisticated investors who were familiar with property club type investments. It says 
that they were  aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  
informed decision.  
At the time he invested, Mr L was 61. He was the director of a company providing 
business management and consultancy services.  He was also the director  of a fashion 
accessories business.  Mr L says he was looking for secure investments and was keen to 
avoid any risk to his capital as these funds formed part of his retirement  plan. Because  
of this, the security  offered by the insurance was crucial in his decision making.  
In my view the issue here is not so much  about consumers net worth or their knowledge 
of the investment (i.e., the property scheme  opportunities) but about the insurance that 
was intended  to offer protection should something go wrong  with the investment. To that 
extent, I accept that Mr L was not expert  enough to understand  the intricacies of the 
insurance product  - for example the solvency of the insurer  or whether they would be 
eligible for FSCS protection should something  happen to the insurer.  This is more so as 
the insurer was based overseas. So I do not consider it unreasonable when he says that 
he relied on SISLs information in relation to the bond.  
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties 
including their lawyers, IPIN and potentially other  independent financial advisers, 
and that is something  the investigator failed  to take into account.  
I have considered what SISL  has said and I am not persuaded  by it. As previously 
mentioned, in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential investors 
towards SISL for information about the bond and not to other professionals.  As I 
Ref: DRN81789246understand it, IPIN was concerned that it or other related companies should not 
provide information  or advice in relation to the insurance as they were  not 
authorised by the FCA in that regard.  This was why SISL was brought  in to handle 
that part of the scheme.  
Also, as noted  earlier, the key facts  document / IAD recommended that consumers 
seek independent advice on the investment proposals and contract.  However for 
information about the bond they were  directed to seek  information from SISL. 
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible 
for providing  information  about the bond. So I am doubtful whether the potential  
investors would  have been directed to other  professional people for information or 
advice about the bond. 
Nevertheless, even if it is the case that Mr L considers that another professional 
also failed him in their obligations, then it is up to him to decide  whether he wants  to 
take action against either  or both.  In my view,  even if another  professional  was 
involved concerning  the bond,  that does not absolve  SISL of the obligations it owed 
to its customers  or potential customers. Mr L considers that SISL failed in its 
obligations to him and he is entitled to bring that complaint of his about SISL to us, 
which he has done. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It 
says that the schedule  provided the name  and address of the insurance company 
and so 
Mr L ought to have known that the insurer was an overseas  insurer.  
Firstly, Im mindful  that SISLs key facts document was produced as part of the pre-
sale literature, whereas the Schedule  was only handed  over after the investment had 
been arranged  and monies  paid over. And in any event, the document  also did not 
highlight the risks involved adequately - for example, they did not highlight  the lack of 
FSCS protection. 
SISL has also argued that Mr L would still have invested even if the key facts 
document had not been provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit bond was 
in place.
IPIN directed the potential investors to SISLs key facts document for information 
about NWIC and the insurance  protection it provided. 
In the key facts  document  SISL clearly gave  the impression that it was the expert  
and it told the consumers that they accept the policy as it was designed to work 
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors ". 
As it happened the insurer  failed. Had the key facts  document  provided the 
appropriate warnings  about the insurer then I do not think that Mr L would  have 
gone ahead  with the scheme.  
In other  words, that the bond was in place isnt just the reason why Mr L invested in 
the scheme. He invested in the scheme with the belief that the bond  would satisfy 
his needs (i.e., protection of their capital)  and I consider that SISLs key facts  
Ref: DRN81789247document which provided information about  the bond played a key role in leading  
him to believe so.
The bond  cannot be considered in a vacuum.  It seems to me that to understand 
whether or not Mr L most likely relied on the key facts document, it is necessary  to 
first understand the features of the overall  scheme. Then consider the role played by 
the deposit bond within that scheme. And then go on to consider what  information was 
provided in relation to that product and whether  the consumer relied on that 
information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within the wider context of the investment - to 
be clear - the key question I have considered is what the consumer has complained 
about - which  is about the key facts document provided by the SISL.  
summary
In summary  I find that:
When Mr L decided to invest in the property scheme he was looking for a low risk 
investment with potential for good  growth. 
The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Mr Ls risk appetite.  
However the security  of capital was provided  through the bond. 
Given his risk appetite, I am satisfied that Mr L would have wanted to consider the 
information provided in relation to that bond  before  deciding to invest in the scheme. 
He was directed  to look into SISLs key facts  document for information  about the 
bond. So I consider it reasonable to conclude that he relied on that information along 
with SISLs recommendation that he accept the policy in deciding  to invest  in the 
scheme. 
SISL knew or ought to have known that it was its key facts  document that potential 
investors were directed to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to 
ensure that the key facts  document was clear, fair and not misleading. For the 
reasons already explained, the key facts did not provide  clear, fair and not 
misleading information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. Mr L has suffered a loss as a 
result. I consider  it more likely than not that had SISL provided clear,  fair and not 
misleading information about the risks involved with the bond,  he would not have 
invested in the schemes. So it is fair that SISL  compensate him for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr L in the position he would have  been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my conclusion that had the key risks of the 
bond - which  was the key component of the SES - been explained clearly,  it is more 
likely than not that Mr L wouldnt have invested  in the SES scheme at all.
Ref: DRN81789248I am satisfied Mr L was looking to invest his money,  so I think he would have invested 
elsewhere, but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what  he would 
have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair, given his 
objective for growth with capital protection.
To compensate Mr L fairly, the business should calculate  the position  Mr L would now be 
in if his investments  had produced a return matching  the average rate for fixed  rate 
bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity as published  by the Bank of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view Mr L wanted to achieve  
a reasonable return without  risking  any of his capital. The average rate would  be a fair 
measure given his circumstances and objective. It does not mean that Mr L would have 
invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could 
have obtained  with little risk to their capital.
The compensation payable to Mr L is the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of their investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
actual value
This means  the amount  received by Mr L out of the scheme. 
Any amount  received by Mr L from the scheme  should be deducted from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from that 
point on.
It is not clear  whether  at all Mr L would receive  any further disbursement from Scheme 
A. It seems unlikely. However, SISL could  take ownership of the investment if it wishes  
to, provided Mr L agrees.  If it is not possible for SISL  to take ownership,  then it may 
request an undertaking from Mr L that he repays  to SISL any amount he may receive 
from the investment  in future.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  the 
business should use the monthly average  rate for the fixed  rate bonds  with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply  those rates  to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. The calculation should  be made from the date of investment  
to date of my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is to uphold Mr Ls complaint.  
To put things right, Strathearn Insurance  Services  Limited  should  pay to Mr L the fair 
compensation as set out above.  It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this 
amount from date of decision  to date of settlement, if compensation is not paid within  28 
Ref: DRN81789249days of the business being notified  of acceptance.  Income tax may be payable  on this 
interest payment.  
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should  provide  details of its calculation to Mr L in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN817892410copy - provisional  decision
complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about a key facts document produced by Strathearn Insurance  Services 
Limited (SISL) in relation to a property deposit bond.
In summary, Mr L says that SISL failed  to disclose  material information  and provide appropriate 
risk warnings in the key facts document. He says that he decided  to invest in a property 
investment scheme (Scheme  A) based solely  upon  the key facts document. The scheme failed, 
and Mr L lost his capital.  He says that had the full facts and risk disclosures  been made clear in 
the key facts document, he would  not have  invested  in the scheme  and suffered financial loss.
background
Mr L is a member of IPIN Global Prospects Network (IPIN). This is an investment network  which 
aims to provide real estate schemes  to its members. IPIN is the trading  name  of a Spanish 
company  Global Prospects S.L. 
IPIN typically marketed  its schemes  as secure exit strategies (SES). As I understand it, under 
this strategy, the investors funded property developments such as hotels, student 
accommodation and residential care homes by way of a deposit. The deposits were  initially sent 
to a lawyer where they are maintained within an escrow facility. The developer would draw the 
deposit down, when needed,  to finance the project. The property units  would  be sold by the 
developer before a set date and the investor would get their deposit back, along with a share of 
any profits from the sale.
A key characteristic of SES schemes was the protection offered to the investors for their deposits. 
This was provided by the property developer  entering into an insurance contract  with an insurer.
So if a project failed or the developer  defaulted,  the investors - who were  named  as the 
beneficiaries of the insurance contract - could claim any difference between  the deposit paid and 
any money already  returned  to them.
The deposits  held in an escrow facility  could be drawn down by the developer only after they had put 
this insurance in place for each scheme. This insurance was called  the Property Deposit Bond (the 
bond). Mr Ls complaint against SISL is in relation to this insurance product.
Mr L invested in Scheme  A in September 2012,  paying a deposit of about  £30,400.  
An insurer based in Nevis,  Northern & Western Insurance Company  (NWIC) underwrote the 
bond. 
The company behind Scheme A went into liquidation.  Mr L received no payment from the 
property developer, so attempted  to claim  against the bond.  However NWIC itself entered  
liquidation in January  2015. 
Because he couldnt recover  his money from the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) due to NWIC not being covered by the scheme, Mr L complained to SISL. He said that 
the information SISL gave in its key facts  document was not clear, fair, and not misleading, and 
that if SISL had made him aware of the inherent risks posed  by NWIC,  he wouldnt have invested 
at all. 
SISL didnt respond to Mr Ls complaint, so he referred it to this service. 
Ref: DRN817892411my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im minded to uphold Mr Ls complaint for 
the reasons set out below. 
can we consider the complaint?
SISL has previously objected to this service considering  this complaint, and a number of others 
similar to it. Briefly, it has said Mr L wasnt its customer, and that the deposit protection  insurance  
wasnt a regulated product. 
This was considered at length  by us in another similar case  and SISL recognises that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have been considered in the jurisdiction decision 
in that case. So I do not want to repeat that here. However, for avoidance of doubt  - I am satisfied 
that this complaint is within our jurisdiction.  In summary I consider that: 
(a) The property deposit bonds about which the consumers have complained are contracts  of 
insurance. 
(b) SISL carried out the regulated  activity  of arranging  (bringing about) deals in investments 
and/or making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments. 
(c) Mr L is an eligible complainant.
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the time.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  handbook sets out the Principles which are a general  
statement of the fundamental obligations  of the firms it regulates,  such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information 
to them in a way which is clear fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential client (and so potential  customer). 
Mr L was a potential customer, and his complaint is essentially about  what  SISL  communicated 
(or failed to communicate) to him through the key facts document. So I consider  that Principle  7 
is relevant here.
I also consider  that Principle  6 is relevant in this instance, which  says: "A firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them  fairly.
IPIN provided Mr L with promotional literature about the scheme. It was called the Investment 
Analysis Document (IAD). The IAD stated that the bond would protect  the full amount of the 
Ref: DRN817892412deposit in the event of a contractual default by the developer. Investors were  referred  to a Key 
Facts document produced by SISL, which was included in the IAD.
The IAD said:
"The property  deposit is provided by the developer in association with Strathearn
Insurance Services Ltd (see page  21)". 
Page 21 was entitled Professional  Service Providers and included the following:
PROPERTY  DEPOSIT BOND
Strathearn Insurance
The SES application for [Scheme A] uses a Property Deposit Bond to protect  100% of the deposit 
funds invested by SES investors  in the event  that the developer defaults  upon his obligations  
within the applicable purchase  agreements.
The Property  Deposit Bond is arranged  on behalf of the developer by Strathearn Insurance 
Services Limited. Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct questions  relating 
specifically to the bond  aspect of the SES offering should be directed  to Strathearn Insurance.
Please see Key Facts document issued  by Strathearn Insurance overleaf .
So when SISL produced  and provided  the key facts document for the IAD, it knew that the 
consumers were  being referred  to the key facts for information about the bond.  So SISL had an 
obligation to ensure that the information  it provided about the bond was clear, fair, and not 
misleading.
was the information  provided clear, fair, and not misleading?
Mr L says it was not. He says:
SISL did not name the insurer;
SISL did not advise that the insurer was based overseas and not regulated by the FSA (now 
the FCA);
SISL did not make  clear that the insurer was not covered by the FSCS; and
had SISL done this, he wouldnt have invested. 
Having considered  everything, I am minded to agree that the information  provided in the key 
facts document was not clear or fair; and was misleading. 
There is no mention in the key facts that the insurer was NWIC. The document does not say that 
NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  NWIC fail to meet its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the FSCS. 
Also, considering that this was the document that the consumers were referred to in the 
marketing literature for explanation about the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it 
explained the key terms and conditions of the policy  but that wasnt the case. So I consider that 
the information wasnt  clear.
Further, the key facts document  said: "Strathearn Insurance  recommends that you accept this 
policy, as it is designed to work specifically with the investment proposal developed  for IPIN SES 
investors".
Ref: DRN817892413However it did not highlight the potential risks as noted earlier. I consider that failing  to balance its 
recommendation to potential customers to accept the policy without explanation of the potential  
risks meant that the information was presented in a misleading, unclear and unfair  way.
Overall, I consider that SISL did not provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the 
insurance in its key facts document provided  to Mr L.
did Mr L rely on the key facts document?
Having concluded  that the key facts document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need 
to consider how much  reliance Mr L placed on this document  before he decided to make the 
relevant investment.
Mr L says he relied  solely on the key facts document before making  his decision to invest. To 
determine the likelihood of this, I have considered what it was he was looking for when he 
decided to invest in Scheme  A.
At the time he invested, Mr L was 61. He was the director of a company providing business  
management and consultancy services. He was also the director  of a fashion accessories 
business. Mr L says he was looking for secure investments and was keen  to avoid  any risk to his 
capital as these funds formed part of his retirement plan.
 
Property schemes generally have potential for higher returns.  So I can see Mr L considered them 
as a way to enhance his retirement funds. On the other hand, they tend to involve a higher level 
of risk and that would not be suitable for Mr Ls capital  safety objective. However,  in this instance 
the schemes were marketed as low risk exposure and it is clear from the promotional  literature 
that the protection offered  through  the bond  was a key selling point to convince  the consumers 
that the schemes were  indeed low risk. So, given  his objective and circumstances, I am 
persuaded that Mr L would not have considered investing in the schemes without the protection 
offered by the bond.
So the next question I have to consider is whether Mr L relied on SISLs key facts  document  for 
information about the bond before deciding to invest in the scheme.
It seems to me that to understand whether or not Mr L most likely  relied on the key facts document, 
it is necessary to first understand the features of the overall scheme. Then consider the role played  
by the deposit bond within that scheme. And then go on to consider what  information  was provided in 
relation to that product and whether Mr L relied on that information.
Thus whilst I have considered the bond within  the wider  context of the investment  - to be clear  - 
the key question  I have considered is what the consumer  has complained about  - which is about  
the key facts document provided  by SISL.
It seems to me that when  Mr L was provided with the marketing literature he would  want  to look at 
the information concerning  the bond to ensure  that it met his objective. And IPIN directed  
potential investors, like Mr L, to SISLs key facts document for information about  the insurance. 
The IAD said: 
Due to the regulated  nature  of the product  offered,  any direct questions relating specifically to the 
bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn  Insurance.  
This clearly portrays SISL as the entity that potential  investors  needed to look to for information  
about the bond. And SISL portrayed itself in the key facts  as a specialised advisory  services  
Ref: DRN817892414company dedicated to residential  and commercial  real estate markets. SISL  also said The 
companys solutions are supported by leading international speciality  insurance groups . 
And SISL went on to state in the key facts:
"What services will Strathearn  Insurance provide you with?
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy, as it is designed to work 
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn Insurance  
does not offer advice on the SES investment proposal, the associated  contracts  or their 
interpretation.
You are recommended to obtain independent legal  advice on all associated contracts, and the 
duties, responsibilities  and obligations of the parties to the contracts. "
The way this is written  I consider that a distinction was made between the insurance part of the 
scheme and the rest of the investment, and that SISL  was portrayed as the financial business  
tasked with providing  information about the insurance.
So Im minded to find that Mr L looked at the things SISL said in the key facts document in 
respect of the bond, and reasonably relied  upon these representations  when deciding  to invest  in 
the scheme. 
Mr L had been the director of a number of companies, but this does not in itself mean he was 
sophisticated in matters  of insurance. He says his investment experience was minimal,  and he 
describes the funds he held available to invest as limited, saying he only invested in low to 
medium risk trusts which protected his capital.  Given his experience and background at the time,  
I think  Mr L was highly  dependent on the information SISL provided when deciding whether or not 
to invest  in this project.
SISL knew, or ought reasonably to have known,  that potential investors would be directed  to its 
key facts document for information about the bond. So it had an obligation  to ensure that 
document was clear,  fair, and not misleading.  But, as Ive set out above,  Im not presently  
persuaded it did this. 
The scheme  Mr L invested  in failed and NWIC has been liquidated. Mr L has suffered a loss as a 
result. And, from what Ive seen so far, I think had SISL  provided information  about  the risks 
involved with the bond which  was clear, fair, and not misleading, he wouldnt have invested in the 
scheme. So it is fair that SISL compensate him for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider  that my aim should be to put Mr L in the 
position he would have been in but for SISLs failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above, it is my provisional conclusion that had the key risks of 
the bond  - which was the key component of the SES - been explained  clearly, it is more  likely 
than not that Mr L wouldnt have invested in either SES scheme at all.
I am satisfied  Mr L was looking to invest  his money, so I think he would have invested elsewhere, 
but with capital protection.  It is not possible to say precisely what he would  have done differently. 
But I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair, given his objective for growth  with capital  
protection.
To compensate Mr L fairly, SISL should calculate the position Mr L would  now be in if his 
investments had produced  a return matching the average rate for fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 
Ref: DRN817892415months maturity  as published by the Bank of England. The calculation period should be from the 
date of the investment until the date of my decision. 
I have chosen this method of compensation because in my view Mr L wanted to achieve a 
reasonable return  without risking any of his capital. The average rate would  be a fair measure  
given his circumstances and objective. It does not mean that Mr L would have invested only in a 
fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment  return a consumer  could have obtained with little risk 
to their capital.
The compensation  payable  to Mr L is the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of his investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is 
payable.
actual value
This means  the amount received by Mr L out of the scheme. 
As I understand it, Mr L has so far received only one disbursement of about £600 from Scheme 
As administrators in August 2017. If that is not the case, Mr L should  let me know.
Any amount received  by Mr L from the scheme should  be deducted from the fair value at the point it 
was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
It is not clear whether Mr L will receive any further disbursement from Scheme A. It seems 
unlikely. However, SISL could take ownership  of the investment if it wishes to, provided  Mr L 
agrees. If it is not possible  for SISL  to take ownership, then it may request  an undertaking from 
Mr L that he repays to SISL any amount he may receive  from the investment in future.
fair value
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, the business  should  
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity  as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis. The calculation period 
should be from the date of the investment until the date of my decision. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I should  receive  from either party by 23 February  2019, my 
provisional decision  is that this complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
It should also pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this amount  from the date of decision to date 
of settlement, if compensation  is not paid within 28 days of the business  being  notified of 
acceptance. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest payment. 
Strathearn Insurance Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, 
simple format.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8178924