K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the amount Ageas Insurance Limited agreed to pay for the value  of his 
car following a claim on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Fs car was damaged when it was hit by another vehicle. He made a claim on his 
insurance policy. Ageas said it wouldnt be economical to carry  out repairs  so it would pay 
Mr F the value of the car. It offered him £15,000.  Mr F didnt accept the offer as he said his 
car was worth  more.  
Our investigator thought the offer from Ageas was fair. She said because  of the type of car 
Mr F had, it was difficult to get a precise  valuation; the guides that we generally refer to didnt 
provide a value  for a car like this. But she said Ageas based  its offer on a report  from an 
engineer, which took into account  the condition of the vehicle. She had also considered  
some guides  and valuations for similar cars. She thought that to get a higher payment Mr F 
would need to show his car was in good  condition, and the report described it as fair.
Mr F disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says the car is insured for Market Value  so he will be paid the value  of the 
vehicle at the time in line with current market trends. The dispute in this case is about how to 
decide what the market value of Mr Fs car is. So thats what  I need to determine.
I would only direct Ageas to increase  its valuation if I think its approach unfair.  And I dont 
think the valuation  is unfair. Ill explain why.
When looking at complaints about  car valuations we tend to refer to motor  guides. Mr Fs car 
is a classic car, however,  and the usual guides  dont give a value for a car like his. 
Ageas engineer assessed the pre-accident condition  of the car as fair. He said there was 
some pre-accident damage which included rust on the front and rear bumpers; various dents 
and scratches; a missing  door handle; and the drivers seat and some of the trim had worn 
out. Ive seen photos of the car showing its condition and the damage listed.
The engineer referred  to adverts for similar cars. These were being sold for around £20,000 
but were said to be in top condition.
Ive looked at some guides for cars like Mr Fs. One gives a valuation  of £11,200 if the car is 
in fair condition and £15,900 if in good  condition.  To get a valuation above  £20,000  the car 
would need to be in excellent  condition. 
Mr F disputes the description  of his car as only fair. He says the engineer referred  to 
damage at the rear of the car but that was actually  caused in the incident and wasnt there  
before. He also says he had the missing door handle and was about to put that back on the 
car.
Ref: DRN86879532Even assuming the damage to the rear of the car wasnt there previously, I dont think the 
car could  be described  as being  in good  or excellent condition, taking into account the 
other dents,  scratches,  rust and damage  to the interior trim. I agree with our investigator that 
the condition could best be described  as somewhere between fair and good. 
Mr F has referred  to a range of information in support of his argument  that the car is worth  
more. This includes adverts  hes found for similar cars indicating  higher values. Although  
helpful, I dont  find them particularly persuasive.  The cars at higher  prices are described as 
being in excellent condition. And the price  a car is advertised for isnt necessarily the price 
thats actually  paid. Hes also referred to a different guide, saying the condition of his car lies 
within condition "good and excellent making  it worth between £20,000 and £30,000 based 
on that guide. Finally,  he says even using the guide  our investigator referred to, as his car is 
between "good and excellent condition, this would give a figure of between £15,900 & 
£22,900  around £19,400.
The guide  Mr F refers to describes cars in excellent condition as being well presented with 
no obvious faults. I dont think that description would apply. Although  Mr F has disputed  
Ageas evidence of the cars  condition  he hasnt provided an independent report  to contradict 
the report from its engineer. So although Ive considered his comments  carefully, taking into 
account the information provided by Ageas engineer and the photos I dont think the car can 
be described as being  in good to excellent  condition. I agree with our investigator that its 
condition is between fair and good.
On that basis, even using the guide  Mr F has referred to, the fair value would be somewhere 
between £12,500  and £20,000. And using the other  guide, it would be between £11,200 and 
£15,900.
Taking either  of the guides, Ageas offer of £15,000  is in line with them.  So in my judgment 
its a fair market value  and I dont think Ageas should have to pay more  than the amount its 
already offered.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8687953