K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out to protect 
loans in 1999 and 2001. Mrs G says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and I will explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mrs G aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding the policies to her loans. Mrs G has said she was told she had to have the PPI to get 
the loans and that the PPI wasnt optional. I cant  be certain what was said when Mrs G 
applied for her loans  and PPI but Nationwide  has sent us a copy  of the available  paperwork.
The loan agreements  for both 1999 and 2001  that were signed  by Mrs G describe the 
policies as Optional Credit Insurance the forms also show a cost for the loan and for the 
PPI separately from each other. With this in mind  I think  Nationwide  made it clear that 
Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take them  out  although I can 
understand why she may not remember this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mrs G so it didnt have to check  if they 
were right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information  she needed to 
decide if they were  right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
available which included sick pay and a life insurance policy. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to and for longer than Mrs G would have received full sick pay. The policy 
would also have covered circumstances that her life insurance wouldnt have. 
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Gs circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
Ref: DRN89502552businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
So Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G for the loan she took out in 
2001 because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Nationwide  didnt tell 
Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium for the loan Mrs G took out in 2001  
- and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
For the loan Mrs G took out in 2001  Nationwide has to pay back to Mrs G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should also 
pay back to Mrs G any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mrs G the extra she paid each month on the loan she took 
out in 2001 because the commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium - including any extra Mrs G paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide  should 
also pay Mrs G 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN89502553my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium attached to the loan she took out in 
2001. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8950255