K820x#14Complaint
Mr T complains that he was given incorrect information about a fixed  rate ISA by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc (trading as Yorkshire  Bank). 
Background
In August  2018  Mr T contacted Yorkshire  Bank and asked about topping  up his ISA. He 
wanted to pay in £5,000  and check whether he could use the rest of his tax free allowance  
later in the tax year. Yorkshire Bank  said there was no limit on the number of deposits made 
into the ISA account  and that any limits were  based  on the total deposit  amount. 
Mr T tried to pay £15,000  into his ISA on 2 April 2019 but it wasnt possible. As a result, Mr T 
says hes lost out on his tax free savings  allowance for 2018/2019  and has asked to be 
compensated for that. Mr T complained and Yorkshire Bank  responded on 29 April 2019  and 
agreed Mr T had been given incorrect information.  Yorkshire Bank said it wasnt  possible to 
add new funds into the ISA and sent Mr T a cheque  for £50. 
Mr T referred his complaint to our service  and it was reviewed by an investigator.  The 
investigator discussed the situation  with Yorkshire  Bank and it initially agreed to pay Mr T 
£402.19 in addition to the £50 it had previously offered.  After  Mr T provided some  additional  
information the investigator asked Yorkshire Bank to increase its offer to £876.67 which  took 
into account tax Mr T will likely pay on the interest he receives over the next five years. 
Mr T asked  for his complaint to be appealed as he thought Yorkshire Banks offer of £50 in 
relation to the incorrect information hed been given wasnt  fair. Mr T said he thought the 
offer should  be increased by a small amount to recognise the difficulties hed experienced. 
As Mr T asked to appeal  his complaint has been  passed to me to make a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr T is upset.  He asked for information about his ISA account and was 
given the wrong  answer. As a result, he partially  lost out on the use of his tax free personal 
allowance for the tax year 2018/2019. Im pleased Yorkshire  Bank has agreed to 
compensate Mr T for his losses. 
After the investigators  initial view,  Mr T provided some additional information about  his 
losses. The investigator  went back to Yorkshire  Bank and asked it to increase the award to 
£876.67. The investigator agreed with Mr T that this figure accurately reflected  his loss as he 
will now pay tax on the interest he receives.  
But the investigator didnt increase the level of compensation in relation  to the trouble and 
upset caused  by the incorrect advice  Yorkshire  Bank provided. Mr T said he thought  
Yorkshire Bank should increase its award  by an additional £50 given the nature of the 
incorrect advice and the length  of time the situation has gone  on. Whilst Mr T accepted  the 
£876.67 figure was reasonable, he asked  to appeal on the basis  that £50 didnt fairly reflect 
the impact of Yorkshire Banks error on him. 
Ref: DRN80713222I agree  with Mr T. I dont  think the £50 offered is fair and Im satisfied the additional £50 Mr T 
has mentioned more fairly reflects what  happened.  I recently asked the investigator to get in 
touch with both Mr T and Yorkshire Bank  to let them know that I intended to increase the 
settlement by £50 taking  the total award  for the distress and inconvenience caused to £100.  
Yorkshire Bank offered Mr T £402.19  which represents the difference  in interest rates.  But 
the investigator later asked Yorkshire Bank to increase its offer to reflect  the tax Mr T will 
likely pay on his savings because they arent  held within an ISA. The investigator 
recommended Yorkshire Bank increase the award  by £474.48 which  represents the tax Mr T 
will likely pay over the next five years. 
Yorkshire Bank responded to say its original offer was made on the basis  that Mr T would  be 
able to save within his personal savings allowance  so wouldnt be taxed. But Mr T has sent 
us evidence that he had other savings in place that meant his full allowance  had been  used.  
I agree  with the investigator that Yorkshire Bank should also compensate Mr T for the 
additional tax he is likely  to pay over a five year period. As a result,  I think the additional  
award of £474.48,  taking  the total settlement  to £876.67, is a fair reflection of Mr Ts likely 
losses over the next five years.  Im going  to endorse that figure.  
As Ive said above,  I asked the investigator to contact both parties and let them know I 
intended to increase the award  for the trouble and upset caused  from £50 to £100. I remain  
of the view thats fair. I agree  with the investigator  that Yorkshire Bank should also 
compensate Mr T for the additional  tax hes likely  to pay over the next five years in addition 
to the interest  hes lost out on. As a result,  Im upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as 
Yorkshire Bank) to pay Mr T £876.67  to cover his losses plus £100  for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its actions (less any compensation already paid).   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8071322