K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired via a hire purchase agreement  with Black Horse  
Limited isnt of satisfactory quality.
background
In September  2017  Mr M acquired a new car via a four year hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse.
Mr M says he experienced  some  issues with the car including it suffering from excessive 
condensation. He took the car back to the dealership in September 2018  where  repairs 
were carried  out to the car because of an illuminated oil light and also for issues  with the 
cars door handles. Both of these repairs were carried out as recall actions.
The dealership says it only found  mild condensation  in the car and as a result  it changed 
the seals on the windows.
The car was returned to Mr M who complained that the car windows rattled and he says he 
also complained  that there continued to be a condensation problem. The dealership  says it 
told Mr M that the rattle was due to the way the windows were designed and demonstrated 
this on a car of the same  make and model  as his. But Mr M was unhappy about the car and 
complained to Black Horse who arranged for the car to be inspected  by an independent  
engineer.
The independent engineer inspected the car in November 2018  and reported that the 
windows did appear  to have excess play which they said could be easily  repaired. The 
independent engineer also said that the play in the glass would  be a gradual  occurrence 
that was due to wear  and tear. They said this fault would have been  present or developing 
at the point of sale.
Black Horse  said it had queried  the independent  engineers opinion  that the fault had been  
present since the point  of sale, given the information provided by the dealership. The 
independent engineer had responded that the door glass did have excessive play 
compared to other  models which didnt appear  to be a design characteristic, but rather 
sloppy assembly as the channel rubbers can be easily  adjusted . The independent  
engineer also said that the play in the door glass was a gradual occurrence  due to wear/ 
use and they should not rattle . 
Black Horse  said that it was upholding Mr Ms complaint  about  the repairs  to the oil light 
illuminating and the fixing of new door handles,  but not for the windows rattling  as there  was 
no evidence this had been present at the point of sale but rather had developed over time 
due to use. It said it accepted Mr M would have  been inconvenienced by having to have the 
car repaired and offered  him £200  compensation.
Mr M was unhappy at Black Horses view and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should be partially upheld.
Our investigator said that Mr M had raised a number of issues  hed had with the car, 
though most  had now been resolved save for the windows rattling and the condensation. 
Ref: DRN86054222He said that although Black  Horse hadnt  addressed the condensation issue it had been  
aware this was part of Mr Ms complaint.
Our investigator said that there was a conflict in the evidence as the independent engineer 
had said there was excessive play in the window glass, but the dealership  had said this 
wasnt a fault and was simply a characteristic of the car. The dealership said it had 
demonstrated this to Mr M with another car of the same make  and model, though Mr M 
disagreed this had happened.
Our investigator also said that Black  Horse had contacted the manufacturers  technical 
team who had confirmed  that there  was no adjustment that could  be made to the windows  
as had been suggested by the independent engineer, because the window runners were on 
fixed points. The technical team  said it was aware  that a small number of customers  had 
raised the window  rattle,  but they were  satisfied it wasnt excessive and within  specification.  
Our investigator said in light of the evidence he was satisfied the rattle  was a characteristic 
and not a fault.
As Mr M had continued to have an issue with condensation in the car, despite the repairs to
the window seal in September 2018,  our investigator thought  it would be fair for Black  Horse 
to investigate that issue. He also said that Black  Horse had offered an increase  in the 
compensation to Mr M to £250 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused by 
the car needing  repairs, which he thought was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M was unhappy at out investigators  view. He said the car has developed  mould  on the 
seat belts and a funny smell. He said the issue was with the windows not fitting properly and 
he thinks the car isnt of a satisfactory quality. He said he would like to return the car and 
cancel the agreement.
As the parties  were  unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued  a provisional 
decision along the following lines. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement,  in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating 
to it. Black Horse is also the supplier of the goods under  this type of agreement,  and is 
accordingly responsible  for a complaint  about  their quality .
Under the Sale of Good  Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are supplied  
"the quality of the goods is satisfactory".
And the relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet  the 
standard that a reasonable person  would  consider  satisfactory  taking into account 
any description of the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, w h e r e 
the supply o f a car is involved, the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicle's history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes  their general state  and 
condition and other  things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish,  freedom 
from minor  defects, safety, and durability  can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Here the car was new when Mr M acquired  it in September 2017 and I thought  a 
reasonable  person  would expect  it to be fault free and not to require issues with wear 
and tear for sometime.
Ref: DRN86054223The evidence provided about  the cars windows was conflicting and where evidence  
was contradictory or missing then I needed to decide what I thought  was the most  likely 
cause for the windows  to rattle and for the car to suffer from condensation.
Id seen that the condensation issue wasnt raised with the independent engineer,  or 
with manufacturers technical team. The dealership said that Mr M had raised  this as 
issue on a number of occasions, but only once had it seen a slight sign of 
condensation.  The dealership said this was repaired in September 2018 when the 
window seals were  replaced and it hadnt  seen any sign of condensation  since. Mr M 
said this has been an ongoing issue and was getting progressively  worse.
Id seen that the independent engineer found  there was excessive play in the glass  
compared  with other models I have checked.  They said this should be a relative  
easy  problem to fix. The dealership and manufacturers technical  team said any play in 
the glass is a characteristic of the car. But the manufacturers technical  team  provided  
an opinion  without seeing the car, unlike the independent engineer  and so I didnt think  
it was reasonable  to say this view necessarily undermined the view of the independent  
engineer, who I thought  was very clear  in their findings. I was unclear as to how the 
technical  team could conclude, without  physically inspecting the car, that any window 
movement  was within specification.
Id seen that Black Horse  had questioned  whether the independent engineer had 
actually  compared  the window movement in Mr Ms car with other models as stated  in 
their report.  But Id seen  that the independent  engineer was very experienced and I 
thought would be able to give an opinion as to whether  the movement of the glass  was 
excessive or not. The independent  engineer also said the windows should not rattle and 
they considered  the likely  cause  to have been  due to sloppy assembly .
In regards to the window rattle I preferred the evidence of the findings  recorded by 
the independent  engineer  as they were  providing an objective  and informed view. 
So, I was satisfied that the windows rattled  more  than should be expected  and in this 
case this wasnt a characteristic of the car.
The independent engineer gave the opinion that the rattle  had got worse due to wear 
and tear. However, as they considered it was due to the way the windows had been  
assembled I thought it was reasonable to think that this defect was developing at the 
point of sale. I also didnt  think  a reasonable person would expect a one year old car to 
have  issues relating to wear and tear with the windows. I thought  this was an issue of 
durability  which was relevant to the consideration of whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality.
I thought it more likely than not that the issue of poorly fitting windows  was linked to 
the ongoing issue of condensation. I found Mr Ms concerns  about the condensation  
issue to be credible as he had been consistent  in what he said. He has also provided 
photos of the mould that has now appeared on the seatbelts which was an indicator 
of a damp  interior.
Ref: DRN86054224I didnt  accept  the dealerships assertion that the condensation issue  was fixed  when 
the window seals were replaced.  Mr M had clearly raised it several  times as an issue 
after that date.
I thought from the evidence  Id seen that I could reasonably say that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of sale. And that the dealership  has had an opportunity 
to repair the problem  with the cars windows and condensation, but wasnt able to do 
so. So, I thought  that it was fair for Mr M to be able to reject  the car and cancel the 
agreement.  Any deposit he paid should be reimbursed with interest.
As Mr M had been able to use the car I didnt require Black  Horse  to reimburse  him the 
monthly payments  he has made  under the agreement. However,  I thought the £250  
compensation already  offered by Black  Horse was fair as it reflected  the distress and 
inconvenience of having to take the car back to the dealership for investigation and 
repair  of the faults.
For the reasons given above I was intending  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Black  Horse  has acknowledged  my provisional  decision  and it hasnt  asked  me to review  
any of my conclusions.  While  Mr M has agreed  with view that the car was of 
unsatisfactory  quality  he is unhappy  at the amount  of compensation  I was asking  Black  
Horse  to pay.
Mr M says  he is concerned  the mould  could  cause  an illness  in his family  and he was 
upset  that hed been  told the car had been  repaired  countless  times  but the work  had 
clearly  not been  done
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate this will be of disappointment  to Mr M I havent changed my view about 
the amount of compensation he should receive.
I agree  with Mr M that for the reasons set out above the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality and 
that as there has been a failed attempt to repair the car he is now entitled to reject  it and 
have the agreement unwound. That means that the agreement is ended with nothing further 
to pay and the deposit paid by Mr M is reimbursed with interest.  I also agree that having to 
deal with the faulty car has caused  Mr M unnecessary distress and inconvenience and so 
compensation is warranted.
When assessing a fair amount of compensation I look at the impact  having a faulty car has 
had on Mr M. Ive seen that he had the car for a year before it went for repairs for issues 
relating to recall  notices  and also the windows  rattling. The seals  to the windows were at that 
point replaced  but the rattling  and condensation  issue remained. However, I havent seen 
any other evidence  of other attempted repairs to the windows  following the successful 
repairs to the other parts.
Following Mr Ms complaint to Black  Horse the car was independently  inspected  in 
November 2018.  Black Horse questioned the findings of the independent engineer  and this 
Ref: DRN86054225led to discussions with the dealership and also the manufacturers technical team. This 
meant that Black Horse took a little time to send Mr M its final response to his complaint. 
However Ive seen that throughout  that time Mr M was able to use the car.
Mr M raised  the issue of the car having mould  during his complaint to this service. There 
doesnt appear to have  been any mould at the time the independent engineer inspected the 
car as I think its reasonable to have expected them to raise it if it had present. So I think its 
reasonable to think the mould  on the seat belts developed gradually. Mr M also hasnt had 
the car valeted  which I think would have been  reasonable if he felt he had to reduce his use 
of the car because  of its presence. I also dont have any evidence  that the mould is harmful.
In assessing the amount of compensation I have  taken  into account the repairs that were  
undertaken and also that Mr M had to use a car with windows that rattled leading to a 
condensation issue and mould subsequently  developing on the seatbelts. I appreciate that 
the car has been  a source of frustration for Mr M. But I dont think  a greater amount of 
compensation would be fair and reasonable in addition to rejecting the car and unwinding 
the agreement. Although Mr Bs enjoyment of using the car was spoiled looking at the 
annual mileage allowance under  the agreement and the mileage  undertaken by Mr M I dont 
think I can reasonably say that he hasnt been  able to use it.
So I am upholding Mr Ms complaint but not increasing the amount of compensation payable 
by Black Horse. Im asking Black Horse to end the agreement and collect  the car and pay Mr 
M £250  compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.  Im asking Black Horse  
Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay;
Collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
Reimburse any deposit  paid by Mr M together with yearly  interest  at the rate of 8% 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
Pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the 
faulty car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8605422