K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited, trading as Very,  are charging 
her interest on an item she bought  with them, despite her having reduced the balance  by 
making regular overpayments.
background
Mrs L bought  a dining room set on 19 July 2017  on buy now pay later (BNPL) terms with 
Very. This allowed her a year to repay the debt before  interest would be charged.  So she 
regularly paid more  than the minimum payment.
However, she was disappointed to find in August 2018 that Very had charged  her interest. 
She complained to Very but they explained  that the payments shed been making had been 
directed towards  her shopping account with them and not towards  her BNPL  account.  So the 
debt hadnt reduced and they therefore  thought  the interest had been charged  correctly.
Mrs L was disappointed with their response. She explained that when she used the app to 
make payments she was faced with three options.  She could:
1. make a minimum payment 
2. take 3 payment amount
3. other  amount
She said she always selected option 3. and paid an amount more than the additional  
payment.
Our adjudicator noted that these  options referred  to Mrs Ls shopping account but that there 
was an option  on the payment screens for her to enter her BNPL account, where she could 
have made  payments to reduce her balance. So he didnt think Very had been wrong to 
charge interest  as it was clear Mrs L had made  payments to her shopping account and not 
her BNPL  account.
But Mrs L disagreed  with him and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs L and I can see this has been a frustrating incident  for her but 
Im afraid I dont think Very have  done  anything wrong. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN82474912Mrs Ls shopping account was separate to her BNPL account. Ive reviewed the screenshots 
that have been provided  and Im persuaded that there would have been options  for her to 
enter her BNPL account and to make a payment  towards it. But its clear that the payments 
Mrs L made were towards her shopping account instead.
I can understand Mrs Ls annoyance with the issue.  I have no doubt that she wanted to clear 
her BNPL  balance but I dont think it would be fair to suggest  Very did anything  wrong 
because:
Im satisfied its app and online screens  provided Mrs L with clear  navigation  tools 
that she could  use to pay off the appropriate balance. 
Mrs L was provided with regular BNPL statements that showed her balance  and 
wouldve highlighted no payments were being  received
I think its reasonable to say its the account  holders responsibility  to make payments 
towards the right account
 So Im not asking Very to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8247491