K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Global Kapital Group  Ltd (trading  as myKredit) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr G was given five loans  by myKredit between June 2017 and May 2018.  Some  of the 
loans were scheduled to be repaid in monthly instalments. Mr G appears to have faced 
some problems repaying his final loan and a balance remained outstanding when he made  
his complaint. A summary  of Mr Gs borrowing from myKredit is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 07/06/2017 25/09/2017 £ 200
2 17/10/2017 15/11/2017 £ 200
3 04/01/2018 24/02/2018 £ 200
4 24/02/2018 14/05/2018 £ 200
5 22/05/2018 - £ 200
Mr Gs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think it had been  
reasonable for myKredit to give any of the loans to Mr G. So she asked myKredit to pay 
Mr G some compensation.
MyKredit didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr G accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MyKredit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that myKredit  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN80516992the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that myKredit was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  
or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make  their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
MyKredit has told us about the checks it did before  lending to Mr G. MyKredit  asked  Mr G for 
copies of his bank statements. It says that it performed some analysis on the transactions 
that were shown on Mr Gs bank statements to form a picture  of his income and expenditure. 
And myKredit says it checked  Mr Gs credit  file. I havent seen the results of the credit  
checks that were done. But looking at a copy Mr G has sent us of his credit file I can see that 
by the time he started borrowing from myKredit he was already facing problems repaying 
other lenders.
But the information a consumer might  see, when they request a copy  of their credit file, 
might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small portion of 
the credit  file, or some  data might  be missing or anonymised, or the data might not be up to 
date. So, I cant be sure that myKredits checks would have shown the problems that Mr G 
was starting to face in managing his money.
Since myKredit had access to the full transaction history on Mr Gs bank statements it was in 
an excellent position to decide  whether  it should lend to Mr G. I too have looked  at the 
information myKredit would have seen on those  statements. And having  done so I dont think 
any of the loans should have been agreed.
It is clear from Mr Gs bank statements in the period leading up to his first loan that he was 
spending significant amounts each month on gambling transactions. And Mr G was funding 
some of that gambling  spending by borrowing from a number of other short term lenders. So 
I think it should have  been clear to myKredit that Mr G was having significant problems 
Ref: DRN80516993managing his money and that it was unlikely he would be able to repay  any further borrowing 
in a sustainable manner.
And over the whole time that Mr G was borrowing from myKredit his situation  didnt  improve. 
His bank statements show that he continued  to gamble heavily. And they show  that he 
funded that expenditure  by continuing  to borrow from several short term lenders. So I dont 
think it was reasonable  for myKredit to give any of the loans to Mr G.
Looking at the overall pattern of myKredits lending history with Mr G I think  by loan 4 the 
lender should  also reasonably have seen from that history that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so myKredit should  have realised that it shouldnt  
provide further  loans  for that reason too.
I say this because:
By the time Mr G asked for loan 4 hed been borrowing from myKredit  for a lengthy 
period and he wasnt making  any inroads  to the amount  he owed the lender. By then 
Mr G had paid a considerable amount of interest to myKredit  to effectively service a 
debt over an extended period.
Mr G took loan 4 on the day that hed repaid loan 3. And he took loan 5 just a few 
days after repaying loan 4. So myKredit ought  to have realised it was more  likely than 
not Mr G was having to borrow  further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan 
was leaving in his finances and that Mr Gs indebtedness was increasing  
unsustainably.
I think that Mr G lost out because myKredit  continued to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of his borrowing relationship  with myKredit was 
likely to have had negative implications on Mr Gs ability to access mainstream credit 
and so kept him in the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Gs complaint about  all the loans he was given by myKredit. MyKredit 
needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think myKredit should have agreed to give Mr G any of the loans. So for each of the 
loans myKredit should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr G on the loans.  
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to loans  1 to 3, 
and loan 5 until it is fully repaid.
The number of loans  taken from loan 4 onwards means any information recorded  about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loan 4, and loan 5 when it has been fully repaid, 
should be removed  from Mr Gs credit  file.
Ref: DRN80516994*HM Revenue & Customs requires myKredit  to take off tax from this interest. MyKredit must  
give Mr G a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr G still owes myKredit any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan, 
myKredit may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear,  that 
outstanding balance should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr G has made on that loan as though  they were applied  against 
the principal sum borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint and direct Global Kapital Group Ltd to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8051699