K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service and 
damage in connection with a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
Mrs R had British Gas insurance including plumbing and drainage cover.  Where  I refer to 
British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include its associated  
plumbing and drainage  company and others  insofar as I hold that insurance company 
responsible for their actions.
Mrs R reported a water leak and on 9 December 2018 British Gas replaced the ball valve  in 
her cold water storage  tank.
But on about  18 December 2018 Mrs R reported more serious leaking. British  Gas said the 
tank had a hole in the bottom. Mrs R complained that this was the responsibility  of British 
Gas. She claimed on her home  insurance  for the water damage.
On 27 December 2018 British Gas replaced the tank. But there was more leaking  and on 7 
February 2019 British  Gas unblocked  a blocked overflow pipe. 
Mrs R said that her home insurer charged  three  policy excesses each of £599.00 for three 
separate claims. She complained that British Gas should reimburse  her.
In its final response dated 2 April 2019, British Gas declined to reimburse  Mrs R but it 
offered £150.00  for poor service, multiple visits and delay.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. He didnt think  
that it was certain  that British Gas caused  damage and the need  to claim. But he thought it 
more than likely that British Gas hadnt identified the issue in its entirety and had been 
responsible for an oversight on 9 December  2018.
He recommended that British Gas should  pay Mrs R a further £350.00 bringing the total 
compensation to £500.00. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and to British  Gas on 21 April 2020.  I summarise my findings:
I wasnt persuaded that  by getting something  wrong during its visits in December 
2018 - British Gas caused any of the water damage that Mrs R suffered. Therefore I 
didnt find it fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to compensate Mrs R for the 
uninsured losses  of the policy excesses  and the inconvenience associated with the 
escapes of water.
British Gas acknowledged poor service,  multiple visits and delay in dealing with the 
complaint. I didnt doubt that these shortcomings caused extra distress and 
Ref: DRN88629432inconvenience to Mrs R at an already  difficult time for her. British Gas offered 
£150.00. Id concluded that £150.00  is the fair amount.  
Subject to any further information from Mrs R or from British Gas, my provisional  decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Mrs R disagrees  with the provisional decision.  She doesn't think the whole complaint has 
been considered,  and doesn't think it is very fair the ombudsman has decided that no further 
compensation is warranted. Mrs R points to the multiple call-outs  and misdiagnosis by British 
Gas that caused  further damage  to her home. She has said that the information currently  on 
file should show  that British Gas were in the wrong and they should  increase the 
compensation offered to be fair to her circumstances.
British Gas acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision but hasnt commented on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The British  Gas policy had the following exclusion:
Any other loss or damage
Were not responsible for any loss of or damage  to, or cleaning of property, furniture  
or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking  or failing unless we 
caused it. For example  damage caused by water leaks.
So the policy  said that British Gas wasnt responsible for water damage  unless it caused 
such damage.
A cold water storage tank is often  located in a roof space. Typically the tank has a water inlet 
controlled by a floating ball valve that closes when the water in the tank reaches a maximum 
level. That level is usually just below the level of an overflow pipe. So if the ball valve fails to 
close when the water reaches the maximum level, water will escape down the overflow pipe.
Mrs R already had a leak when she contacted British Gas in early December 2018. Thats 
why she contacted British Gas.  So I cant hold British  Gas responsible for water damage that 
occurred before 9 December 2018.  
Our investigator thought that British  Gas made an oversight on 9 December. And I accept 
that there  was further water damage on about 18 December before British  Gas replaced the 
tank on about 27 December 2018. 
Mrs R suggested British  Gas was responsible for the hole. But theres not enough evidence 
for me to say whether  there was a hole in the tank before  9 December, on 9 December  or 
after 9 December 2018. I dont find it likely that changing the ball valve would involve any 
interference with  or damage to - the base of the tank. 
So I dont  find that British Gas caused  the water  damage on about  18 December 2018.
Ref: DRN88629433There was yet further leaking before British Gas unblocked the overflow pipe on about  7 
February 2019. Mrs R says that on that visit the engineer rang the previous engineer  and 
asked why he hadnt checked  the waste pipe.
But Mrs R hasnt told us the response to that. Nor has she told us what  was blocking the 
overflow pipe. She hasnt  told us whether it was debris or perhaps  - at that time of year - a 
blockage of ice.
Therefore Im not persuaded that  by getting  something wrong  during its visits in December 
2018 - British Gas caused any of the water damage that Mrs R suffered. Therefore I dont 
find it fair and reasonable to direct British Gas to compensate Mrs R for the uninsured losses  
of the policy  excesses and the inconvenience  associated with the escapes of water.
British Gas hasnt  fully explained the delay between 18 and 27 December 2018. And after 
the complaint  on about 19 December 2018  British  Gas should have provided a final 
response within eight  weeks, that is by about  mid-January 2019.  But it didnt do so until 2 
April 2019. 
Its final response acknowledged poor service, multiple visits and delay in dealing with the 
complaint. I dont doubt that these shortcomings caused extra distress and inconvenience to 
Mrs R at an already difficult time for her.
British Gas offered  £150.00 and said it was sending Mrs R a cheque for that amount. I think  
she wouldve told us if she hadnt received  that cheque and paid it in. So I find that she did.
Ive considered how much I wouldve directed British Gas to pay if it hadnt made that offer. I 
conclude that £150.00 is the fair amount. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British 
Gas to pay Mrs R any more  or to do anything  further in response  to her this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything further in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8862943