K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Parks of Hamilton (Holdings)  Limited misrepresented  the terms of his 
conditional sale agreement for which it acted as credit broker. He wants  compensation for 
his loss.
background
Mr P tells us that during  early 2018 he was in negotiations with Parks in respect  of a high 
value motor vehicle  he wished to acquire. He says that a deal was agreed and that as part of 
the overall transaction he was to part-exchange  his present vehicle and use the proceeds as 
a deposit on the finance agreement. Mr P states  that he agreed a part-exchange value of 
£98,000 for his own vehicle  and this left just under  £72,000 to be financed. A few days 
before he was due to collect  the vehicle, he says he received an email  from Parks with some  
amended figures  relating to the finance agreement. Mr P advises that these figures  showed  
the overall figure to swop and refinance remained the same.  But because of the way the 
cost price of the new vehicle had been  restructured the part-exchange allowance for his own 
vehicle had been reduced to £85,000.  Mr P says he was assured  it made  no difference to 
the agreement. Some  time later due to an irregularity about the description of the vehicle he 
says the agreement was terminated and he was entitled to the refund of his deposit. But 
instead of the £98,000  hed expected he said that only £85,000 was refunded. Mr P believes  
Parks misrepresented the terms of the agreement  and that he should  also be refunded  the 
£13,000 difference. To prove this he confirms he provided a valuation  to show  his own 
vehicle had been worth  at least  £98,000.
Parks told us that the documents which related  to the deal and the finance  agreement 
showed the part-exchange price had been  £85,000.  And that Mr P had indicated hed been 
made aware  of any changes and had agreed  to them.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said hed seen 
documentation supplied  by Mr P which showed  a part-exchange value of £98,000.  But he 
felt this had been changed  later as a different  used  vehicle  order form was supplied.  And this 
form showed a part-exchange figure of £85,000.  In addition, he found that the advance 
payment on the finance agreement was shown as £85,000. And this had been  signed by Mr 
P. He said email exchanges between Mr P also demonstrated he knew  of the different 
figures.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome and said he thought the facts were  black  and white to 
find in his favour. As its not been possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that feelings are running  high in this matter.  And thereve been  suggestions  from 
both parties that some  documents have been improperly altered. Ive taken note of what the 
parties have told me but this service  doesnt directly investigate such allegations. As it 
happens I dont  think whats  been alleged makes  any difference  to my final decision.  So I 
shant be making any findings directly  about  this aspect.
Ref: DRN82238922Put simply, Mr Ps complaint amounts to an allegation of misrepresentation. A 
misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. But a misrepresentation 
can also occur in limited circumstances where  there  is a material omission. An example of 
this might be in the case of a half truth where facts are true as far as they go but dont 
reveal the whole  truth.
Ive been provided  with a substantial amount of information by the parties and if I dont refer 
to each item individually its not that I havent  taken it on board. Its simply I dont need to 
refer to it separately in order to reach  my decision. Where information  is unclear or 
contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my conclusions  on the balance of probabilities.  
That is, what I think is most likely  to have happened  in light of the available  evidence and the 
wider surrounding  circumstances.
I think the relevant  starting point must be the copy of a document which is headed
 Used  Vehicle Sales Order.  It appears  to be dated  11 February 2018 with the time shown 
as 11.27. Each party has supplied what they say is a copy of this document.  Mr P has 
supplied me with a copy which appears  to show his signature.  He suggests this is evidence  
of a legally  binding contract. Parks has supplied a copy which does not show Mr Ps 
signature. And it says this document was never  acted upon.  I cant  account for this 
difference. But as it doesnt directly affect  my final decision I dont think I need  to take that 
issue any further. Ill explain why.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Its not for me to say if any 
document amounts to a legally binding contract. Only a court can do that.
The document shows the part-exchange price of Mr Ps vehicle as £98,000. But it also 
indicates that the purchaser of the new vehicle is Mr Ps limited  company. Limited  
companies have  separate legal entities and therefore  the price  quoted  seems  to have been 
made to the company as opposed to Mr P in his personal capacity. 
A separate  document dated  11 February  2018 and headed Used  Vehicles Sales Order 
also appears to bear Mr Ps signature. But this document gives the part-exchange value of 
the same  vehicle as £85,000. And this document states the purchaser to be Mr P (not his 
company). And its this document which appears to form the basis  on which the hire 
purchase agreement  was completed in Mr Ps name.
I should explain that if the financial agreement  had been taken out in Mr Ps company name 
this service would  not have had jurisdiction to look at the complaint.
Ive also seen some email exchanges between Mr P and Parks  sales  agent. And these 
show that on 14 February 2018 when Mr P became aware of the changes.  He wrote:
Just looked at the finance document and noticed  the huge write  back.
 Will you be invoicing the car- as agreed or wanting  to write it back  as
per the finance  document? This makes a huge difference to the VAT.
The agent  replied:
We will be invoicing the vehicle as per the figures on the finance agreement.
To which Mr P responded:
Ref: DRN82238923Re you changing the figures. Ok I understand, please note that this means that there  will be 
a huge difference in the VAT reclaimable to me as you have decided to change the figures.  I 
have signed the agreement and returned  it to you.
Its not for me to speculate about the reasons for the changes in the figures. What I observe 
is that the documents show that the original price  of the vehicle Mr P was acquiring  has been 
reduced. And at the same time the valuation of the vehicle he was exchanging was reduced  
by a similar figure. This seems  to result in a VAT figure difference of just over £2,000  
between the two documents.
In order for a misrepresentation to occur  a consumer has to be induced into an agreement  
by a false statement. Put another  way, if the consumer knows a statement is false but still 
goes ahead then no misrepresentation  occurs.
Mr P was aware of the alterations to the figures and the fact that on the face of the vehicle 
order form the valuation  of his vehicle had been  changed to £85,000.  Why he accepted this - 
without apparent objection - Im not sure.  If Mr P thought the value of his exchange  vehicle 
was being artificially  reduced he had the chance  to say so. Because  the swop cost wasnt 
affected he may not have given any thought to potential difficulties that might be created. But  
I dont think there was a misrepresentation as he signed the agreement knowing of the 
figures.
I dont think its plausible  for him to say he was forced into signing the agreement. There  
were a number of days between the alterations to the figures being notified and the actual 
signing of the agreement.  I accept  that it wouldve meant a long, wasted journey if Mr P had 
changed his mind when collecting the vehicle. But I dont think  that alters things.
In summary,  I find that Mr P knew about  the change of part-exchange value on the relevant 
documents prior to entering the agreement. He indicated he understood the effect  of this. 
Yet he went  ahead and signed the agreement. In those circumstances I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to say the agreement had been misrepresented.  Accordingly, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8223892