K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy because their let property insurer  Liverpool Victoria Insurance  
Company Limited  (LV) avoided their policy  (treated  it as though it had never existed)  when 
they told it theyd  made  a mistake a few years  ago and not told it about a limited  company 
Mr F was linked to having been liquidated.
background
Mr and Mrs F had cover  with LV. In 2013  a company Mr F was a director of went into 
liquidation. At renewal  of the LV policy in 2014,  LV asked Mr and Mrs F to confirm  that:
Neither I nor any directors or partners in our business as property owners or in the name of 
any other business in which any of us had an interest have ever:-
 been officers of a company that has been  declared insolvent, or had a receiver  or liquidator 
appointed, or entered into arrangements with creditors in accordance with the Insolvency Act 
1986.
Mr and Mrs F didnt  tell it of the recent liquidation. They  thought all insurers, when offering 
cover to individuals, only wanted to be told about  personal financial matters. But in 2018 
Mr and Mrs F realised  they should have  told LV, so they called to update it. LV checked  its 
underwriting criteria and told Mr and Mrs F it was avoiding the cover. But it accepted  that a 
mistake had been made so reimbursed all the premiums back  to 2014.
Mr and Mrs F felt this was unfair. They  said another of their insurers had agreed  to rescind 
the avoidance it had initially implemented when being advised of the 2013 liquidation. They 
felt if it could take that approach so, reasonably,  should LV. When LV wasnt  prepared to 
change its position  Mr and Mrs F complained to us.
Our investigator felt LV had acted fairly,  and in line with relevant  legislation. He didnt uphold  
the complaint.
Mr and Mrs F were  disappointed. They said theyd only tried to be honest  with LV and it now 
felt as though  they were being  penalised  for this. They said theyd rather LV kept their 
premiums and rescinded the avoidance which reasonably it should be able to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this is a frustrating and upsetting position for Mr and Mrs F to be in. 
However, LV has acted  as it is allowed to do. Mr and Mrs F made a mistake  when  they 
assumed what it was LV wanted to know. But LV did ask a clear question  of them and they 
didnt take reasonable care to answer it correctly (because they made an assumption about 
what it was they were being asked). And LV has shown  that if it had been given the correct 
information it wouldnt have offered  them cover. So their careless act misled  LV into offering 
the policy to them. That means it can now avoid that policy.
I know there is no claim involved. Or at least not at this time. But some claims and/or 
damage that might give rise to a claim can occur or become apparent  at a later date. So 
Ref: DRN85531202I can understand why LV isnt prepared  to overlook the misrepresentation and just allow  the 
policy to end. 
It isnt clear why Mr and Mrs Fs other insurer was prepared to rescind the avoidance. It may 
be that it had asked a different question, or couldnt  show that a clear question  had been 
asked. Or it may just feel inclined to take this action  on the basis the risk to it is limited. LV 
isnt obliged to see things in the same way or to take the same  action. 
The policy was in joint names. Whilst I appreciate only Mr F was linked to the company that 
had financial  difficulties,  Mrs F was jointly responsible for not making  any misrepresentations 
to LV. But LV was misled,  albeit due to a genuine mistake in understanding.  Unfortunately,  
this means the avoidance applies equally to both Mr and Mrs F. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.   I dont make any award against Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance 
Company Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8553120