K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains Alliance  Trust  Savings Limited (ATSL) unfairly applied a charge to his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).  He would  like this charge refunded.
background
Mr C purchased some shares  in Company C in February 2014, as part of his SIPP  portfolio. 
In August  2017,  he noticed a charge of £450  had been applied to his account. When  he 
queried this, he was told this was a supplementary charge that had been applied correctly,  
as these shares were  non-standard  investments.
Mr C maintains he wasnt aware this supplementary  charge would be made to this 
investment and once  he became aware, he promptly sold his holding  as the value of the 
shareholdings didnt warrant retaining them if such a significant charge  would  be made.
After selling, the shares Mr C found  his SIPP had been charged a further £450 in August 
2018. He complained to ATSL about  both charges. After some consideration, he says ATSL  
agreed they made an error with the second charge  and refunded  it. They also gave Mr C 
£25 for the trouble and upset this matter had caused  him. 
ATSL say the supplementary charge was introduced in May 2017, and Mr C would have 
been sent a mailing advising him of this. They maintain the charge  was applied correctly  in 
August 2017 and didnt agree to refund it.
Mr C remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator looked 
into matters for him. He agreed the supplementary  charge  was applicable on non-standard 
investments but he wasnt satisfied  ATSL  had properly notified Mr C it was relevant to the 
shareholdings he held. On balance, he thought as Mr C  had held his shares  since  2014 
without charge and ATSL  couldnt  provide  a copy of the letter  they say they sent Mr C it 
wasnt fair or reasonable to apply it. He asked ATSL to refund the charge.
ATSL disagreed. They say the charge was applicable and Mr C was notified. They point to a 
comment Mr C made  about not recollecting receiving the notification not being the same as 
not receiving it. They  asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have looked at all the information from 
both parties afresh.  Having done  so Ive reached  the same conclusion  as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
ATSL have provided  a generic copy of the letter  they sent to customers explaining  the new 
charging structure, it is dated May 2017  and includes the new supplementary charges that 
apply to non-standard investments.
Mr C has complained about two supplementary charges, one made in August 2017  and the 
other in August 2018, after he sold the shares  this charge applied to. ATSL  has resolved Mr 
Ref: DRN82498002Cs complaint concerning  the second  charge  to his satisfaction but the earlier supplementary 
charge applied in August 2017 remains in contention.
A business has the right to amend or alter its charging structure. The supplementary charge 
in question is also a flat rate, its not variable  and so would be the same no matter  how large 
or small  Mr Cs holdings  were. So from the information ATSL have provided the charge  
appears to correct. ATSL have confirmed the charge is £375 + VAT applied in August each 
year.
The question is whether Mr C was aware or ought reasonably to be aware  the 
supplementary charge would  apply  to him. Mr C purchased  the shares in Company C in 
February 2014, more  than 3 years before the introduction of the charges. A supplementary  
charge hadnt  been made before and so he wouldnt have had any reason  to anticipate one 
would be made  in the future. 
Ive also looked  at Mr Cs annual statements. They reflect each year detailing investments 
and transactions  from April of one year to April the next. So the annual  statement showing 
the August  2017 charge  was detailed in the statement dated 16 July 2018  showing 
transactions from April 2017 to April 2018.  Mr C maintains thats when he became  aware  of 
the charge and promptly sold his holdings in Company C on 27 July 2018,  as he didnt  feel 
the value of this holding  warranted a £450  annual charge.
ATSL have been  unable to provide a copy of the letter they say they sent to Mr C, instead 
they have provided  a generic template. Mr C has explained he didnt receive  this letter,  had 
he done so he would  have sold his shares earlier as there was no financial advantage to 
retaining his holdings in these shares if an annual fee of £450 were  applied.
On balance, Im not persuaded  Mr C did receive the charges notification letter. Mr C says he 
only became aware of the charges whilst completing some year-end reconciliation; he 
queried it with ATSL  and then sold his shares  to avoid a future charge. From what Ive seen  
Mr C seems to keep  a close eye on his investments and so I think it more  likely than not had 
he received the notification  of these charges he would have taken the same actions earlier 
as he disagreed with amount of the charge given the value of his holdings.
ATSL have been  asked to provide a copy of the letter they say was sent to Mr C but have 
been unable  to do so, they have provided instead a generic  template.  Im afraid I dont think  
this is sufficient to say it was sent to Mr C. Ive considered ATSLs  assertion that Mr C has 
merely said he had no recollection and that differs from not receiving it but I think  that is a 
question of interpretation. I agree its Mr Cs responsibility to ensure hes read and 
understands any documentation sent from ATSL but hes not able to do that if didnt  receive 
it in the first place.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given Im upholding Mr Cs complaint and I direct Alliance Trust 
Savings Limited  to:
refund  the £450 charge to Mr C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Ref: DRN82498003Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8249800