K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Trusted Cash Limited, trading as Trusted  Quid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
I sent both parties  my provisional  findings  on this complaint on 25 January 2019. A copy  is 
attached and it forms part of this final decision.  The full background to the complaint is set 
out in my provisional  decision, so I wont reiterate  it here.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was planning to uphold  the complaint in part and 
asked Mr A and Trusted Quid to let me know  if they had anything to add.
Trusted Quid accepted my provisional decision. Mr A sent some further information for me to 
consider and said:
during his loans  with Trusted Quid he had between five and ten other  payday  loans 
to pay at the end of the month,  causing him a lot of stress
he had to borrow from multiple lenders to repay another  lenders
he was struggling  to pay his instalments and sometimes payments were returned  
from his bank
 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Ive considered the points made  by Mr A  and can confirm  that these were  issues  I also 
considered in my provisional decision.  But my final decision is the same as my provisional  
decision. Ill explain why.
I can see from the bank  statements provided by Mr A that there were times he had 
outstanding loans with other lenders. But it doesnt seem that he told Trusted Quid about  
these when he applied  to it.
To uphold  his complaint about  loans  1-3 Id need to be satisfied that Trusted  Quid  was both 
aware of these other loans and that those other loans  ought to have caused Trusted Quid  to 
realise Mr A couldnt afford new credit commitments. And while  Ive seen evidence  that Mr A 
was at times  borrowing from a number  of other  lenders,  I think it was often the case  that 
Mr A would settle many of these loans shortly  before  applying  to Trusted Quid. For example, 
I can see that towards the end of July 2017 Mr A settled or made payments towards  a large  
number of other short-term debts  before  applying  for his third Trusted  Quid  loan. He also 
took out new loans with another  lender  at around  the same time as applying for loan 3. 
This means  its not clear what amounts (if anything)  were actually still outstanding on the 
days Mr A applied  for the first three loans. But given the small size of the instalments for the 
Trusted Quid loans,  I dont think its likely the business wouldve seen enough  information  
from credit  checks  to think loans 1-3 were unaffordable.
Trusted Quid would therefore have been  more reliant on what Mr A told it and the 
information he provided suggested loans  1-3 were affordable. This means Im not upholding 
the complaint  about loans 1-3.
Ref: DRN87995832Trusted Quid agreed with my proposals about loan 4, so Ive reached the same outcome  on 
that loan for the same reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. Trusted  Cash Limited must put things right by taking the steps 
set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN87995833COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A says Trusted Cash Limited, trading as Trusted Quid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr A had four loans with Trusted Quid. Each loan had a maximum term of six months. Ive 
summarised some  of the information Trusted Quid provided about  the loans below. Some  figures may 
be rounded, or approximate.
Loan  1: for £250 with monthly repayments of £71, commencing 12 November 2016 and 
settled 23 December 2016
Loan  2: for £300, with monthly repayments of £87, commencing 7 February 2017 and settled  
28 July 2017
Loan  3: for £550, with monthly repayments of £165, commencing 31 July 2017 and settled 28 
December 2017
Loan  4: for £250, with monthly repayments of £71, commencing 11 January 2018  and settled  
29 June 2018
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account the law, good industry  practice and any 
relevant regulations at the time.
Relevant regulations and guidance included  the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Consumer Credit 
sourcebook (CONC). CONC contained rules  and guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
Among other things, CONC said lenders should  carry out affordability checks which  are proportionate 
in the circumstances  of the loan. The regulations also said repayments should  be sustainable 
(i.e. repayable  from the borrowers income or savings) and that lenders shouldnt  allow a borrower to 
enter into consecutive credit agreements where it would  be unsustainable to do so.
From everything Ive seen,  I think the checks Trusted Quid carried out were  proportionate in the 
circumstances of loans one to three. Trusted Quid asked Mr A a reasonably comprehensive  set of 
questions about his income and outgoings which  led it to find the loan repayments were between 16% 
and 45% of his disposable  income.  I think it was reasonable for Trusted Quid to rely on the 
information Mr A provided   I dont  think the credit checks it carried  out wouldve undermined this 
information.
Trusted Quid  carried out the same checks for loan four  Mr A said at this time his net monthly 
income was £1,500.  His outgoings are recorded as £415 for rent, £200 for housekeeping and £200 for 
credit card repayments. Trusted  Quid recorded that Mr A had no other short-term loans  to repay.
As with loans one to three, Trusted Quid carried out a credit  check. But its been unable to provide  the 
details from this check. Ive therefore considered a credit report (from the same credit reference 
agency) provided by Mr A, to help me decide what Trusted Quid would likely have seen.
From this credit report I can see that Mr A had a large  number of short-term loans outstanding  in 
January 2018, most of which had been  opened between the third and fourth  loans he had with 
Trusted Quid. Overall,  Mr A had ten other outstanding short-term loans  in January 2018. All of these 
loans were showing  adverse  information in the months leading up to and including January 2018  
with an arrangement to pay in place for each of the ten loans.
Ref: DRN87995834I think  its likely this information wouldve been available  to Trusted Quid  from a credit check. And 
I think  it signifies a significant deterioration  in Mr As financial circumstances, which  appears to have 
occurred at some point  between the third and fourth Trusted  Quid loans.
In the circumstances,  I dont think it was right for Trusted Quid to approve loan four. I accept that it 
operates in a market where many consumers will have adverse credit histories.  But the adverse 
information on Mr As report wasnt  historic   it suggested  a recent change  in his circumstances  had 
caused him to be unable to meet his contractual obligations on a large number of short-term loans.  In 
the circumstances, I think Trusted Quid ought reasonably  to have realised  further lending was only 
likely to further contribute to Mr As problems and was unlikely  to be sustainable at this time.
For these  reasons, Im planning on upholding Mr As complaint  about the fourth loan 
Trusted Quid  approved.
what Trusted  Quid needs to do to put things  right
I plan to tell Trusted Quid to:
refund the interest and charges Mr A paid on the fourth  loan
add to the above  8% simple interest from when the interest and charges were paid until the 
date of settlement
remove adverse  information  about  this loan from Mr As credit history
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Trusted Quid to take off tax from this interest.  Trusted Quid must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
I plan to uphold the complaint in part and to tell Trusted Cash Limited  to put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Ref: DRN8799583