K820x#14complaint
Mr I complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKIs) handling of a claim under his buildings  
insurance policy.
background
Mr I has an insurance  policy with UKI which covers damage to his home.  
In 2017, he made two claims to UKI after separate water leaks in his shower room and his 
dining room.
Mr I says UKI were responsible for unnecessary delays in appointing a contractor to carry 
out repairs  and in the contractors completing the work. At the time of Mr Is complaint to us 
in May 2018  the work was still on-going. He says these delays led to his house becoming 
mouldy and many of the contents  being  damaged.
Mr I said being made  to submit two separate claims for the two leaks led to confusion  and 
delay.
Mr I says the contractors appointed  by UKI were  abusive and bullying towards his wife and 
himself. And he says they caused further  damage to his property  when carrying out 
inspections and/or repairs.
He says communications between UKI and himself  and between  the contractors and 
himself - have been poor. And that the contractors breached data protection legislation by 
disclosing details of his claim  to his representative.
Mr I also says UKI didnt offer like-for-like replacement of his tiles and wallpaper.
And he says UKI havent provided  him with complete information about the experts opinions 
on what repairs were required.
During the course of his claims, Mr I made  six separate complaints to UKI. They admitted 
the service theyd provided wasnt at the level theyd  expect  and that there were some 
avoidable delays  and communication problems. They  gave Mr I around £550 compensation 
in total for his trouble  and upset.
Mr I wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. She thought the compensation UKI 
awarded Mr I was fair and reasonable given  the failings in their handling  of Mr Is claims.
Mr I disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has pointed out we can only look at issues  that Mr I complained  about to 
UKI. He brought his complaint to us (after UKI had looked into it) in May 2018, so in this 
decision I cant look at anything thats  happened since then. 
Ref: DRN80921212I know Mr I says his complaint(s) to UKI are on-going and theyve continued to correspond 
with him about  the issues hes raised.  Whilst that may be the case, the FCA rules were  
governed by only allow us to look into issues Mr I raised with UKI in his complaints to them 
before he then brought the complaint to us. So, by definition, we cant  look at issues  arising 
since Mr I complained to us (at the latest).
The circumstances in this case  are complicated  by the fact the claim was still being handled 
 and repairs still being carried out by UKIs  contractors  up to and beyond May 2018.  If 
Mr I isnt happy with whats happened  since then, hes entitled  to make a further  complaint  to 
UKI, allowing them a chance to respond to his further complaint  points.  
Mr I has raised  a large number of complaint  points  with UKI and with us. Ill deal with them  
under separate headings below. 
Initial delays 
When he made his first claim, Mr I submitted  an estimate for repairs.  UKI thought  this was 
unreasonably high and agreed with Mr I theyd appoint their own contractor. There  were 
avoidable delays  in appointing a contractor  which amounted to around  two to three weeks.
There were further delays because the contractor couldnt begin the work immediately, but I 
cant hold UKI responsible  for that. Theyd already been told their first choice of contractor 
couldnt carry out the work. Mr I lives in a very small town in a relatively remote location. Its 
not unreasonable in that context to suggest that a reasonably short  delay with the second 
contractor was the best available option.  
UKI have  admitted their failings, which I dont need to go into in detail here.  A part of the 
compensation already provided  to Mr I is to cover these delays  and Im satisfied thats  
adequate given the length of the delays.
Poor communication
UKI have  also admitted  there were  failings in their communication with Mr I. Again, I neednt 
go into the detail,  but Im satisfied Mr I has been  adequately compensated. 
There is some mitigation in that Mr I has hearing  problems and prefers to communicate by 
email but UKI didnt  have an email address for him at first.
Mr I says that during  the handling  of the claim, UKI and/or their contractors havent always 
responded to his communications within their own service standard.  
It does appear that some  responses were  late  and in some cases, Mr I didnt  get a 
response. But I have  to take into account  the very large number of emails Mr I sent to the 
contractors and/or UKI  and the length  of many of them. 
It seems  to me the rate and speed  of response hasnt been wholly unreasonable  in that 
context. And fundamentally Mr I has been kept informed  about how his claim has been 
handled and the repairs carried out.
Ref: DRN80921213Data breach
Mr I appears to have agreed  that some communications could be carried out through  his 
representative. But he says the contractors contacted  his representative directly in a way he 
hadnt authorised.  
Mr I has given two different dates on which he alleges this communication took place, but 
UKIs contractor has been unable to trace any call made on those dates. Its not clear what  
else UKI could reasonably  have done  to investigate this aspect of Mr Is complaint.
Its also not clear whether  Mr I is saying  that any personal data relating to him was disclosed 
inappropriately during the alleged call.
If he is saying that - and he wishes to pursue  this matter further - its more appropriate for 
Mr I to do so through the Information  Commissioners Office, who deal with complaints about 
data breaches.
Two separate claims
In his initial complaint  to us, Mr I appeared to object to having  to make two separate  claims 
for water leaks from his shower and from a freezer in his dining room. 
These were  two separate   and entirely unrelated  leaks. Its not unreasonable  for UKI to 
want to treat them as two separate claims,  which ensures that the reality  of the situation is 
reflected in their records. 
Theres nothing unusual  about this  its standard industry  practice. So, I cant  conclude  that 
UKI have  acted in any way unfairly or unreasonably in asking Mr I to submit  two claims for 
the two separate and unrelated insured events.
More recently, Mr I has said he didnt object to having to submit two claims, but he felt he 
was given confusing  information about how the two matters would be handled   and he feels  
UKI confused things  and caused delays.
I dont think we have  any evidence that this issue specifically caused any delay in the repairs  
being carried out. If they did  and if communication about how the claims were to be 
handled was poor,  as Mr I suggests  then, as I say above, Mr I has in my view been 
adequately compensated  by UKI for the delays and poor communication in UKIs handling of 
his claims.
Overall delays in completion of repairs
Mr Is house needed  fundamental  and far-reaching drying  out and repairs. That will inevitably 
take some  time. This hasnt been  helped by the change  in contractor part-way through  the 
repairs. This was the result of Mr I asking that the first contractors be removed from the job.
UKIs handling of the claim was also complicated by the fact that experts inspections 
showed that the house was suffering from a serious  damp problem before the leaks from the 
shower and the freezer. Im very much aware that Mr I disputes  this, but in my view its not 
unreasonable for UKI to take the word of the expert   at least unless and until theres a 
further expert report which disagrees  with the first.
Ref: DRN80921214Damage from that underlying damp problem  which the expert  says was caused by gradual 
ingress of water through  defective ventilation  would not be covered by Mr Is policy.
UKI inevitably took some time in trying  to disentangle the various causes of the damage to 
Mr Is property and to decide whether to cover the damage as a whole. Thats not entirely  
surprising in a complex case like this.
In the final analysis, UKI decided they would continue with the repairs   and essentially put 
right the damage  to Mr Is property whatever the cause. In that context, it would be difficult 
for me to conclude  that UKI have treated Mr I unfairly in the way theyve handled  the claim. 
Much of the delay is on balance  most  likely to have been caused by the extent of the overall 
and long-standing damage and/or  UKI taking time to determine - with the help of their 
experts and their contractors - how that damage could properly be addressed.
Mr I has been compensated for avoidable  delays  and Im satisfied thats sufficient.  Ive also 
taken into account  the fact that UKI have agreed to cover a claim for Mr Is contents, which  
he says have been damaged by mould  due to the delays.  
Damage allegedly caused by contractors
Mr I says that during  various visits to his property UKIs contractors damaged his shower 
room boiler, a stop cock in his kitchen  (causing  a further leak of water),  tiles, and a damp-
proof membrane under his floor.  Ill deal with each of these in that order
The boiler
Mr I says on one visit, the contractors cut off the water supply to the shower  room  in order to 
carry out some repairs. He says they drained  the boiler but left it switched on  which  
inevitably broke it given  there was no water to heat. 
The contractors say they wouldnt have needed  to do anything  to the boiler  to carry out the 
repairs. So, whilst they did cut off the water supply, they didnt drain  the boiler  and werent 
responsible for whether it was on or off.
Mr I says it would be impossible to carry out the repairs  without draining the system  
altogether  including the boiler.
Its impossible  for me at this point to establish  exactly what happened  with Mr Is boiler. But 
UKI have  provided  a record of a conversation between their loss adjuster and Mr I at the 
outset of the claim. This suggests Mr I told the loss adjuster the boiler  wasnt  working before 
the leak. He said the water  from his hot tap was a trickle and was colder than it should be. 
I dont think it would  be fair at this point to ask UKI to replace Mr Is boiler  on the basis  their 
contractors may have caused it damage  when theres no real evidence thats the case. 
Particularly bearing in mind it wasnt working effectively before the claim was made.
If Mr I can produce  expert evidence to suggest its most likely the current  issues with the 
boiler were caused by draining it and have  nothing to do with the pre-existing issues,  then Id 
expect UKI would consider that evidence  and make a decision about whether they will 
accept responsibility  for paying for or replacing the boiler. 
Ref: DRN80921215The stop cock
Mr I says when the contractors were carrying out repairs  they damaged a stop cock whilst  
turning off the water supply. This led to a further  water leak.
UKIs contractors denied theyd caused  the damage. Its difficult now to establish the cause 
of the damage.
It seems  the contractors had carried out the repairs  which  involved turning the water off 
and back on again  - and left the property before the leak was reported. So, Im satisfied on 
balance there would have been no observable  leak when they left the property.  
Mr I eventually paid for repairs to the stop cock more than two months after the contractors 
visit in which  theyd  turned the stop cock off and back on.
UKI wanted their contractors to visit the property again to assess  the damage to the stop 
cock and to establish whether they might have caused it. However, by that time, Mr I had 
insisted the contractors didnt enter the property  again. 
UKI then said they would look at a claim if Mr I could provide a third-party report  to say how 
the damage had occurred.  
I dont think UKI acted unreasonably  in offering for their contractor  to visit the property to 
assess the damage  and failing that, offering to consider a claim based on a third-party 
report.
I assume they will consider any claim if and when Mr I provides them with a report  assessing 
the damage. But I cant conclude theyve done anything wrong in the way they handled this 
matter up to May 2018 when Mr I brought his complaint to us. 
The tiles
As our investigator pointed out to Mr I, if the contractors have in any way damaged  the tiles 
in his bathroom whilst carrying  out the repair work,  this can be picked up and rectified  during 
the snagging that will follow completion of the work.
The membrane
Mr I says the contractors caused damage to the damp proof membrane under floor level 
when they removed the floor  essentially, by walking  across it. He replaced the membrane 
after hed contacted UKI about the issue,  but they didnt respond. 
Im satisfied UKIs communications about  this issue werent entirely clear, but as I mentioned 
above, Mr I has been appropriately compensated for UKIs poor communications.
Theres no evidence the damage to the membrane was caused by the contractor. And any 
pre-existing damage to the membrane isnt covered by Mr Is policy.  The contractors told UKI 
the issue wasnt reported to their staff at the time  they said if it had been, it would have 
been addressed  there and then.
Again, it appears  UKI were happy to pick up this issue at the snagging stage.
Ref: DRN80921216Its also important to stress that the underlying issue with damp at sub-floor level certainly 
wasnt caused by damage to the membrane  as the experts view makes clear.  Its due to 
water entering the sub-floor due to the issues with the ventilation.
So, again,  I cant conclude that UKI have acted unreasonably in the way theyve handled 
Mr Is complaint about the alleged damage  to the membrane.
Contractors behaviour
Mr I says the contractors acted in an abusive,  bullying and discriminatory  way. Hes referred 
to a specific incident in which a contractor  sent to carry out repairs  couldnt do so because  
he was suffering with an injury at the time. Mr I says that contractor was then verbally 
abusive to his wife, who was at the property at the time.
The contractors deny  being abusive. And they say the staff member with the injured arm was 
accompanied by two colleagues who carried out the necessary work.
Theres clearly  a difference  of opinion about  what happened  on this occasion  and about the 
attitudes and behaviour  of the contractors  more generally.
Given that the conversations between Mr I and/or his wife and the contractors werent 
recorded and there  are no independent  witnesses, it would be very difficult  for me to 
determine with any certainty whether the contractors  behaviour  was on occasion 
unacceptable. 
Theres also a conflict of evidence about what happened when the contractor was injured  
and Im afraid I cant resolve  that now.
However, I can say whether I think UKI acted  reasonably in response to Mr I telling them 
about his issues  with the contractors. UKI did pass on Mr Is views  and asked  the contractor 
to explain themselves and to deal with the issues.  
The contractor denied  the incidents happened as Mr I described but did assure  UKI the 
feedback had been passed on and the issue had been dealt with internally.
In my view, that was a fair and reasonable course of action to take. And its difficult  to see 
what more UKI might  have done  in the circumstances. Im also aware that when Mr I asked 
that the contractors  not return to his property,  UKI complied with this request and looked for 
an alternative supplier.
Like-for-like replacement
Our investigator pointed  out that Mr I had chosen the replacement wallpaper and tiles. This 
was after UKI increased the amount theyd allow to be spent on these after Mr I questioned 
the initial limits theyd set. 
Mr I agreed with our investigators view that UKI ultimately had done  nothing wrong in this 
respect, so I neednt go into it in great detail here. 
Ref: DRN80921217He says he raised the issue only to show the unreasonable way the claim had been handled 
given the original intention to offer substandard replacements.  Suffice to say Im satisfied 
UKI acted  fairly and reasonably when agreeing  the replacement tiles and wallpaper with Mr I 
after he raised his objections. 
Mr I got the replacement tiles and wallpaper he wanted, so theres nothing more  for UKI  or 
us - to do to put things right for him.
Provision of information about expert opinions
Mr I says that when the expert from the company involved in drying the property (Ill call 
them company B) visited,  he told Mr I what further work needed to be done to fully repair  the 
property. Mr I believes this was reported  back to UKI. 
He says he asked  UKI for a copy of company  Bs report. I believe he wanted  to check  
whether all the work the expert specified was to be carried out by UKIs contractors. And to 
use the list of works to obtain estimates. 
There is a large volume of correspondence between Mr I and UKI. But I cant see that hes 
complained to them about their failure to provide  access to the information from company B. 
They certainly havent recorded this as an issue raised in any of the six formal  complaints 
hes made.
Its entirely possible Mr I did bring  up this issue in other correspondence with UKI and it 
wasnt addressed  because either it wasnt  entirely  clear what  Mr I was requesting (Mr I 
himself says that his English is not perfect)  or it was missed amongst the very many  
complaint points Mr I set out. 
In any case, looking  at the information we have on file, I think  Mr I has likely been told by 
UKI or their contractors what the implications  of company Bs report  were  and broadly  what  
company B said. I dont  believe, in other words, that company B listed necessary works 
which UKI then decided not to undertake, as Mr I seems to suspect.
So, I dont think on balance that UKI have  acted unreasonably (up to May 2018) in the 
information they have or have not provided for Mr I. For the sake  of completeness and clarity 
however, I should  say I think they should now consider Mr Is request  for access  to the 
relevant information  and provide him with whatever information hes entitled to see, if they 
havent already  done so. 
Summary and conclusions 
Im aware that Mr I and his family  have  been  in temporary accommodation  for a long period 
whilst the repairs were  being carried out. Theres no suggestion that alternative 
accommodation is inadequate,  but I understand it must have been stressful for Mr I and his 
family. And I understand  Mr I has suffered health  problems during that time  Im very sorry 
to hear that and I hope he makes a full and speedy  recovery.
Having these issues with ones home  will always be stressful  and will always  cause 
significant inconvenience and distress. Our role in this case is to consider whether  and if 
so to what extent  UKIs actions or omissions  added unnecessarily  to Mr I and his familys 
trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN80921218In summary,  I can see that there were short periods of avoidable delay. And I can see that 
UKIs communications  with Mr I werent  always as they should have been  albeit in difficult 
circumstances. 
But on balance I think the compensation  UKI offered Mr I is fair and reasonable in the 
context and Im not going to ask them to do anything more  to resolve this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8092121