K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax), have treated him in 
relation to his mortgage. Specifically, he complains that Halifax unfairly took legal action to 
take possession  of the property, the costs  of which they added to the mortgage.  The bank 
also paid service charges  to the freeholder of Mr Ws property, adding them to the mortgage. 
And they wouldnt offer him a new fixed rate when his last one ended.
background
In 2011, Mr W took out an interest-only mortgage  with Halifax over a term of eight years. 
Unfortunately, during  this time Mr W suffered an injury, which meant he was no longer able 
to work. As a result,  he stopped making  his full monthly mortgage payments in 2017.
During this period, Mr W had several conversations with Halifax about his situation, but as 
he was unable to pay any more than he was doing  Halifax  took legal action to recover the 
arrears, and obtained a court order for possession in October 2018. Halifax also paid service  
charges worth £5,634 to the freeholder of Mr Ws property, which they added  to the 
mortgage balance.
Mr W has raised several complaints to Halifax about  the way theyve  treated him. In 
June 2019, our service  issued a decision,  which set out which parts of Mr Ws complaint we 
could consider, and which  parts had been brought to us too late. In that decision the 
ombudsman explained  we could only consider the issues  addressed in Halifaxs final 
response letters dated between 15 July 2018,  and 15 January 2019. The rest of Mr Ws 
complaint points had been made  out of time in line with the rules we must apply. This meant 
we could consider  the following points:
Halifax unfairly  taking legal action, and adding the related costs  to the mortgage balance;
Halifax unfairly  paying service charges  to the freeholder of his property,  and adding  
these to the mortgage balance;
Halifax not offering  him a new fixed rate on his mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint initially, as she thought Halifax had treated Mr W 
fairly. Mr W disagreed and the complaint  was passed to an investigator to consider. He 
agreed with the adjudicators view in the most  part, but thought  that Halifax  should have told 
Mr W they were  going to pay the service charges on his behalf,  as he didnt find out about 
this until afterwards. As a result, he felt Halifax  should pay Mr W £100  to compensate for 
this, which  Halifax agreed to. However,  Mr W didnt feel this was enough compensation, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax taking legal  action
Due to his circumstances, Mr W was unfortunately  unable to contribute to his mortgage from 
August 2017. Some contributions towards the mortgage were being  made  after this, from 
Mr Ws benefits  but this didnt make  up the full contractual  amounts. These payments also 
stopped in July 2018, and so the mortgage arrears  continued to grow.
Ref: DRN83521442Ive looked at the contact notes for Mr Ws mortgage, which show that many conversations  
took place between Mr W and Halifax about his situation, and what  he could afford to pay. 
Its clear that Mr W found these conversations distressing, and often ended in him raising 
complaints about  the way theyd been  handled.  There were several occasions when he 
refused to discuss his circumstances with Halifax, and when he did eventually go through an 
income and expenditure assessment  this showed  a deficit  in his disposable income. As a 
result, Halifax wouldnt  agree  a payment arrangement with Mr W, as it was clear he couldnt  
afford to make  any contributions at all. Instead,  they referred him for independent financial 
advice to help him with his overall situation.
I can appreciate why Mr W was upset about the lack of options Halifax were  offering to help 
him. But Mr W was out of work, and was struggling to find any other  employment. From the 
information he was willing to give Halifax during the conversations he had with them, there 
was no indication of his circumstances changing  in the immediate future. Halifax  did agree to 
put a hold on recovery action for a period to give Mr W time to find work  but unfortunately, 
this didnt materialise.
In August  2018,  Halifax wrote to Mr W to inform him they were pursuing legal action to 
recover the arrears on the mortgage. By that point, he hadnt  been able to make  any 
payments for a year,  and the benefits payments had also stopped.  Because  of Mr Ws 
circumstances and the fact that it didnt look like they were going  to change in the near 
future, I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to take this course  of action,  as Im not persuaded 
there were any more suitable alternatives  they could have offered. Mr W couldnt  afford  to 
pay his mortgage,  and it wouldnt have been responsible of Halifax  to let the situation carry 
on indefinitely  allowing the costs to build  up. Im satisfied they pursued legal action fairly. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ws mortgage  say that the borrower  must meet additional 
costs in relation  to the mortgage, incurred by Halifax. Within the list of examples  given  are 
solicitors costs and court  fees.  So Im satisfied Halifax  were within their rights to pass these 
costs to Mr W. And as I think they were fair to take legal action when they did, I also think it 
was fair to pass these  costs onto Mr W in line with the terms and conditions of his mortgage. 
So I dont  think it would  be fair to ask Halifax to refund these as Mr W has asked.
Halifax paying service  charges  to the freeholder  of the property
Mr Ws unhappy that Halifax  paid £5,634  worth  of service charges to the freeholder of his 
property. They added  this amount onto the mortgage balance  for Mr W to pay.
In 2018, Halifax  were contacted by solicitors asking  them to pay outstanding service  charges 
on Mr Ws behalf. They explained  they were planning to enforce a final charging order theyd 
already received from the courts, by an order for sale.  Halifax  paid the charges and added 
these to Mr Ws mortgage account.
If a lender has reason to believe their security  is at risk, I think its reasonable for them  to 
take steps to minimise this risk and protect their security. In these circumstances, Halifax 
were provided with a court order, and notified  of the intention of the freeholder  to enforce it. 
So Im satisfied they were  reasonable to think their security was at risk, and take steps to 
prevent that. So I think it was fair for them to pay the service charges on Mr Ws behalf. 
As Ive already  explained, the terms and conditions of Mr Ws mortgage say that Halifax  will 
pass any costs incurred  to the mortgage  onto the borrower. So I think it was fair for them  to 
add these charges  to the mortgage.
Ref: DRN83521443However, Mr W is also unhappy  that Halifax didnt tell him they were intending to pay these 
charges, and only told him a month  after theyd  been paid. Mr W had to call Halifax  and ask 
about the charges in order to find out what had happened.
Im persuaded that Mr W knew  he needed  to pay these service  charges, as the matter had 
been to court and a final charging order had been issued. I also find it unlikely that had Halifax  
told Mr W earlier of their intention to pay these  charges, he would have acted  differently. This 
is because hed already told Halifax he couldnt afford to pay anything towards his mortgage  
due to having no income. But I do think Halifax should have told Mr W they were  going to pay, 
or at least  told him they had paid, these  on his behalf. Halifax  have offered to pay Mr W £100 
to compensate for this, which Im satisfied  is fair all things considered.
Halifax wouldnt offer Mr W a new fixed  rate
Mr Ws fixed interest rate ended in 2018, so his mortgage moved onto the standard  variable 
rate, and his contractual monthly payments went up. He asked Halifax to put his mortgage 
on a new interest rate product  to lower his payments  but they declined his request. As Ive 
explained, Halifax attempted on several occasions  to understand what Mr W could afford to 
pay. But unfortunately Mr Ws circumstances meant that he wasnt  able to contribute to the 
mortgage himself at all. Because of this, I cant say that Halifax were acting unfairly by not 
offering Mr W a new fixed rate.
Mr W was unable to pay his mortgage  payments at all  so no matter  what the interest rate 
was, his mortgage would have continued  to build arrears. Im not persuaded that reducing  
the interest rate would have made the mortgage  payments affordable  for Mr W. Halifax  said 
it was their policy not to offer new interest rate products when a borrowers mortgage is in 
arrears. Whilst  this may not always feel like a fair approach to take, I think it was in Mr Ws 
particular case.  
If Mr Ws mortgage was put on a fixed interest  rate for a set period, and the mortgage was 
redeemed within that period, Mr W would have incurred additional  costs.  Considering  the 
position of the mortgage  and the arrears  at the time Mr W made his request, I dont think it 
would have been reasonable for Halifax  to tie Mr W into a product, knowing what they knew 
about his circumstances. As a result, I dont think Halifax declined Mr Ws request unfairly.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I uphold  this complaint in part. 
I instruct Bank of Scotland plc to pay Mr W the £100  theyve  already  offered for the distress  
and inconvenience  theyve caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8352144