K820x#14complaint
Mrs S says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Mrs S took out a store card in 1996. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Mrs Ss store card.  A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Mrs S was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Mrs S returned  to work.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld because  he thought the 
policy wouldve provided a useful benefit  to Mrs S.
Mrs S disagrees. She says she didnt know she had it and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ss complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Mrs S applied for a store card. Theres  limited 
information available to me about  what happened  at the time of sale. Because  of this, I dont 
know what may or may not have  been  said. So I have to decide whats more likely to have 
happened based on the information Ive been  given.
Mrs S says PPI was added without  her knowledge.  But Ive looked  at the credit agreement 
that she signed and I think it was clear  the PPI was optional and that Mrs S chose to take it.
I say this because  I can see that in the section that deals with PPI Mrs S has handwritten  in 
Yes to select PPI. Mrs S has also signed  the agreement  for the store  card itself.  If Mrs S 
hadnt wanted PPI, I dont  think  she wouldve written  Yes to take it. She couldve chosen 
not to take it by leaving the section clear.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs S to take PPI. What this means is that FICL didnt recommend 
PPI to Mrs S, they just gave her information about  PPI. This information needed to be given 
in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading  so she could make  an informed choice about 
buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Mrs 
S to make an informed  choice on whether  to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Mrs S needed to make an informed  choice on taking out the policy,  I think  she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Ref: DRN81811782She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs S says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
she could use to make her store card payments if she couldnt  work. But a successful 
claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits or savings and for 
potentially longer. So I think the policy still wouldve  provided a useful benefit  for Mrs S 
in her situation and I cant  see how knowing this information  wouldve changed her 
mind.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs S and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs S on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint  against Financial Insurance  
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8181178