K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
Mr and Mrs E took out a PPI policy to protect their mortgage repayments in 1996.  They  paid 
a monthly amount for the policy. The policy covered Mr and Mrs E. 
In relation to the issue of which business is responsible for the sale of this policy,  another  
ombudsman has already issued a final decision that NatWest are responsible for the sale of 
this policy. So Ive considered the PPI mis-sale complaint against them.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Es complaint because:
Mr and Mrs E have  told us that they felt pressure to take PPI because  of their 
employment. Although  they may have  felt pressure, I havent seen any supporting  
evidence that NatWest caused them to feel that way or that NatWest  applied undue 
pressure during this sale.
Ive also kept in mind  that this PPI policy was taken out after Mr and Mrs E had 
already applied for their mortgage,  so I think that they would reasonably  have been 
aware that the PPI was optional and separate to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs E may 
have felt pressure,  but I cant  fairly say that this pressure was caused  by NatWest 
during the sale.  
Ive also noted  that in their initial PPI questionnaire,  Mr and Mrs E stated we no 
longer have a clear  recollection of the full nature of the discussions.. and this 
understandable given  that the sale took place over 20 years  ago. But after our 
adjudicators assessment  Mr and Mrs E raised  the point about  feeling pressured 
because of their employment.  
Ive also considered a copy  of some of the paperwork completed as part of this sale. 
In particular, a copy  of a separate  PPI application  form and direct  debit was 
completed and signed  by Mr and Mrs E. 
On balance, based on everything I've seen  and been told, I think  that its more  likely 
than not that NatWest  made Mr and Mrs E aware  that they had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and they chose to take it. 
Ref: DRN81903802Although Mr and Mrs E have said that they received advice during this sale,  I dont 
think that NatWest did recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs E - so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. 
NatWest has said,  in response to our adjudicators  assessment ; the onus was on the 
customers to decide  whether  the policy was suitable for their needs. Whilst this is 
correct, they did still have to give Mr and Mrs E good enough information about the 
policy so that they could  decide if it was right for themselves  and if they wanted to 
take it out.
As I havent  seen copies  of all the paperwork from the sale I dont know  exactly what 
information Mr and Mrs E were given. For example, Ive assumed that NatWest 
couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But I think  that the 
separate PPI application form makes it reasonably clear that there  is a separate  cost 
for the PPI  particularly given that a separate direct debit form was also completed.  
But even if NatWest had properly explained  the cost, I think Mr and Mrs E would still 
have bought it as I think  they could have found it useful if either Mr or Mrs E were  
unwell and unable  to work or if they were made unemployed.  
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Es comments, including  what  theyve said about  
their existing means of making their repayments.  Mr and Mrs E have told us that they 
were entitled  to a significant redundancy entitlement because of their length of 
employment. 
But this PPI policy could  have paid out in addition to their redundancy entitlement  
and this also would have allowed them the option of not needing to rely on their 
redundancy entitlement to make  their mortgage  repayments  or the option  of using 
any redundancy entitlement to help pay for other living expenses  that they may have 
had.
The savings that Mr and Mrs E have described  wouldnt have lasted  for as long as 
this PPI policy would have paid out for and although  Mr and Mrs E have said that 
they had 12 months  worth of sick pay, based  on my knowledge of the sector  in which  
Mr and Mrs E worked, I think its more likely than not that at least some  of the 
12 month period  would have been  paid at half pay. So they could still have found the 
PPI useful.
Its also possible NatWest didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr and Mrs E dont  appear to have  been affected by any of those things. So I dont 
think that Mr and Mrs E have lost out because of anything that NatWest  may have 
done wrong. 
So these points dont  change my decision.  I know that this wont be the outcome that Mr and 
Mrs E wanted, but I thank  them  for their time and patience whilst waiting on an answer on 
their complaint. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs E paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Es PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
Ref: DRN81903803based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Es commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs E back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8190380