K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited  misrepresented her conditional sale 
agreement. She also complains that it did not treat her appropriately  when she experienced 
financial difficulties.
background
In October  2015 Miss G entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a 
used car. According  to Miss G, at first she was offered a five year agreement with lower  
repayments than the three year contract  she accepted in the end. But she rejected this offer 
because she considered her financial situation to be good, so she did not need  the lower  
repayments. Instead she decided to go with a three  year term. This meant her repayments  
were higher,  but it also meant that she would pay the finance off more  quickly. But, crucially, 
she suggests she was told, in a phone call before  she accepted the contract, that if she 
wanted to extend the term to five years  at any point, she just had to ask. It seems Miss Gs 
stance is that she only went ahead with the deal because she received  this reassurance.
During the course of the agreement, for reasons that have not been  explained Miss G began  
to build up arrears on the agreement. Then, in March 2018,  Miss G found  her financial 
situation had changed, her income had dropped quite significantly and apparently suddenly. 
On that basis she asked Moneybarn about  extending the contract term to five years but was 
told this was not possible. Moreover, Moneybarn denied that this had ever been offered as 
an option. Nonetheless, Miss G still wanted  to reduce her repayments.  To this end she made  
an offer to pay £500 per month, an offer she thought had been  accepted.  Only to find out 
later, she told us that not only had the offer not been accepted but Moneybarn  intended to 
take her to court because she was in arrears. Miss G suggests that at this point Moneybarn  
gave both her and the court incorrect information about the amount she owed it. Although  
she did offer to clear  her debt based on her own estimate of what she owed it. 
It seems  Moneybarn  declined Miss Gs offer. Instead Moneybarn went  to court and it 
obtained a court order to repossess its car. But by borrowing from friends Miss G was able to 
pay off the finance  and buy the car. But she told us, when the car was in Moneybarns 
possession the CDs she had left in the car went missing the car was damaged. Miss G also 
tells us she lost money when she was without the car as she was not able to work. Miss G 
wants compensation for all of this. She also asked  for compensation for the distress caused 
to her and her family.
Moneybarn sees things  very differently from Miss G. As I have already mentioned, it does  
not accept that it ever told Miss G that she could change  the term of her agreement from 
three to five years should she wish to do so. Further, it thinks  it did treat Miss G reasonably  
when she told it about her money troubles.  It did not agree that allowing Miss G to pay less 
than she owed it each  month would be the right thing to do, especially given she was behind  
with her payments.  In any event, it assessed her income and expenditure and based on 
what she told it, it appeared she could both continue  to make her contractual  repayments 
and pay off the arrears.  On that basis it declined her request to reduce her repayments. 
Also, it suggested it had information to show she accepted she had left nothing  in the car. It 
didnt agree it had damaged the car. Finally,  Moneybarn did not agree that it had to pay her 
for missing work.
Miss G complained to our service.
Ref: DRN84872382One of our investigators  looked at Miss Gs complaint. She did not recommend upholding it. 
In summary,  our investigator said that shed  listened  to the calls that had been  recorded 
when the deal was set up, and shed not heard anything in those calls to suggest Moneybarn 
had misrepresented the agreement. Neither  did the written agreement  talk about allowing 
Miss G to increase the length  of the agreement at will. In conclusion,  she was not persuaded 
that the contract had been misrepresented to Miss G by Moneybarn.
Further, our investigator,  looked at what happened when Miss G told Moneybarn that she 
was struggling financially.  When our investigator, looked at the communications between 
Miss G and Moneybarn she concluded  that Moneybarn  had acted reasonably. And she didnt 
agree that Moneybarn  had agreed  to reduce  the repayments to £500 per month  only to go 
back on this. Moreover,  from the information Miss G had provided it did appear she could 
afford to make  her repayments and clear  the arrears. Our investigator  pointed out that 
Moneybarn was not obliged to accept  less than the contractual  repayments, even if Miss G 
thought it should have  done.
Our investigator explained that we were  not looking at the actions  of the court,  and in any 
event we had no power overturn  anything  the court had ordered. That said we could  look at 
some of the events leading up to and after the repossession of the car. 
Our investigator looked at what Miss G had said about the amount she owed, and what  
Moneybarn said. Our investigator  thought Miss G had not taken account  of everything she 
owed when she calculated what her debt was. On balance,  this explained why Miss G and 
Moneybarn had come  up with two different figures.  
In addition, our investigator  did not think that Moneybarn had lost Miss Gs CDs. Indeed, 
when the car was repossessed Miss G signed a document  to say that she had removed  from 
the car all the property  she wished to retain. Also, in the circumstances our investigator was 
not persuaded that the damage to Miss Gs used car was caused by Moneybarn. Neither did 
she agree  that Moneybarn had acted unfairly in how it released the car. For all these 
reasons, our investigator did not agree she had any proper basis  to tell Moneybarn it had to 
take any further action.  For completeness, she also pointed out we have no power to ask 
Moneybarn to make a payment to Miss Gs family  for distress and inconvenience.
It appears that Moneybarn accepted our investigators recommendation. Miss G did not. 
Miss G suggested that Moneybarn had not sent us all of the relevant telephone call 
recordings, from the time she contracted with Moneybarn. Her position remains that she was 
told when she set up the contract that she could extend the term to five years at any time.
Miss G asked  that an ombudsman take a look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail  than the parties 
and Ive done so using  my own words. Im not going  to respond to every  single  point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Ref: DRN84872383Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature  of our service  as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every  individual  argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
why I dont find that the agreement was misrepresented  to Miss G by Moneybarn
Miss G suggests the conditional sale agreement was misrepresented  to her by Moneybarn. 
In this context, misrepresentation means  a false statement of fact that Miss G relied on 
which induced her to enter into the contract. As I have  already mentioned,  Miss G says the 
misrepresentation was that she was promised by Moneybarn  that if she wanted to change 
the term of her agreement  from three to five years,  she could do so, at any point.
If I was satisfied that Moneybarn had misrepresented the contract  to Miss G, I would think  it 
was fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right. So, I have taken a look at what  
happened when  Miss G applied for the finance,  as this is key. 
Miss G and Moneybarn both agree that Miss G made her application  by telephone.. 
Moneybarn have sent us recordings of what it says are all the relevant calls. Ive listened to 
all of the recordings I have. There is no conversation  in the calls I have listened to where  
Moneybarn says what Miss G says she was told. Miss G counters that we dont have all the 
relevant call recordings. That is possible but I dont  think that is likely because  the sequence 
of calls I have listened to all seem to follow on from each other.
Moreover, Moneybarn  appears  to have no wholesale  policy  of permitting customers to 
change the length of their agreements at will. Therefore, it seems unlikely to me that one of 
its advisors would  have offered Miss G a product  feature that was just not available.
Further, if the ability to increase the term of the agreement was so important to Miss G I 
would have expected her to notice, at the time,  that the contract  does not provide for this. I 
accept that many of us might find it somewhat tedious to read through  the terms and 
conditions of an agreement before  signing it - particularly  so when we think  we already know  
what the contents are. But it does offer an opportunity for mistakes  to be corrected and 
potential misunderstandings to be avoided.
For all these reasons, on balance, Im not persuaded  that the agreement was 
misrepresented to Miss G.
why I dont agree Moneybarn  acted unreasonably in the light of Miss Gs money  troubles
Miss G has told us about how Moneybarn behaved when she began to struggle with the 
repayments. In particular, Miss G appears  upset because she did keep on making payments 
towards her agreement,  albeit sometimes she did not pay the full contractual  amount. She 
suggests that Moneybarn jumped the gun by going to court when the arrears  built up and 
she did not clear them.
Moneybarn is obliged  to act fairly,  with due consideration and forbearance towards  
consumers who are in financial difficulties. With the cooperation of the consumer, this may 
Ref: DRN84872384include developing repayment  plans  or accepting reduced payments, freezing/refunding 
interest, or even writing off all or part of the debt. But no individual  lender is obliged to do any 
of these things.  Specifically, Moneybarn was not obliged to accept  Miss Gs offer of reduced 
payments. All the more so because she was already in arrears.  Moneybarn indicated  it was 
wary about the possible knock-on effects  of accepting reduced  payments. I can see why, 
Miss G would still have needed  to pay off the full amount at some point and clear  the pre-
existing arrears. Miss Gs money  troubles  did not seem to be temporary. So, by accepting 
reduced payments  which would have made  her debt situation worse its arguable it would 
only have served to store up trouble for her later on. I dont agree that Moneybarn acted 
unreasonably here.
Where a consumer is experiencing financial difficulties  both parties need to work together, it 
is a two-way street. Moneybarns records show, and I have  no reason to doubt  their 
accuracy that Moneybarn  did try to reach out to Miss G so it could get a better understanding 
of her financial position, but she was, at times, reluctant to participate.
However, there was some engagement,  in response to a request from Moneybarn, Miss G 
sent in information about her financial situation,  this information indicated that she had 
sufficient money both to pay her full contractual repayments and pay off the arrears.  That 
being so, it find it was reasonable that Moneybarn did not agree to accept reduced payments  
for this reason  too.
Further, in general,  I think it is fair and reasonable that parties should be entitled to rely on 
the terms of the contract that they freely entered into. Miss G had agreed to pay monthly 
contractual repayments of almost £700  per month,  Moneybarn was merely  asking her to 
keep to the payments she contracted to pay. 
For all of these reasons I find Moneybarn acted reasonably when it refused to accept Miss 
Gs proposal to pay £500 per month  and or extend  the term of her agreement.
Miss G has suggested that Moneybarn  did initially accept her offer to pay £500 per month  
and then changed its mind without telling  her. But I find this unlikely given  what  I have gone 
through above about why Moneybarn  didnt  agree that accepting  her offer to make reduced  
payments was in anyones best interests.
Moreover, it appears that prior to going  to court, Moneybarn had sent Miss G 
correspondence (as it is obliged to do) about the arrears and it told her what  it might do if 
she did not clear them.  It also gave her time to pay it. Miss G has not told us she did not 
receive these communications. In the circumstances, I cant fairly  find that Moneybarn 
rushed to go to court without  exploring other options or following the correct regulatory  
process.
Our investigator has already covered in great detail, why Miss G and Moneybarn  had 
different figures  about what she owed it. I dont think there is anything to be gained  by me 
going through all that again, in fine detail.  Miss G has not told us the calculations  our 
investigator went through were incorrect. Miss Gs figure did not include the fees that had 
been added  including the court fees. Miss G is not an expert in this area,  it is perfectly 
understandable that she might have made this mistake. But, Im satisfied that this explains 
the difference between the figures, and I am also satisfied that Moneybarn  did not take 
action against  her based on inaccurate  calculations.
Ref: DRN84872385The information I have  seen shows that Miss G signed a form saying she had removed  all 
items that she wanted from the car before it was repossessed.  Miss G has not told us she 
did not sign this form. We have also asked Moneybarn about how the car was processed 
and stored  while in its possession. It has told us its agent took possession  of the car on its 
behalf. The agent photographed the car when it was repossessed, I have seen  these photos,  
they dont show  the CDs Miss G mentions.  Moneybarn also tells us that the car was held 
securely in area covered by CCTV. On balance, in the circumstances, I find it unlikely that 
Miss Gs CDs were  in the car when it was repossessed and that Moneybarns agent  lost 
them or disposed  of them.
In any event Miss G is expected to mitigate  her own losses. It seems there was a period of 
several weeks between  the order to repossess the car and the repossession.  Miss G ought  
reasonably to have  known,  I think that if she did not pay off the amount Moneybarn  was 
asking for the car would be repossessed. That being so, I would have expected her to 
remove her CDs from the car.
I dont doubt that Miss G needed her car for work.  Indeed, she went to great lengths to get 
the money together so she could  keep the car and that supports what  she says about this. 
However, Miss G suggests Moneybarn  did not release the car quickly enough after she had 
paid it. I can well imagine that this was frustrating for her. But it appears she made  the 
payment on a weekend and the car could not be returned to her until the Monday after the 
weekend. This is unfortunate but I dont  think it was reasonable in the circumstances for 
Miss G to expect the car to be returned any sooner, if the people  who needed to do this were  
not working on the weekend, which appears to be the case. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Moneybarn gave Miss G inaccurate information that 
led her to believe shed  get the car straightaway, she seems to have assumed this. But I 
cant fairly hold Moneybarn to account  for that. It follows, that I dont find that Moneybarn 
must compensate Miss G for the work she missed as she did not have a car. 
Also, again,  I think Miss G ought  to have mitigated her losses,  she knew  unless  she paid 
Moneybarn the car would be repossessed. She also knew  she needed  her car for work. But 
it was not until the car was repossessed that she paid it. That was her choice to make. But I 
cant fairly and reasonably  hold Moneybarn responsible for this.
Ive seen the details of the repairs Miss G paid for. Her car was used when she acquired  it 
and she had driven it for several years  before  the repairs were done. Any car is going to 
need maintenance for wear and tear. There is nothing about the nature of the repairs  that 
makes me think it is more likely than not that the work was caused because  the car was not 
properly looked  after by Moneybarn. It follows I dont think  I have any proper basis for asking 
Moneybarn to refund Miss G for these  repairs.
I recognise Miss G has been through  some tough times, her income decreased 
unexpectedly through  no fault of her own, she was taken to court, she did not feel that she 
was treated correctly  by Moneybarn, she had to pay to repair her car, she lost money due to 
missing work. But for the reasons I have gone through  above, I cannot fairly or reasonably  
find that Moneybarn  did not treat her correctly  when she was experiencing financial 
difficulties, neither can I find that she made  losses due to this. Further  I cannot fairly or 
reasonably ask Moneybarn to make  a payment to her for distress  or inconvenience. Neither 
do I have any power  to ask Moneybarn to make any such  payment  to her family. Under our 
rules I just cannot do that.
Ref: DRN84872386I realise Miss G will most likely be disappointed with my decision. Thats  not my intention, far 
from it. But this decision brings  to an end what we, in trying to resolve this particular 
complaint with Moneybarn informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant  help Miss G any 
further.
For completeness Ill add that right from the beginning of her agreement Miss G was late 
with payments to her agreement. The pattern of her late payments might suggest that this 
agreement was unaffordable. However, Miss G did not raise this as an issue,  so I have not 
looked at this point.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8487238