K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that Close  Brothers  Limited mishandled her complaints that a used car 
shed acquired  via a conditional sale agreement wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Background
In May 2018  Mrs G acquired  a used car via a four year conditional sale agreement with 
Close Brothers. The car was around  nine years old and had a mileage of just over 61,500. 
The car had an MOT  but this had an advisory regarding its exhaust  system so Mrs G took it 
to another garage for it to be inspected. Mrs G says she was told that the whole  exhaust  
system needed to be replaced. She took the car back to the dealership.
The dealership agreed to do the repairs but said it didnt need to replace the exhaust 
system. Instead the dealership welded the hanger/bracket and as a gesture of goodwill it 
also replaced a damaged  bumper. Mrs G arranged to have car re-tested for its MOT which  it 
passed without  any advisories being noted.
Mrs G was unhappy about the repairs and contacted  Close  Brothers saying she wanted  to 
reject the car. Close Brothers said that she couldnt  as shed accepted  the repairs by the 
dealership and the car now had no faults. It repaid Mrs G the £60 cost for the new MOT. 
In June 2018 Mrs G complained to Close Brothers  that the gearbox was making a scraping  
noise and the car was slipping out of gear.  She said she wanted to reject  the car and cancel 
the agreement. Close  Brothers  arranged for the car to be independently inspected as this 
was a new issue. It booked the inspection to take place in July. 
However, about three weeks before  the inspection took place Mrs G contacted  Close 
Brothers to say that there  had been a loud bang  emanating from the engine. She said again  
she wanted to reject the car as felt it was unsafe.  Close Brothers said that until the car had 
been inspected  it couldnt agree to her handing  back the car. It also said that if she 
continued to drive the car knowing there was a problem then this could result in her being 
liable for some of the issues.
The independent engineer reported that the clutch was worn  and that there was a tapping 
noise coming from the engine  that required further  investigation. The independent  engineer 
said the clutch wouldve  been heavily worn at the point of sale and it was the dealerships 
responsibility to fix it.
The dealership agreed to carry out the repairs  and the car was booked in for August. This 
meant Mrs G wouldnt have a car for a holiday shed planned. Close Brothers  agreed  to 
cover the £353.12  cost of renting a car but said that no monthly  payments under  the 
agreement would be reimbursed in addition.
The dealership confirmed that it had fitted  a new clutch kit and cam shaft kit, and changed 
the engine oil and engine filter.  Close Brothers arranged for the car to be independently 
inspected before being returned to Mrs G. The independent engineer took the car for a nine 
mile test drive and found no faults. Mrs G was called and asked to collect  the car. The costs 
of the independent  inspections and repairs were covered by Close Brothers.
Ref: DRN88256472Mrs G explained shed  recently had an operation and asked if the car could be dropped off at 
her home. However arrangements  were  then made  for the car to be collected  at the 
dealership. Mrs G was concerned that when it was collected the car had to be jump started.
In September  Mrs G complained that the car was having problems with its battery  and 
alternator. Due to these faults not being found by the earlier inspections Close Brothers  
requested Mrs G arrange her own independent inspection which she did.
This independent  inspection  was carried out about one week  later and the engineer  reported 
that there  was a fault with the hydraulic lifter and that it appeared worn. Due to the 
dealership claiming  repairs had been undertaken around this area in the car Close  Brothers 
agreed Mrs G could  reject the car.
Close Brothers also agreed to make  the following payments to Mrs G as part of the 
settlement:
£288.51 being the equivalent of three monthly  instalments  under  the agreement
£155.64 being the equivalent of three monthly  instalments  of the car insurance
£51.18 being the equivalent of three monthly instalments of the road tax
£10.95 part cost
£3.89 part cost
£200 cash value  for the part exchange.
It also reimbursed  the cost of the independent report  Mrs G had arranged.  
Mrs G complained to this service as she felt Close Brothers shouldve offered her some 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by having to deal with the faulty  
car. She said shed  had to pay for extra  childcare  and book  time off work taking the car 
repeatedly to the garage. And she hadnt  felt supported by Close  Brothers who had said 
several times she wasnt able to reject the car. 
Mrs G also said that although shed asked for the car to be delivered to her following the final 
repairs this hadnt  been arranged and shed been forced to collect  the car despite  
recuperating from an operation at the time.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mrs Gs compliant should be upheld. She said that Close  
Brothers had fully investigated the issues Mrs G was having with the car and had covered 
the costs of these  enquiries. But the last independent engineer had again  identified a fault 
with the car that had been present  at the point  of sale and the adjudicator  said she thought it 
had taken an unreasonable length of time to resolve  the matter.
Mrs G had been distressed having to use a car that she thought  unsafe,  particularly when  
her children had been in the car. She had also had an episode  of poor health that had been  
affected by having to go out and collect the car.
The adjudicator said she thought it was fair and reasonable  for Close Brothers to pay Mrs G 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience in addition to the other  payments it 
had offered.
Close Brothers disagreed  with our adjudicators view.  It said that it had paid an additional 
£265.95 for Mrs G to rent the car to cover  her holiday whereas  usually  it would only have 
reimbursed the monthly payment. It had no obligation  under the agreement  to provide for a 
Ref: DRN88256473replacement car while  repairs  were being  undertaken. It said it was unreasonable  to require 
it to pay an additional  £150 as compensation.
Mrs G agrees with our adjudicator though she has asked  me to consider whether a larger  
amount of compensation would be fair.
As the parties have been unable to agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed that this car had a number of faults  when Mrs G acquired it. The three 
independent inspections each identified different faults that were developing or present when 
Mrs G acquired  it. So I think Close Brothers acted reasonably in agreeing that Mrs G could 
reject the car.
Im unclear  why all the faults werent  identified when the car was first inspected and this has 
meant that this matter  has become  protracted. Ive seen this left Mrs G feeling let down by 
Close Brothers as it repeatedly declined her requests to reject  the car.
I agree  with our adjudicator that Close Brothers  fully investigated this matter and have 
properly covered the costs that these  enquiries have resulted in. However, its clear that Mrs 
G has been distressed  by this matter, made worse by her being unwell and requiring a 
surgery when the car was having problems with its gearbox.
Close Brothers says its been fair in its settlement to Mrs G as in addition  to reimbursing her 
for the time she wasnt  able to use the car (the three month payments) it also covered, as a 
gesture of goodwill, the cost of the hire car for Mrs Gs family holiday.
While I appreciate that Close Brothers  dont have an obligation to provide alternative 
transport while the car was being repaired I do think it was fair that they paid the cost of 
hiring a car for Mrs Gs holiday.  Mrs G had, quite  reasonably, expected to be able to use her 
own car for her family holiday.  The additional cost of renting a cart was therefore unexpected 
and unplanned.  In these particular circumstances  I think  most people wouldve expected 
Close Brothers to cover  this cost as part of any fair settlement to Mrs G.
I dont think this payment  also covered any distress and inconvenience suffered  by Mrs G 
having to deal with this matter. Ive seen that Mrs G had to; take the car backwards and 
forwards to the garage several times; take time off work and make alternative  arrangements 
for childcare and travel; make numerous calls; use a car she had serious concerns about; 
and felt unsupported about her complaint.  The evidence shows  the car had numerous faults 
and Close  Brothers has accepted  she was entitled  to reject it due to its quality. Ive also seen 
that Mrs G was unwell while her complaint about the car was being investigated and despite 
asking for arrangements  for the car to be delivered on one occasion  this didnt happen. So I 
think that an additional amount of £150  for the distress caused  to her is fair and reasonable.
Ive seen that Mrs G was able to have limited use of the car and its fair she isnt reimbursed 
for the whole  time she had the car in her possession. So I think  Close Brothers settlement to 
pay back three months worth of payments under  the agreement, of road tax and car 
insurance is fair.
Ref: DRN88256474I also think Close Brothers was fair in covering  all the costs  relating to repairs and 
inspections.
So looking  at the evidence Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint and Im asking Close Brothers  to 
pay Mrs G an additional amount of £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
caused to her while dealing with this matter.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Gs complaint.  Im asking Close Brothers  
Limited to pay Mrs G £150 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to 
her dealing with this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8825647