K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the changes Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) made to its 
overdraft pricing structure in November 2017. They say that the charges were  unfair  as they 
attempted to mask higher overdraft charges.
Background
In August  2017,  Lloyds wrote to its customers to explain that it would be moving from a 
pricing structure based on an Annual Percentage Rate (APR) to a daily charge of 1p per 
every full £7 per day. Mr and Mrs B complained to Lloyds before  these  changes  came in. 
They were  unhappy  that their overdraft would cost more to use and said the pricing structure 
masked the much higher  cost. 
Lloyds didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said it was entitled  to change  its pricing 
structure and while  this meant some customers might end up paying more, it had transitional  
arrangements in place to mitigate this. Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied and referred their 
complaint to our service.
Two of our investigators looked  into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. They didnt think that Lloyds 
had done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs B unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say that the price increase was introduced by stealth and in a manner which 
didnt highlight or notify account holders of the exorbitant APR. But it may help for me to start 
by explaining that using  an example or representative APR is only one of the ways  a bank 
can explain  the costs  of an overdraft. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), as part of its 2018 and 2019  High cost credit: 
overdrafts review, did go on to conclude that APRs  were the simplest and most transparent 
way of displaying the cost of an overdraft  especially  in terms of comparing the cost 
between banks and to other forms of credit. But the new rules which followed the review only 
came into force in April 2020. A requirement  for a bank to display the APR of an overdraft 
wasnt in place prior to this and the new requirement wasnt  retrospective either. So I dont 
think Lloyds failure  to display an APR as part of its November 2017  changes meant that it 
did something wrong.
Id also add  even if only for the sake of completeness - that even if these new FCA 
requirements had been  in place at the time of the change in pricing structure,  it isnt my role 
to punish a firm for a rule breach or to investigate overdraft pricing terms. These are matters  
for the FCA. 
My role is to look at whether a complainant might have lost out in the event I find that a firm 
did something wrong. In practical terms this means  I wouldnt tell a firm to pay compensation 
to a complainant  just for failing to display an APR, or for increasing  the cost of using an 
open-ended credit facility  such  as an overdraft. But I might tell it to do so in circumstances 
Ref: DRN81711352where the failure to display an APR or the increase  in cost unfairly caused a complainant to 
lose out. 
For example  in circumstances  where  the failure to display an APR misled a customer into 
believing an overdraft  was cheaper  than it was and they ended  up paying more  than they 
would have done had the APR been  displayed;  or a customer was in financial difficulty and a 
bank took no steps to mitigate the effects  of the proposed changes  and this compounded the 
customers difficulties.
I dont think that happened  here though.  I say this because although Mr and Mrs B had a 
high overdraft limit, they werent really using the facility. And while I understand their strength 
of feeling on this matter and fully accept it will cost them more when they are overdrawn over 
a certain amount, Mr and Mrs B could have  simply stopped using the facility  if they didnt  
want to accept the changes. 
So I dont  think that Lloyds implemented these change in a way that treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly. And as the terms and conditions permitted  Lloyds  to make these changes  in the first 
place, it follows that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8171135