K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about Advantage  Insurance Company Limiteds handling  of a claim and that 
hes being held liable  for damage to a courtesy  car provided under his car insurance  policy.
background 
In January 2019 Mr W made a claim on his car insurance policy for damage to his car. 
Advantage appointed  a garage  to carry out the work and provided Mr W with a courtesy car 
under his policy. When Mr W picked up the courtesy  car an inspection  was carried  out to 
identify any damage  on the car before he took collection of it. Mr W said it was dark and the 
car was dirty but the garage said it wouldn't be anything to worry about if theyd missed any 
of the damage.
The garage collected Mr Ws courtesy car from him around ten days later.  Mr W was away  at 
the time so wasnt present when the car was collected. Mr W was later informed by 
Advantage the garage had found damage  to the car that wasnt present when he initially  
collected it. So the garage had made  a claim on his behalf under his insurance  policy  - 
meaning he would have to pay an excess for the claim. The garage took photos of the 
damage at the time of collection, which were later provided to Mr W.  Mr W has confirmed 
these were taken at his property.
Mr W disputed  the damage  was caused  by him and told Advantage about the circumstances 
when he collected  the courtesy car from the garage. dvantage arranged  for the courtesy  car 
to be inspected by an engineer. They said the damage appeared to be recent  and related to 
the claim.  Advantage informed Mr W he would need  to pay an excess  for the  claim. Mr W 
was also unhappy  with the repairs carried out on his own vehicle by the garage.  Advantage 
agreed these werent satisfactory, so they arranged for Mr Ws vehicle to be repaired  again  
and offered him £75 for the inconvenience  caused.  Mr W didnt agree with Advantage, so he 
brought his complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  agreed with Advantages proposed  actions to put right the issue  with repairs  
to Mr Ws own vehicle  but thought  they should pay Mr W £150 for the inconvenience 
caused. Advantage and Mr W both agreed  to this.
Our Investigator  found  Advantage hadnt done  anything wrong  in regards to the damage to 
the courtesy car.  They  said it was likely the damage to the courtesy car was caused while  in 
Mr Ws care.
Mr W didnt agree, he disputed the damage was caused in his care and was likely on the car 
when he collected  it  and the garage noting it was dark and the car was dirty on the 
collection sheet supported this. Mr W said the car was in a poor condition  when he collected 
it and he was never given the chance  to inspect the damage himself before it was repaired.  
He also disagrees  with the opinion given by the engineer.
As Mr W disagreed the complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN83031582Mr W was unhappy with the repairs made  to his own car, but I can see the issues  with his 
car have  now been fixed  and he and Advantage have  agreed on £150  compensation.  Im 
satisfied this is fair in the circumstance and as its been agreed by Advantage and Mr W I 
wont look at it further here.
The terms and conditions  in Mr Ws policy say courtesy cars will be automatically insured, at 
no additional  cost,  under the policy. Because of this Im satisfied the courtesy  car was 
insured under Mr Ms policy. The terms of the policy, like most  policies we see, give 
Advantage the right to take over the defence  or settlement of any claim, as it sees  fit. That 
means it might make a decision Mr W disagrees with. But wed look at whether Advantage 
made a reasonable decision in doing this based  on the evidence it had and the 
circumstances of the case.
Advantage provided a copy of the inspection sheet the garage completed  with Mr W when 
the car was collected  and I can see Mr W has signed it. It says on the sheet it was dark 
and the car was dirty,  but I dont think this means  the damage  was present when Mr W 
collected.it. 
The sheet noted  some scratches  around the car, dents on the front bumper  and a mark on 
the front left wheel, near the area later found  to be damaged. From the photos  of the 
damage provided by the garage I can see the wheel arch on the front, passenger  side of the 
car is very noticeably damaged, the paint work has come away  and you can see the 
bodywork underneath is exposed - which clearly stands out against the colour of the 
paintwork. So, despite  it being dark when the inspection  did take place, I think it wouldve 
been noticeable during  the inspection and noted  on the sheet too. So, Im not persuaded the 
damage was there when  Mr W collected  the courtesy car. 
I appreciate Mr Ws disappointment that he wasnt able to inspect the damage himself before 
the vehicle was repaired - he wasnt there when the car was picked up. But hes been  
provided with photos of the damage taken at his property when the courtesy car was 
collected. So, I dont  think hes been disadvantaged  in being able to dispute the damage 
because of this. 
An engineer  also inspected the car at Advantages request  before it was repaired. Their  
opinion was the damage related to the claim, so the courtesy car had been damaged while  
in Mr Ws care.  Mr  W said he doesnt  agree  with the engineers opinion, but he hasnt been 
able to provide  anything  to support why he thinks this. So, I dont think  this makes  a 
difference.
So, I dont think Advantage have done anything wrong in saying  the damage occurred while 
the car was in Mr Ws possession. Because of this Im satisfied Advantage have applied the 
terms and conditions of his policy fairly.
Advantage has said Mr W can buy back his claim if he wishes  to do so.  I think this is fair in 
the circumstances, so if he wants to do this he should speak to Advantage to arrange it. Mr 
W said his premiums  have  increased because of a fault claim being recorded.  If Mr W buys 
back his claim  and wishes to speak with his new insurer  to see if theyd adjust his premium,  
then he will need to do  separately as it doesnt form part of this complaint.
my final decision
Ref: DRN83031583My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. If they havent done so already,  I require  
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr W £150  compensation and allow him to 
buy back his claim.  
Advantage Insurance Company Limited should  pay the compensation within  28 days  of us 
telling them Mr W has accepted my final decision.  If it pays  later than this, it should  add 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to the date it 
makes payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8303158