K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc debited her credit card account of 
£4,289.60 for a series of ATM  withdrawals which she says she didnt make or otherwise 
authorise.
 
background
Mrs C noticed that her credit card statements were showing an increased spending level so 
reviewed the transactions and discovered a series of ATM transactions  between  May and 
December 2017  which she didnt recognise.  She says she spoke to her son and he admitted 
to making these withdrawals. She reported the matter to the police and provided Tesco with 
a crime reference  number. 
Mrs C explained that he knew the PIN because he had previously been given her card and 
PIN with consent to make transactions for her, such as collecting food,  but he had always 
returned the card to her when these transactions  had been completed.  She had kept her 
card in her purse in her home and he had taken it without her consent in order to undertake 
the disputed transactions.  
Mrs C complained to Tesco, as she said she hadnt  made these transactions, and felt she 
should have been notified her balance had gone  beyond her credit  limit. 
Tesco reviewed her complaint and held her liable for the transactions because: 
in giving the card and PIN to her son on one occasion, she had given him authority to 
use her credit card account; 
she had breached their terms and conditions by sharing her card and PIN with her 
son; and
they wouldnt have  contacted her about these transactions  as they looked  like 
genuine spending rather than fraudulent transactions. 
Mrs C didnt agree, so she came to our service. Our investigator recommended  that Mrs Cs 
complaint be upheld. He accepted that Mrs C had previously given her son authority to use 
her credit card but felt that as he had returned the card the consent and authority were 
withdrawn. So because the disputed  transactions occurred  without  Mrs Cs consent after her 
son took the card again, our investigator thought  that Tesco should refund them. He felt it 
would be fair to withhold up to £50 as this was outlined in the terms and conditions.  He 
asked them to rework her account as if the transactions had never occurred and to remove  
any adverse information  from her credit file if applicable. He also asked  Tesco to pay £200 
for the distress and inconvenience they had caused  Mrs C. 
Tesco didnt  agree. They felt that their terms and conditions and the relevant regulations 
meant that as she had given her card and PIN to her son with consent  previously, she could 
be held liable for all the transactions he made even after he had returned it. They felt she 
wouldnt have been held liable for any transactions after she had notified them that her PIN 
was compromised, but she hadnt done this. They also pointed out that Mrs C had received 
statements over the period so had the opportunity  to notice the transactions  earlier and to 
get in touch with them.  Our investigators  opinion wasnt changed, so it has come to me to 
decide. 
Ref: DRN81696232my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Generally, Tesco can hold Mrs C liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that it is more likely than not that she authorised these  payments or gave someone else 
consent to make them on her behalf.  
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that these  payments were properly 
authenticated  that is that the genuine card and PIN were  used  to make these transactions. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that its not, on its own,  enough to enable  Tesco  
to hold Mrs C liable.  I also accept  that Mrs C was in breach  of the terms and conditions  of 
her account  by sharing her PIN with members of her family, but this in and of itself doesnt 
mean that she consented to these payments such that Tesco could hold her liable for these 
transactions. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that Mrs C consented to the transactions  being  made.  Having done  so, I think 
it is most  likely Mrs C didnt authorise to these transactions. Ill explain why. 
The relevant  regulations  say that if someone  gives their credit  token  that is their physical 
credit card  to someone  else with their consent, then they will be held liable for any use of 
their credit facility by the other person. This remains the case even if they exceed  the 
parameters of their consent. Tesco have said that as Mrs C accepts she had given her credit  
card and PIN to her son on previous occasions,  she has in essence given him open ended  
consent to use it. And this consent  would only end, if she reported  that someone else knew 
her PIN to Tesco. But in this case Mrs C has explained that her son returned her card to her, 
and then took it again without her consent in order to make  the disputed transactions. And I 
have seen no evidence  which  would make me disbelieve her account.  When considering the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think Mrs Cs consent ended  when her son returned  the 
card to her previously. Consequentially  I find that when  her son made the disputed 
transactions he had the credit token without  her consent, and so Mrs C should not be held 
liable for these transactions. 
Tesco raised that she should have  been aware  of the transactions and put a stop to them 
sooner as they took place  over a number of months.  But Im not satisfied  that this means  she 
consented to her son using her card for these transactions, or consented to him having her 
credit token on these occasions. The fact that she gave him consent on some occasions to 
use her credit card does not mean  he then had consent to take her card without her 
knowledge whenever he felt like it. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mrs C  
to be held liable for the transactions in these circumstances.
The relevant  regulations  say that Mrs C can be held liable for up to the first £50 of any loss 
arising from use of their credit  token even where  it has been used without consent.  As this is 
allowed for in the terms and conditions of this account, I would find it fair and reasonable for 
Tesco to withhold up to £50 from the total amount  refunded.  
Our investigator recommended Tesco also pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by Tesco.  I understand that discovering her son carried  out these transactions 
without her consent has caused  Mrs C a lot of distress,  and this was added  to by Tesco 
holding her liable for these transactions. So I agree  with our investigators  recommendation 
and ask that Tesco pay £200  in recognition  of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN81696233my final decision
Having carefully considered the circumstances I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance Plc. To put things right Tesco Personal Finance Plc need  to: 
refund  the disputed  transactions,  withholding the first £50 in line with their terms and 
conditions if they choose to do so
rework Mrs Cs account as if the transactions have never happened and remove  any 
relevant adverse information from Mrs Cs credit file if applicable 
pay Mrs C £200 for the distress  and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8169623