K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of the late Mr S (Mr S) that Bank of Scotland plc trading at the
time as Halifax mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007.
background
In October  2019, I issued  my provisional decision.  In it I explained why I was intending to 
uphold this complaint.  A copy of my provisional decision is attached and forms part of this 
final decision.
In summary  I said that I didnt think this was a suitable policy  for Mr S.
I asked for both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Halifax hasnt provided any further information to take into account. Mrs S accepted  my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Halifax hasnt given  me anything further  to consider and as Mrs S was happy to accept my 
decision, I see no reason  to depart  from my findings in my provisional decision.
I dont think the policy  sold to Mr S was suitable and I think he lost out financially as a result 
of what Halifax did wrong.
putting things right
Halifax should put the estate of Mr S in the position  it would be in now if he hadnt  taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax  should:
Pay the estate  of Mr S amount that was paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr S paid it until it is returned to the estate.  
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If a successful claim was made  under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off what was paid from 
the amount it now owes.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
the estate of Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if one is requested.
Ref: DRN88701322my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. Bank 
of Scotland plc should pay compensation as I have  set out in the putting  things right section 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S on behalf  of 
the estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before  17 January 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88701323Copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mrs S complains on behalf of the late Mr S (Mr S) that Bank of Scotland plc trading at the 
time as Halifax mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2007.
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy alongside  a mortgage in 2007.
The policy was sold as part of a packaged  protection called Total  Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP). This packaged protection plan consisted of three parts - PPI, critical illness  cover  
and life cover. Each part could be taken separately  or declined.
The PPI cost £31.16 per month and would  have covered Mr S in case  he was off work 
through an accident, sickness  or if he lost his job.
Mrs S says that Mr S received a letter about the TMPP  in 2007 which showed that Halifax 
had sold the same plan to Mr S that year without previously checking  he already had a 
TMPP in place which had been taken in 2005.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think this policy was mis-sold. Unhappy with this view Mrs S asked for 
the matter to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Halifax advised Mr S to take out the PPI. That meant that Halifax needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for him. It also had to give him clear  
information so he could make an informed choice  about whether or not to take it out.
Looking at the circumstances I cant say this was a suitable policy.
Halifax has provided internal screenshots of the questions Mr S was asked at the time he 
took out the PPI. These questions are about whether Mr S had other means  to replace his 
income if he became  unemployed  or was off work  because he was too ill or he had an 
accident. The answers to these questions  show that Mr S had indicated  that he did have 
other means  to replace  his income if he lost his job or couldnt work. It is also indicated on 
these screenshots  that he didnt need  the cover for accident, sickness  or unemployment. To 
be clear Im only looking at the PPI part of the policy.
After setting up the TMPP policy, Halifax wrote to Mr S in October 2007 to tell him that he 
should shortly be receiving a welcome pack containing the policy schedule and policy  
conditions. This letter  also stated Following a review of your account, we see that you have 
Ref: DRN88701324another policy that offers similar coverage. Your new protection  plan will not impact  your 
entitlement to benefit on your existing policy.
The letter requested Mr S call if he would like to speak about  the duplication of the cover.  
On requesting some further information,  Halifax is unable to explain why this PPI was sold in 
2007. Looking  at everything  it doesnt  seem as though Mr S would have  needed the PPI in 
2007 as he already had another similar policy in place, and this was a duplication of cover. 
Mr S had also told the representative that he had enough means to replace his income  
should he lose his job or be unable to work.  So, I dont think Halifax should  have  sold this 
policy to Mr S at all.
I think Mr and Mrs S lost out financially as a result of what  Halifax  did wrong and I intend to 
uphold this complaint.
putting things right.
Halifax should put the estate of Mr S in the position  it would be in now if he hadnt  taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax  should:
Pay the estate  of Mr S amount that was paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when Mr S paid it until it is returned to the estate.  
The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If the estate  of Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Halifax  can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
the estate of Mr S a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if one is requested.
my provisional decision
Subject to any further information or evidence provided by the parties, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Im planning to ask Bank  of Scotland plc to put things right as set out 
in the section putting things right above.
I now invite all parties to submit any further evidence  or comments they wish me to consider 
by 25 November 2019, after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8870132