K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out the MPPI  policy in 2004.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy, 
which provided both Mr and Mrs T with accident, sickness  and unemployment  cover.
The policy was sold as part of a package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
The TMPP also provided critical  illness and life cover. But Im only looking  at the sale of the 
MPPI here, as thats what Mr and Mrs T have complained about.
I sent Mr and Mrs T and Bank of Scotland my provisional decision on 16 January 2019  
explaining why I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. I said that before I made my final 
decision, Id consider any further information  from the parties, so long as I received it by 16 
February 2019.
I havent received  any further information from the parties in response to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs T have  said both that they were unaware until recently that they had the 
MPPI, and that they were  told when the MPPI was sold to them that they had to have it to 
qualify for their mortgage. I dont see how it would be both. And I can also see that 
Mr and Mrs T took their mortgage out in 2002  so the MPPI, which was taken out in 
2004, was taken out some time after the mortgage, so I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve been  under  the impression they had to have the MPPI to get their mortgage,  
when they already  had the mortgage. So Im not persuaded by what  Mr and Mrs T have 
said here.  And overall, and also taking into account what I know about Bank of Scotlands 
sales practices,  I think its most  likely that Bank of Scotland made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover.  I appreciate Mr and Mrs T have  said they were  in very secure 
employment, but the MPPI was designed  to provide protection  for the unexpected. And 
whilst I understand Mr and Mrs T have said they were entitled to good sick pay and had 
Ref: DRN89582782some savings, its my understanding that the policy couldve paid out for up to 24 months  
per claim if Mr or Mrs T were unable to work  or lost their job, at what couldve been a 
difficult time. I appreciate  Mr and Mrs Ts point that any sickness that lasted  longer  than 
their sick pay couldve  been a critical illness, for which they held separate cover.  But there 
was no guarantee  of that. In any event,  the mortgage was a significant  financial 
commitment secured on their home.  And I think the MPPI was a sensible precaution.  So I 
dont think I can say it was wrong  of Bank  of Scotland  to recommend the cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs T about the MPPI wasnt  
as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful for them if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs T has said - including  that they never take out this 
type of cover  because  they dont feel they need it. But for the reasons explained above,  
these points dont  change my conclusion.
This means  Ive concluded that the MPPI wasnt mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland doesnt  need 
to refund everything  Mr and Mrs T paid for it. But Bank of Scotland  has already offered to 
give Mr and Mrs T back some of the cost of the MPPI. I dont think it needs  to do anything 
more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8958278