K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr and Mrs L 
say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.  
Mr L says this the PPI was taken out in 1996.  The policy provided cover for Mr L only.  Mrs L 
wasnt covered by the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs L say it wasnt  made clear to them that the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs L bought  the PPI policy  in a meeting. Mr and Mrs L and Santander 
havent been able to provide much  detail about  what was said in this meeting. And 
there isnt any paperwork  from the time of sale either. Thats understandable given  
the time that has passed. But it means  I dont know what was discussed. So Ive 
looked at the information  we do have alongside Mr and Mrs Ls comments.  And Ive 
also used what I know about  Santanders  sales processes to help me make my 
decision. Having  done this, I dont  have enough  to say that its likely Santander told 
Mr and Mrs L that they needed to buy the PPI policy. Overall  I think  its more likely  
that Santander made Mr and Mrs L aware  that they had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs L so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them. Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was a significant, long-term, financial 
commitment. If Mr L couldnt work for a long period of time they may have found this 
difficult to pay. As the mortgage was secured on their home, Mr and Mrs L couldve 
potentially lost their property if they fell into financial difficulties. 
The PPI wouldve paid Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  payment if Mr L couldnt work due to 
illness, or he lost his job. The payment wouldve been in addition to any employer, or 
unemployment benefits, he might have received if this happened.  Mr L wasnt  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover. So overall the PPI 
seems to have been right for them based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at 
the time.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs L.
Ref: DRN83764292But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs L has said - including what  Mr Ls said about  the 
other policies he had such as life cover  and his pension arrangements. But these provide 
different benefits  to the PPI. And so they dont make the PPI policy  unsuitable for them. So 
they dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 April 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8376429