K821x#15complaint
Miss R is unhappy with Legal  & General Assurance Society  Limiteds decision to decline 
her claim.
background
The background to my final decision  is set out in my provisional findings (a copy  of which 
can be found below). Ill now summarise each partys position.
Miss R became unwell  and therefore unable to work  in June 2017. She made a claim on her 
income protection policy with L&G but her claim was rejected. L&G said Miss R didnt meet  
the terms of its policy because she wasnt suffering with an illness,  rather,  she was suffering 
with work-related stress. 
Our investigator upheld  Miss Rs complaint and said L&G should pay her claim and pay her 
£750 compensation. I considered this complaint  and felt L&G should accept Miss Rs claim. 
I felt there was enough evidence to persuade me that from August  2017, Miss R was 
incapacitated and unable to work due to depression. 
I said L&G should begin the deferred  period from then and pay her claim until October  2018  
 when she stopped working for her employer. I also reduced the amount of compensation 
to £500 because I felt there were times where  Miss R could have done more  to reduce the 
delays throughout  the life of her claim.  
Both L&G and Miss R responded to my provisional  findings. Ive considered the points raised 
by both parties and Ive summarised the key arguments. L&G said;
During the time it considered Miss Rs claim she wasnt  incapacitated.  It suggested  she 
suffered with work-related  stress and that this was the main barrier preventing her from 
returning to work and not illness. 
Miss R said;
L&G deliberately withheld information from her which  has subsequently been supplied  to this 
service, particularly, a medical  assessment which took place in March 2018.  
And so its for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding Miss Rs 
complaint. My reasons for doing  so have  already  been explained as part of my provisional 
findings. I believe theres enough evidence  to suggest Miss R was unable to work due to 
illness and that she therefore met the terms of the policy. 
Its clear that Miss R encountered some problems at work in 2016.  These  issues  continued 
into 2017 and she sought support from her GP to help manage the impact  early on in the year. 
Its important to note Miss R continued  to work  during  that time, meaning she was able to 
effectively maintain her work commitments. I also note she was prescribed anti depressants  in 
June 2017. 
Ref: DRN86371242Up until then, Im satisfied Miss R suffered with work-related  stress, but from August  2017, 
there was a change  in Miss Rs diagnosis. She began  suffering with depression which  is an 
illness. To be clear, Im not suggesting that her work-related problems had no impact on 
Miss Rs decline in mental health. I think its entirely  reasonable  to suggest there was a 
connection, but there were other external  factors that also had a role to play and these 
issues culminated in Miss R becoming mentally unwell.
The GP felt Miss Rs illness was of sufficient severity to preclude her from work and refer her 
to a specialist  for treatment. I accept there was a delay here owning to demand for treatment 
on the NHS, but given Miss Rs particular circumstances and her relationship with the 
insurer, I consider her rejection of its suggestion to see one of its counsellors, a reasonable 
one in the circumstances.   
L&G submitted  subsequent  comments from one its clinicians which  suggested Miss R suffered 
with difficult stressors at work  and that these were  the primary reasons she was unable  to 
work. And whilst I agree that this is how things began for Miss R, I disagree this was the case 
from August 2017, for all the reasons Ive highlighted. Her medical notes are consistent that 
she suffered with low mood,  anxiety  and upset. Her problems  at work were also documented, 
but were not the reason  she was unable to work  that was down to illness. 
Miss R made arguments about L&G withholding evidence from her and this service  during 
our investigation. In particular, the medical assessment completed by one of its clinicians  in 
March 2018. Miss R said shed asked L&G to provide this report a number of times only to 
be told there was no record of it. Ive reviewed  Miss Rs arguments and the evidence  she 
submitted to support her allegation, but I make  no finding here. I should perhaps  highlight 
that Ive not seen a full medical report from that time either  and so I cannot say whether one 
exists. Rather, L&G submitted comments from its medical team  which were provided  
retrospectively for the purposes of my final decision.
In any event, I didnt  consider those comments to be persuasive enough to alter my view on 
Miss Rs complaint. However,  should she still feel strongly enough  about  L&Gs  conduct, 
then this will need to be raised through the appropriate channel as this is not something for 
the ombudsman  to consider.    
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Miss Rs complaint. Legal & General 
Assurance Society Limited  must  now;
Pay Miss Rs claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions, taking August 2017 
as the start of the deferred period plus 8% simple interest and;
Pay Miss R £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February  2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86371243copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Miss R is unhappy  as Legal and General Assurance Society  Limited has declined  her claim under 
her group income protection policy.
background
Miss R made a claim on her group income protection policy with L&G.  Her absence from work 
started on 13 June 2017 and she was signed off as unfit to work by her GP, initially, due to stress 
at work. However,  by August 2017, this progressed to include depression.
When L&G reviewed Miss Rs claim, it decided  she didnt meet terms of the policy. It said the 
evidence suggested  Miss R wasnt receiving any active treatment during the deferred period and she 
wasnt engaging with the treatments recommended to her either. L&G also said
Miss Rs problems stemmed from employment matters which needed  to be addressed and it had no 
control over that.
Miss R appealed and complained about L&Gs decision. L&G said it was unable to address  all her 
points as some were employment matters rather  than something the insurer  could comment  on. 
Miss R also raised  issues  with the delays  in the handling of her claim, but L&G said part of that was 
due to the various  concerns shed raised with her employer.
Our investigator upheld Miss Rs complaint. She said Miss R didnt take medication because she 
didnt like how they made her feel. She also said that Miss Rs GP letter from November
2018 confirmed she was suffering from symptoms of depression secondary to work-related stress 
since Spring 2017. The investigator felt this was consistent with the notes  from the occupational 
health assessment on 6 June 2018.
The investigator didnt think L&G acted reasonably  by deciding Miss R was suffering from work-
related stress  alone. She thought Miss R was caused trouble and upset  as a result of
the claim decision and recommended it pay £750  compensation to reflect this. Both L&G and Miss R 
provided comments following the investigators opinion.  Ive considered  these, but Ill only focus on the 
aspects which I consider  to be most relevant. So, Ive summarised them in turn below.
L&G didnt agree with our investigator and said:
-    it wasnt provided with the GP letter from 23 November 2018.  It said this was not submitted 
during Miss Rs appeal and highlighted  her depression was secondary to work-related stress;
-    it had not seen the occupational physicians report dated 6 June 2018. Even so, L&G 
maintained its position  and said this too suggested the depression was secondary to work-
related stress;
-    although Miss R may have applied  for a state benefit and was deemed unfit to work,  the 
assessment took place  ten months  after the deferred period.  It also highlighted that the DWPs 
criteria is different to the insurers;
-    there was a continuous impasse  in terms of engagement on Miss Rs part. It suggested she 
didnt want  to return  to work until there was a resolution  in her favour;
-    having an illness wasnt enough to satisfy the terms of the policy as it needed to be of a 
significant severity  to prevent Miss R from working  in the same role, with any employer;
Ref: DRN86371244-    Miss R was referring to an incorrect mobile  number. Although  Miss R said she didnt receive 
L&Gs letters, It noted  that she responded to the claim  form, which was sent to the same 
address as the other letters.
Miss R no longer works for the same company.  Her employment ended in October 2018.  She 
also said she disagreed with the amount of compensation recommended  by the investigator. She 
provided a further response to this service after reviewing  L&Gs  comments.
Miss R said that:
-    L&G was given opportunities to answer her queries but failed  to so. Miss R said it attempted to 
reach her using a landline  number which was no longer  in use. She said that shed updated her 
contact information with her employer  a few times. And so couldnt  understand why L&G didnt try 
to reach  her on her mobile number. Miss R said L&G had this information since September 2017;
-   she  had active treatment  through  anti-depressants. She also had significant  active  treatment 
through her GP. The counselling sessions  L&G offered failed  due to negligence, mis-
information and significant delay  in her consent queries  being  answered;
-    she didnt delay things  unnecessarily. Miss R said she was unable to provide L&G with her 
consent until shed received the occupational health  report.  She also explained  there were  some 
issues with this and it had to be resent to her a few times;
-    her employer  should have  shared  the amended report with L&G to save time;
-    she  doesnt understand whats meant by deferred period or material time and she wasnt 
aware of this until L&G declined her claim.  Miss R doesnt  believe L&G obtained  all relevant 
medical evidence during the deferred period.
Miss R also said L&Gs comments  appear to suggest she suffered  from work-related stress alone.  
She believes the evidence shes submitted successfully challenges this and suggested she has a 
valid claim.
So, I now need to make  a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally  decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im minded to uphold the 
complaint, and Ill explain  why in more detail  below.
But first, I must clarify that Ive only considered  L&Gs actions as it is the insurer. I cannot  
consider any issues which relate to Miss Rs employer, or any health service  providers.
The rules set out in Insurance Conduct of Business  Sourcebook state that L&G should handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and that it should not decline  a claim  unreasonably. When Miss R made  her 
claim, it was for her to show that she met the definition  of incapacity.
Miss Rs policy defines  incapacity as progressive which  means  the benefit under the policy 
is assessed against:
(i) own occupation for a period of two years starting on the benefit  start date, then
(ii) suited occupation for the next two years, then
(iii) activities  of daily  working  thereafter.
Ref: DRN86371245For the purposes of Miss Rs claim,  the definition  which should  apply at first is own 
occupation which means Miss R:
(i) is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed illness or injury which preventsfrom 
performing the essential  duties of the jobundercontract  of employment immediately 
before the start of the deferred period , and
(ii) continues to be in employment .
Ive kept the above definition in mind throughout my investigation.
Based on the Miss Rs GP records, I know she saw her GP in late 2016 and reported she was 
stressed about her work.  There were no discussions about whether she would be unfit to work at 
that stage because her GP noted stress at work wasnt  a medical problem.  And this is consistent 
with the medical certificate provided in April 2017, where  her GP felt Miss R may be fit to work but 
there was also a suggestion  that she would benefit  from amended hours. However, I should  also 
note that Miss Rs absence hadnt yet begun and so the deferred period hadnt started.
Further medical  certificates issued by Miss Rs GP since June 2017 said she wasnt fit to work, 
due to stress at work. At that time, it was also noted that Miss Rs cat had sadly passed away. 
This appears to mark the beginning of Miss Rs downward turn in mood as it was noted that she 
was feeling demotivated and had thoughts of self-harm. This is also when Miss Rs absence 
from work began and what she suggested was the trigger for the decline in her mental  health.
Miss R had similar medical certificates, only detailing  stress at work in June and July 2017. As 
confirmed by her GP, these  types of stress arent considered a medical condition,  so Im satisfied  
Miss R didnt meet the definition of incapacity at that time. But, from August 2017 until December 2018, 
the medical certificates from her GP consistently stated she was unfit to work  due to depression.
The occupational health  report dated 4 August  2017  indicated Miss R developed depression 
secondary to stress and if shed sought  treatment  through medication or counselling,  she could  
potentially make  a recovery within six to eight-weeks. The assessor  identified
perceived work-related issues and said these would also need to be addressed with her 
employer, whilst  she was treated for her low mood.
L&G suggested Miss R was unwilling, or unable, to return to work at that time due to her on- going  
work problems but for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded it was this in isolation. I think 
this was the case in the beginning, but after some time, Miss Rs circumstances  changed and her 
illness sadly progressed.
The available  medical records show antidepressants were prescribed to Miss R in May
2017. The medical notes  said shed been referred for CBT through her employer. L&G appears to 
have interpreted  these medical notes differently and has suggested Miss R had refused medication  
altogether. But Im not persuaded by this. Miss R has explained that she wanted to avoid  taking 
medication due to the potential side-effects   which isnt unusual and shes entitled to try other forms 
of treatment.  Ive not seen anything  within L&Gs terms which suggests she must  take 
antidepressants.
Miss R explained she wanted to know  more about CBT, specifically what  the treatment process  was 
and how it works. I note there were  some delays with getting her this information, but I disagree  that 
they were driven by L&G. In any event,  I note Miss R was referred for counselling by her GP through 
the NHS. And so Im satisfied she accepted appropriate support through her doctor.
The medical  records indicate Miss R had symptoms of anxiousness, low mood  and upset when she 
saw her GP  this is also supported by her FIT notes. And so, Im satisfied Miss R was suffering 
from a medical  condition  from August  2017.
Ref: DRN86371246This is further supported  in another occupational health report  from a different provider  in June 2018. 
Although L&G didnt have sight of this at the time, I note it subsequently has, although it still 
maintained its position  of declination. Ive considered this piece of evidence alongside all other 
medical evidence, and Im satisfied this further supports Miss Rs position that she meets the 
definition of incapacitated as described under L&Gs  policy. This report  said;
A number of issues at work including the original grievance and disciplinary  
processes and the way she believes the situation has been handled since her 
sickness absence. It is my opinion that until these  are addressed she is unlikely  to be 
fit to consider  a return to work however due to the impact of her depression  on her 
cognitive function it is my opinion she is not currently fit to engage with this process.
This indicates there were still some unresolved work-related issues in June 2018. However, the 
report also persuades me that Miss Rs depression had prevented her from being able to engage  
with her employer to try to sort them. So, I think its reasonable to say Miss R was still unfit to work  or 
engage with conversations with her employer  owing to her depression.
The GPs letter in November 2018 also supports this position. The GP also explains Miss R was 
suffering from depression secondary  to stress, it is still a medical condition that prevented her from 
going back to work.
I understand  L&G didnt consult with its Chief Medical Officer as it solely relied  on the occupational 
health report produced in August 2017, and its interpretation of the GP records.  Whilst  I dont agree 
with Miss R that L&G twisted  what was written in the medical  records, it must have been reasonable 
to refer to a medical  professional to interpret the symptoms  Miss R presented  to the GP. And, Im not 
a medical expert, which  is why Ive relied  on the opinions of Miss Rs GP in his letter,  and the 
occupational health report from June 2018.
what L&G must do
Im minded to direct that L&G must reassess Miss Rs claim as if the deferred period started  in August 
2017  which is when her GP said she was suffering from depression.
Although our investigator recommended L&G pays Miss R £750 for the delays in handling her 
claim, Im departing from the amount suggested. I think whilst L&Gs handling of Miss Rs claim  
wasnt prompt, and that it unreasonably declined her claim, I also think some of Miss Rs actions 
may have contributed to this.
So Ill also be recommending L&G pays Miss R £500 to recognise the trouble  and upset  it caused her.
my provisional  decision
I have provisionally decided to uphold this complaint. Im recommending Legal & General
Assurance Society Limited reassess Miss Rs claim and pay her £500 compensation  for the
trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN8637124