K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs N say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1990 Mr and Mrs N bought PPI at the same  time as they applied  for a mortgage.  The 
policy was in Mr Ns sole name and gave him protection  against accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs N say it wasnt clear the PPI was optional so they thought it was a condition  
of the mortgage. I cant know what was said in the meeting but on their mortgage 
application they completed  a section indicating they wished to join the scheme  and they 
gave the monthly benefit level they wanted.  Mr N then signed a separate  PPI application 
form, answering a number of questions to confirm  his eligibility and selecting the benefit 
level he wanted. This form also set out the cost of the PPI separately.  And I cant  find 
anything on the form that I think could reasonably have led Mr and Mrs N to believe they 
had to take out PPI. So, overall, I think its most likely Halifax  made  it clear  to 
Mr and Mrs N that the PPI was optional,  and they agreed to take it out. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr N to Mr and Mrs N and I think  it seems to have  
been right for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr N wasnt  
entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months  for all 
accident and sickness claims. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover.  They 
had savings worth around three months  salary at the time of the sale but the PPI would 
have meant they could use these to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or 
keep them intact for their future needs.  Mr and Mrs N were borrowing quite a large sum 
over a long period,  secured on their home.  So the effects of not keeping  up with the 
repayments could  have been  serious for them.  Overall, I think  the PPI would have  been  
useful for them if Mr N was sick, had an accident  or lost his job.
Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs N all the information they needed before they 
decided to buy PPI. Their  representative argues the cost wasnt  made clear  but the 
monthly premium  payable was set out on their PPI application form. And the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. Mr N doesnt  appear to have been  
affected by any of the main  exclusions or limitations (such as those affecting people  with 
pre-existing medical conditions  or on certain  types  of employment contract). Overall, I 
dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
Ref: DRN81406132It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs N have lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8140613