K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that PayBreak Limited wont let him cancel a loan he took out to pay for 
HGV training. 
background
In or about May 2018 Mr K signed  up for a course to train as an HGV driver. The course  cost 
just under £4,000, which Mr K paid for with a loan from PayBreak, arranged  by the course  
provider. Mr K was to repay the loan over around  4 years, by monthly  payments of just over 
£100.
Some months into the course, in December 2018,  Mr K decided  he no longer wanted to 
continue with it. He said he had financial and family issues  that meant it was no longer 
suitable for him. And he wanted to cancel the loan agreement as well. 
The course provider  said that Mr K couldnt  cancel at such a late stage. Both the agreement  
for the course and the loan agreement allowed for cancellation within  14 days,  but it was by 
then six months since Mr K had taken  out the loan.  
Mr K wasnt  happy with the responses he had and referred the matter to this service. One of 
our investigators considered what hed said but didnt think PayBreak had treated Mr K 
unfairly. The investigator indicated how Mr K might be able to obtain  advice  and help if he 
was struggling financially,  and reminded PayBreak of its obligations under the Standards  of 
Lending Practice. 
Mr K didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that the case be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
broadly the same conclusions as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Mr K agreed to pay for the HGV course  and took out a loan to do so. PayBreak paid the 
course provider, and the course was made available to Mr K. Both the loan agreement and 
Mr Ks agreement  with the course provider said that cancellation was possible within 14 
days, but not outside that timeframe, unless  (in the case of the course itself) there were 
exceptional circumstances.  The course agreement set out what  was meant by exceptional 
circumstances, but they were limited to situations  which would have made it impossible for a 
trainee to continue   DVLA  medical  failure, having  a driving licence  revoked  or imprisonment 
 none of which applied to Mr K. 
Since Mr K agreed to those terms and to repay  the loan in line with what  was set out in the 
loan agreement, my starting point is therefore that PayBreak  can  reasonably expect him to 
keep to what was agreed.  It was, in my view, made clear  at the outset that Mr K was signing 
up to a four-year commitment and his obligations  were properly explained  to him. 
It is of course unfortunate that Mr Ks current circumstances mean that he no longer feels 
that the course is suitable for him. But I cant reasonably  hold PayBreak responsible for that, 
or for the difficulty he appears  to be having  in paying the loan. Like the investigator,  I would 
Ref: DRN89097302simply remind PayBreak of its obligations  towards  Mr K if he is struggling to repay the money  
hes borrowed.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require PayBreak Limited to do anything to resolve Mr Ks 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8909730