K820x#14complaint
Miss A says MYJAR Limited  (MYJAR)  irresponsibly lent to her. Miss A says that MYJAR 
didnt carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks before it lent to her, and if it had, it 
would have realised  she was reliant  on short-term  loans and shouldnt have lent to her. 
background
This complaint is about two short-term loans  MYJAR  provided  to Miss A between 
April and August 2018. Miss As borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 23/04/2018 27/07/2018 3 £375.00 £191.09
2 03/08/2018 outstanding 6 £825.00 £241.70
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss As complaint and thought that taking into account 
Miss As known circumstances at the times the loans were given, there wasnt  anything  to 
suggest that she wasnt able to sustainably  make the loan repayments. 
Miss A disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved, it has been  passed to me to 
decide in my role as ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN85294352There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss As complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding 
the complaint  and Ill explain why. 
MYJAR has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving  any of the 
borrowing. It asked Miss A about her employment status  and she confirmed she was 
employed and had a monthly income of £1,980   £2,200. MYJAR also asked about  her 
monthly living costs and Miss A declared  these as £625  £725 per month. 
MYJAR also searched Miss As credit file, and there werent any recent adverse entries that 
would have caused it to have taken  a more in-depth review of her finances. I think it was 
reasonable for MYJAR  to have relied  upon  this information bearing in mind these were the 
first loans that Miss A had taken  from MYJAR  and her monthly  commitment  was relatively 
small. So, in these circumstances, I dont agree it was irresponsible to lend to Miss A.
Its possible that Miss As financial circumstances  werent correctly  reflected in either the 
information she provided, or the other information MYJAR obtained, such  as the results  of its 
credit checks. And Miss As actual  financial position  if this was the case   may well have 
been apparent  if further information  such as bank statement or more  in-depth credit checks 
 had been obtained.
But MYJAR could  only make a decision based on the information  it had available  at the time. 
And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss A, I dont think  it had 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for 
Miss A. In these circumstances, I dont think MYJAR  needed  to take further  steps to verify  
the information provided  such as asking Miss A for evidence of her income  and outgoings 
which MYJAR could have gathered from her bank statement  or copies  of any bills. 
Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender has done something 
wrong. And in this case, I think  MYJAR  carried out reasonable checks  even though I 
appreciate that loan two is still outstanding  and Miss A is in a repayment  plan. 
But MYJAR had asked Miss A for information about her income  and expenditure and it 
carried out credit checks. Given the loan amount, what was apparent about Miss As 
circumstances at the time and her history  with MYJAR, I dont think it would have  been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information that may have been needed to show 
the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information  Miss A provided or 
the information MYJAR should have been  aware  of, which meant it would have been 
proportionate to start verifying what Miss A was saying.
So, I cant say MYJAR  was wrong  to have approved loans  one and two for Miss A.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Ref: DRN85294353Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8529435