K822xComplaint
The estate  of Mr M complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited wont refund a number of
transactions made from Mr Ms current account  the estate said he didnt make or authorise.
Mr Ms estate  is represented in this complaint by Ms M.
Background 
Mr M had a current account. Mr M was unwell  and supported by carers and family members.
Because he wasnt able to get out very easily, Ms M has told us that Mr M would usually go
to the Post Office to withdraw about  £600,  once a month. This amount would cover his
expenses for a few weeks until he would go to withdraw money again.
During April and May 2018, a number of transactions  debited  Mr Ms account which he said
he didnt make or authorise. Towards the end of this period, Mr M received a telephone call
from someone claiming to be calling  from a government  department explaining that no
further benefits payments would be made to his account. Mr M mentioned  the call to Ms M,
and she didnt think it sounded genuine  so looked into what had happened on Mr Ms
account and the transactions came  to light.
Ms M says Mr M hadnt checked his statements before  this point because he suffered from
poor eyesight and had no reason to suspect anything was wrong. Shes also told us that, for
a number of reasons, a particular family member was suspected of having made the
transactions. And when Ms M approached  the Post Office branch, the staff there  described
the person whod made them  this description matched the family member.
Mr M reported the transactions to JPM. JPM looked  into what had happened  but said it
wouldnt be refunding  the transactions because it thought Mr M had failed to comply with the
terms and conditions of the account.  JPM thought  Mr M must have given the person who
made the transactions his PIN or was otherwise grossly negligent with his security
information. JPM said Mr M told them  that he had disclosed  the PIN during a telephone call.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint. She said, in summary, that she didnt  think
Mr M had authorised the transactions and she didnt think hed been in breach  of the terms
and conditions of the account  in the way JPM had said he was. So she recommended  JPM
refunded the disputed  transactions, paid interest on this amount at 8% and also pay Mr M
£100 in recognition of the trouble and upset  caused  as she felt they hadnt  fully considered
Mr Ms claim.
Ms M, on behalf of Mr M, accepted our investigators  recommendations. But JPM did not. It
said it still thought  Mr M had been  negligent  with his card and PIN which  had resulted in the
transactions taking  place.
As JPM didnt agree,  the complaint was passed  to me. Sadly, while  the case  was waiting to
be allocated to an Ombudsman, Mr M passed away. His estate continues  to be represented
by Ms M, who was representing Mr M before he died.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2020. Ive set my findings out again here:
Ref: DRN81958612Ive considered all the available  evidence  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our investigators conclusions
that the complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Generally, JPM is obliged to refund any transactions made from a customers account  which
the customer didnt  authorise.
JPM doesnt have  to refund any transactions though, if the evidence shows  that Mr M failed,
either intentionally or with gross negligence, to comply with his obligations under the
Payment Services Regulations 2017  or the terms and conditions  of his account.  Among
other things,  the Payment  Services Regulations  say that account holders must take all
reasonable steps to keep their security  information  like passwords  or PINs - safe.
Did Mr M authorise  the transactions?
For a transaction  to be authorised, it must be authenticated and consented to. So what  I
must consider here is what is more likely than not to have happened and Mr Ms involvement
in it or not.
The banks technical evidence shows that the disputed  transactions were made using Mr Ms
genuine card and PIN. So Im satisfied the transactions were authenticated.
There appears to be no dispute  between the parties in this case that Mr M did not make the
transactions himself.  But JPM has suggested,  in order for the transactions to have taken
place, Mr M mustve given the PIN to the person who made the transactions.  It says Mr M
told them  hed done this in a phone call he had with the bank, when he first reported  the
transactions as disputed. But JPM dont have a copy of the call recording, and Ms M, who
was present during this phone call says Mr M did not tell JPM hed given the PIN to the third
party. She says, he was upset during this call and said he couldnt say whether he had or
hadnt.
Because the evidence is contradictory, Ive considered what I think  is more likely than not.
Ms Ms evidence has been consistent that Mr M couldnt  say whether hed given the PIN to
the third party  or not. And JPM says he told them he did but cant provide  anything other
than a note of the call to substantiate this. Someone known to Mr M made the transactions
without his authority  and they were reported  to the police.  Having  considered all of that, I
dont think  on balance   Mr M did disclose the PIN to the third party or otherwise allow
them to make the transactions with his permission.
So Ive concluded  that Mr M did not consent  to the transactions and so they were not
authorised. This means JPM cant hold him liable for them on this basis.
Even though  Mr M didnt  authorise the disputed withdrawals, JPM can still hold him
responsible for them if he failed  with intent or gross negligence to comply with his obligations
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017  or the terms and conditions  of his account.
So Ive considered whether he took reasonable steps to keep his personalised security
information safe.
The PIN
Ms M has told us that Mr Ms circumstances meant  that carers  and family members had
access to his home via a key kept in a number-locked box. This was because  Mr M was
Ref: DRN81958613taking strong  medication, slept  a lot of the time and was, for the most part, housebound. So I
think it wouldve been possible for someone  to have entered Mr Ms home and interfered
with his things  without him necessarily noticing or being aware of what they were doing. And
if he did find someone in his home, I dont think this wouldve been that unusual given that
hed made  specific  provisions for people to be able to access his home  without him letting
them in. So this in itself wouldnt necessarily have alerted  him to there being a problem.
The evidence about the PIN has been unclear. At times, Ms M has told us that Mr M had a
memorable PIN. But that he had also not destroyed the original PIN reminder. Ms M also
told us that the card itself was kept in a drawer at home.  Its not clear  from the evidence
whether the card and PIN were kept together  and as Mr M has sadly passed  away, its not
possible to clarify this any further with him directly.
When our investigator clarified this information,  Ms M told us she wasnt sure whether Mr M
had changed the PIN but she said he had definitely kept original PIN notifications at home
with other  paperwork.
The PIN history for Mr Ms card shows a new PIN was issued on 14 May 2018 and that the
PIN was changed on 15 May 2018. But this was after the disputed  transactions  had taken
place. Prior  to that, Mr M had received a replacement PIN in August 2016 and theres no
record of a PIN change  in between. So although weve been told Mr M had a memorable
PIN and its possible the third party who made  the transaction had guessed the PIN because
it was memorable - I dont think this can be right.
Given what the PIN history shows and what Ms M has now said, I think  its more likely than
not that Mr M did keep  a written copy of the PIN that had been  sent in August 2016  either
the original PIN notification or his own copy of this.
Mr Ms circumstances  meant that he found  it difficult to get out alone and was often
accompanied by carers  and family  members  to the Post Office to withdraw money. Given
this, I think its also possible that the transactions happened because Mr M couldve  been
observed entering his PIN on these occasions.  Ms M has told us that the third party
suspected of having made them, had accompanied Mr M in the past on these trips to the
Post Office.
So I think the PIN was likely obtained  either by someone watching Mr M enter it when they
accompanied him to the Post Office  or by someone who had access to his home  and
therefore the PIN notification. I dont  think I need  to make a finding  about which of these two
things happened  (indeed both couldve happened).  But Im satisfied that the PIN was likely
obtained by the third party in one of these ways.
Has Mr M failed  with intent or gross negligence to comply with his obligations under the
PSRs and the terms and conditions  of his account?
Having provisionally  decided that I think the PIN was obtained either from the written  record
Mr M kept at home or by observing Mr M enter it and that the transactions  werent authorised
by Mr M. I must now consider whether Mr M has failed with intent or gross negligence to
comply with the terms of his account  and/or keep his security information safe  one of his
obligations under  the PSRs 2017.
Ref: DRN81958614The terms and conditions  of Mr Ms account say:
2.2 You must take all reasonable steps to keep your card safe. This means, for example,
that:
a) You must  not give your card to anyone  else.
b) You should  keep your card close to you at all times or keep your card in a safe place.
 YOU  SHOULD NOT KEEP YOUR CARD AND  PIN TOGETHER.
To find that Mr M had been grossly negligent, I need  to be persuaded that hed acted with a
significant degree of carelessness. Ms M has told us the card was kept in an unlocked
drawer in Mr Ms living  room and Ive found that the PIN mustve  been obtained either  by
observation or by the PIN letters kept in the home.
I havent seen  anything to suggest the card and PIN were kept together.  So I dont think
Mr M did this. And for the reasons Ive explained already, Mr Ms circumstances were such
that I think its possible someone could have come  into his home located the card and PIN 
even though they wouldnt have  been  together  all without him noticing.  Once known, I
dont think they wouldve  needed to have  located  the PIN each time they used the card.
I also dont think that if Mr M was observed  entering the PIN that would  amount  to a serious
disregard or indifference  to an obvious risk. It mightve  been  careless  of Mr M, but I dont
think it meets the high bar necessary for gross  negligence.
I dont think Mr M gave  his card to someone else and I think he kept it safe at home in a
drawer. And as Ive explained, I dont think he kept the card and PIN together.  So he hasnt
deliberately  therefore with intent - failed  to comply with his obligations  under  the PSRs  or
the terms and conditions of his account.
So I dont  think Mr M failed,  with intent or with gross negligence, to comply with the
conditions of his account and it follows that I dont think JPM can hold him responsible  for
the transactions hes disputing on this basis either.
Putting things right
As I dont think theres any basis on which Mr M can be held liable for the transactions he
and his estate  have disputed, I think JPM should  refund  them to his estate.
Our Investigator  recommended that JPM also pay 8% interest on the refunded transactions.
Ive thought carefully about this but I dont think JPM do need to pay interest on this. I say
this because, having looked at Mr Ms account  statements,  it seems likely  had the
transactions not taken place  Mr M wouldve left the money in the Post Office  account. That
account isnt interest  bearing so I dont think it would  be appropriate now to say Mr Ms
estate should  be paid interest  that Mr M would never have earned on this amount.
Our Investigator  also recommended that JPM paid Mr M £100 in recognition of the
inconvenience hed been caused.  She thought this was appropriate because she didnt  think
JPM had considered Mr Ms claim fully when  he first reported  the transactions to it. But
having looked at this, I think thats  because JPM has misunderstood the circumstances
surrounding the transactions  in particular it thought Mr M had disclosed his PIN. And I
dont think this is unreasonable,  given  how unclear  some of the information has been. So I
dont think JPM needs to pay this now.
Ref: DRN81958615My Provisional  Decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint and I intend to
order J.P Morgan Europe Limited to:
Refund the disputed transactions totalling £2,347.50 to Mr Ms estate. If JPM intends
to deduct £35 from this amount, it should let me know in response to this provisional
decision and tell me which account  term its relying on to do so.
Ms M, on behalf of Mr Ms estate, responded to say the estate accepted my provisional 
decision. 
JPM responded to say it would settle  the claim in full, totalling £2,347.50.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties have  said they will accept my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I made in it and which Ive set out again above. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I uphold the estate of Mr Ms complaint. 
To put things right, I order J.P Morgan Europe Limited to:
Refund the disputed transactions totalling £2,347.50 to Mr Ms estate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.  
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8195861