K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs J took out a PPI policy in 2004 in one of the banks branches at the same time as she 
applied for a mortgage. The policy gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
She paid a monthly amount  for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs J says the PPI wasnt fully explained and she assumed she had to have it as part of the 
mortgage. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI was presented to Mrs J. 
So I have  thought carefully about her comments and looked at the available paperwork.       
Mrs Js mortgage application  shows she indicated that she wanted  to apply for PPI. She has 
said though that she could have  agreed  to do so under pressure, as she really  needed the 
money. But there was an option to decline the PPI on the form and I cant  see any wording 
that could reasonably have led her to believe she had to take the cover.  She then signed a 
separate PPI application form and direct debit  mandate.
I know Mrs J feels  strongly that it wasnt made  clear  she didnt have to have the PPI, and 
whilst I dont doubt that is her honest  recollection I have to take into account  how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  impact what she recalls.
Overall, given the balance of the evidence, I think RBS made  it clear  the PPI was optional,  
and Mrs J agreed to take it out. 
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt  have  to check  the policy was right for 
her. However, it had to give clear, fair and not misleading information  about the PPI so she 
could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible RBS didnt  give Mrs J as much  information as it shouldve done. But I dont think  
better information wouldve put her off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
Mrs J was eligible  for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
things not covered by the policy. 
Ref: DRN86179262Mrs J told us she was entitled to at least six months sick pay and redundancy pay. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months. Mrs J was 
borrowing quite  a large sum over a number of years  secured against her home, so I think  
the PPI wouldve been useful if she was sick or lost her job. 
I dont know when  the cost of the policy was made clear - the level of benefit was set out 
on the mortgage application  form and the PPI application form - but the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think Mrs J has lost out because of any problems with the sale. Mrs J says 
that RBS has upheld several  other  PPI complaints shes made. I can only comment  here on 
the merits of this complaint, but would  add that the outcome of each mis-sale complaint will 
vary based on a number  of factors including, but not limited to, the credit  product; how it was 
sold; the policy terms and conditions; and the value it offered. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8617926