K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Copperstone Financial Services Ltd gave them  incorrect  advice  
to invest in risky Business  Property Relief investments  which wasnt consistent  with their 
attitude to risk. 
background
Mr and Mrs T have  had a long-term relationship with their Independent Financial Adviser  
(IFA) Copperstone for over 20 years, with regular six monthly reviews of their finances. 
Theyd been planning to retire from farming for around five years and eventually sold their 
farm and related assets in 2017.  Once they received the proceeds from the sale they 
contacted the Copperstone  adviser to help them with their financial planning.  
Several meetings took place shortly after the farm was sold between  October  and November 
2017. During these  meetings Mr and Mrs T said that their priority  was Inheritance Tax (IHT) 
liability, but they also didnt want to take too much  risk and potentially lose all their capital. 
They said they also wanted to keep some  money available  so they could make  gifts to 
friends and family. 
So Copperstone recommended Mr and Mrs T invest £250,000 into two discretionary 
investment Business Property Relief schemes (BPR)  which were invested  in unquoted 
shares. They recommended this was split with £125,000 invested into one company who Ill 
call T and £125,000 into a second company Ill call O  both in Mrs Ts name as she was 
younger. Mr and Mrs T agreed  and the money was invested in November 2017.
In December 2017, Mr and Mrs T complained to Copperstone as they felt the investments 
theyd taken didnt  meet the risk level they were prepared to take. They  felt they hadnt been 
made sufficiently aware of the risks or the companies theyd invested  in. So they asked 
Copperstone to clarify the risk scale theyd used to make their recommendation. They also 
said they felt theyd only invested  in one unlisted company which  hadnt  diversified the risk. 
Copperstone wrote to Mr and Mrs T to say that because the investments were  in unquoted 
companies they couldnt classify them using the normal 1-10  scale.  However, Copperstone 
were happy  the investments were low risk as their aim was for capital protection, rather  than 
capital growth so they met Mr and Mrs Ts risk profile. Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and 
asked this service to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She felt that the investment risk 
was more than Mr and Mrs T wanted to take. She also felt that Mr and Mrs T had been 
exposed to volatile  industry sectors and that they wouldve  had to keep  the investments until 
they died to receive the IHT benefit   making  them inflexible. And she thought that Mr and 
Mrs T hadnt been made sufficiently aware  of the risk to their capital.
Mr and Mrs T agreed but Copperstone didnt. They said they felt the investments met Mr and 
Mrs Ts attitude  to risk and theyd fully explained the risks to Mr and Mrs T. They  also said 
Mr and Mrs Ts son had been present at the meetings to assist  them  and help them  
understand the investments. They also felt that Mr and Mrs T were experienced investors, 
and had sufficient  time before proceeding with the investment to decide  if they wanted  it or 
not. They also said the investment wasnt a niche product and that there  was no reason to 
think Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have been  able to access  their money  when they wanted it. So 
they asked for an ombudsman to review the case. 
Ref: DRN80088942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The key dispute  here seems  to be what was discussed with the advisor in the meetings of 
October and November 2017.  Both parties accept that the conversations took place, but 
theres a difference of opinion over what was discussed. Although  what  Mr and Mrs T have 
told us is plausible, so is what Copperstone have said. And as I cant be sure what was or 
wasnt covered, I have to consider the other  information available  to decide  what  I think is 
more likely than not to have happened. 
Copperstone have  provided a comprehensive  reply  in response to the investigators  view on 
this case, and I can confirm Ive read it and considered  it in detail. However,  Ill only address 
the points which I think are the most  relevant to this complaint  I dont intend to address 
each and every point that theyve raised.  
was the recommendation suitable
The key complaint point seems  to be about  the advice Mr and Mrs T were given, and 
whether or not it was suitable for them.
Its not in dispute  that Mr and Mrs T wanted  to look at IHT planning and I acknowledge this 
was the main reason for the meeting with Copperstone. But I think  its clear from the 
evidence Ive seen,  that Mr and Mrs T also had other objectives  which  they wanted to be 
taken into account  at the same time  namely  their attitude to risk and the ability  to access  
their money when they needed it. 
Mr and Mrs T have  said they felt their attitude to risk had been established as being a level 4 
(moderate/ cautious) on the Old Mutual  1-10 scale asset allocation  tool - which they agreed  
with. However, when they asked what the equivalent  risk rating was for the BPRs  as they 
werent able to see this documented, they were just told it was an additional  risk. 
Copperstone have  said that all warnings  and risks were given to Mr and Mrs T both verbally 
and in writing through various documents  which  Mr and Mrs T had confirmed  theyd 
received. Mr and Mrs T havent  disputed  this - just that the information doesnt tell them  what 
they wanted to know.  Ive seen that Copperstone noted on the suitability report that to try 
and mitigate this potential IHT liability, you are prepared to accept a greater  degree  of 
investment risk than your attitude  to risk would indicate. But I havent seen an evidence 
that Copperstone told Mr and Mrs T what it meant  by a greater degree of investment risk 
and how this compared to their usual risk tolerance.  
I acknowledge Copperstone feel that theyve met their obligations  by providing this, but I 
dont feel this is the case. The adviser  has clearly noted that Mr and Mrs T had no previous 
experience in unquoted  investments,  and the role of an adviser is to recommend a suitable 
option based on all the requirements  not just provide information. Copperstone argue that 
there were four appointments with Mr and Mrs T before the applications  were  submitted, so 
they had sufficient time to understand the risks.  And that Mr and Mrs T have been incorrectly  
advised by a third party  that these are more  risky investments than they are. But I dont 
agree. 
Ref: DRN80088943The investment shares are unquoted  and therefore subject to the valuation of the 
businesses involved,  and whilst I understand there  are specific  valuation  rules for T and O to 
adhere to, its entirely possible  that significant  adverse  market  activity could cause 
simultaneous reductions in assets e.g. property. Therefore making  them highly illiquid  and 
difficult to sell, causing the businesses  to reduce the share value  to a minimum. Ive also 
seen evidence that Copperstone noted  that the share values are based on an element of 
subjectivity, and although theyve tried to reassure Mr and Mrs T about the investments by 
providing the previous performance  history, both T and O have said in their documentation 
that historical performance  is not guarantee for the future. So I think its entirely possible the 
value of Mr and Mrs Ts capital could be reduced  to a level they find unacceptable  and didnt 
agree to. And I dont feel Copperstone have acted reasonably towards Mr and Mrs T as they 
said they wanted to preserve the £250,000 capital for their beneficiaries, when it seems to 
me that these investments carry a high risk of not achieving that objective. 
Copperstone have  said Mr and Mrs T are seasoned  investors, with a wide range and long 
history of investment  and I dont  disagree. However, I do disagree with Copperstones 
statement that this wasnt a niche investment product as this type of investment isnt 
something thats offered to all types  of investors.  Copperstone  knew  Mr and Mrs T werent  
experienced in this type of investment and they noted in their fact find they hadnt had any 
previous exposure  to unquoted shares.  So I think its reasonable that Mr and Mrs T didnt 
fully understand  the risks of the product they were  investing in  as they hadnt  been 
exposed to this type of product before. 
Copperstone noted in their suitability report Given the potential  IHT liability if this capital  
were to remain in your estate with no relief, you feel that the additional  risk associated  with 
this investment is worth taking. But I think Mr and Mrs T clearly  had concerns about the risk 
level shortly after taking  out the BPRs,  because they didnt sign the suitability report  when 
they were given it. Furthermore,  theyve asked Copperstone  several times for an explanation 
on the risk rating of the BPRs, and upon  receiving this, still feel so concerned theyve felt the 
need to come to our service. So I think if Mr and Mrs T had been aware of the risk rating  or 
the level of additional risk the report refers to, they wouldnt have been asking for the 
information since the investment had been made.  
Mr and Mrs T have  told us that their main  concern is that the investments didnt match  their 
attitude to risk, so I think this was as important to them as their IHT liability.  I agree that there 
would certainly have been an IHT risk had the adviser not made his recommendation, but if it 
wasnt possible to make a recommendation that met all of Mr and Mrs Ts objectives then he 
shouldve said so. And I dont agree with Copperstones justification  that the risk of IHT 
liability shouldve overridden Mr and Mrs Ts other requirements. Im not persuaded theres  
sufficient evidence to indicate that Mr and Mrs T were happy to take a high or speculative 
risk with their money in order to mitigate an IHT liability.  
I understand that Copperstone  feel the BPRs dont  have the same level of risk as the AIM 
portfolios offered by T and O, and in this case the BPRs objective  was capital preservation. 
But I agree  with our investigator that the risks involved with investing  all of the £250,000 in 
two companies with unquoted shares was more than Mr and Mrs T were  prepared to take.  
And Im not persuaded this was a reasonable recommendation for Copperstone to make 
given Mr and Mrs T had multiple objectives   not just their IHT liability. 
Mr and Mrs T have  said theyre very concerned  the investments leave them  at risk of losing 
all the capital theyve  invested. Copperstone dont feel this is the case. Theyve explained 
the investments  theyve  invested in are asset  backed, so its highly unlikely theyd have a 
Ref: DRN80088944zero value if either T or O should cease trading. I dont disagree with Copperstones 
rationale that its unlikely the underlying assets would have a zero value. However, I dont 
agree that means Mr and Mrs Ts didnt have  the potential to lose most or all of their capital. 
Copperstone felt that as Mr and Mrs Ts son was present  at the meetings  theyd  done  what  
they could to meet their responsibilities for explaining the investment to potentially vulnerable 
consumers. But there is no suggestion  throughout any of the documentation that Mr and Mrs 
Ts son is an experienced investor  and he may also not have fully understood the risks 
involved with these  products either. And in any event,  it was Copperstones responsibility to 
ensure that Mr and Mrs T had sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the 
investment. Im not persuaded it was reasonable for them to rely on the son being present in 
order to satisfy themselves that they had discharged  this obligation.  
Mr and Mrs T have  also said they were worried they couldnt access their investment capital 
when they needed it. But Copperstone felt that this had been  clearly disclosed in their 
documentation. I feel that its clear in the evidence Ive looked at that there may be a time 
delay before Mr and Mrs T can receive their money back. However, this brings me back  to 
my earlier point that Mr and Mrs T also had other objectives which they wanted to be taken 
into account at the same  time as their IHT liability. Copperstone  noted  in their fact find that 
Mr and Mrs T would however like to have  access to the investment should you need the 
capital in the future and I dont feel that this was full addressed  in their recommendation. 
Copperstone further justified their recommendation by noting  that the consumers had been 
left with liquid funds of around £466,000  after the £250,000 investment so they couldve 
used these instead. But I dont agree. The adviser noted on the fact-find that Mr and Mrs T 
were considering making considerable gifts in the next few months and have left £300,000 
on deposit for this purpose. So I think it was clear  that a significant amount  of the liquid 
funds had already  been  earmarked for other uses leaving a real possibility that Mr and Mrs T 
may need to draw  on the £250,000 theyd invested.  Ive also seen  that the adviser 
recommended Mr and Mrs T invest £250,000 when their IHT liability  was only £129,978 - 
meaning they couldve kept an additional £120,000 approximately as liquid funds. So I dont 
think the advisers recommendation was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ts needs
Mr and Mrs T have  said that they werent  happy with the investments as they were invested  
with one company  in each scheme,  and that the majority of the investments are within the 
renewable energy sector. Copperstone dont feel this is the case as they feel theres 
satisfactory diversification within the underlying  company investments. They also told us 
Mr and Mrs T had previously said that they understood the diversity  of the investment and 
had been misled to believe the BPRs werent  suitable. But I dont  agree. 
Ref: DRN80088945Copperstone have  told us that by controlling different sectors of business through one 
company, they can keep  costs low.  Copperstone  also said that the portfolio managers  are 
controlling industry sectors, which implies theyre highly exposed to them  and any changes 
e.g. regulation  would have a significant impact  on them as key industry players.  Ive looked 
at the companies  T and O have invested in, and I can see that each has only invested in one 
company who have sub-divided in a few different  industries.  So I dont feel this offers  the 
investment diversification  Mr and Mrs T have been  told theyll  receive. Ive also seen that T 
noted under  its investment performance  that there  may be limited diversification across 
sectors and assets and O noted it will invest in only a small number of companies (in some 
cases one single company) and all investments  may be in one sector. Therefore, there may 
be limited diversification.  So I dont agree the investments are as diverse as Copperstone 
have said. 
Mr and Mrs T said they were worried that the investments were focussed in the same  
renewable energy sector. Copperstone didnt agree and listed  the different sectors  that both 
portfolios were invested in. Ive looked  at the evidence available  and Ive seen that although  
the businesses  do invest in different sectors, there  is a significant  cross  over of the industries 
with T investing around 54% of its portfolio  in energy  and O investing 60% of its portfolio  in 
energy. This leaves  Mr and Mrs T with double the exposure to these industries. And as 
Mr and Mrs T historically spread their investment risk, I dont think  it was reasonable of 
Copperstone to recommend investments with limited  diversification.       
IHT benefits  received
Copperstone have  said they feel Mr and Mrs T have had the benefit of the IHT element since 
taking out the investment, and if they were unhappy they wouldve sold the shares already. 
But I dont agree. Although Mr and Mrs T are technically benefitting at this point from the IHT 
reduction, the full IHT benefit would only be realised if Mrs T had passed away  during the 
complaint process.  Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the investment and there is no 
IHT benefit  unless the funds are left in the investment  until Mrs T dies  which I dont feel is 
her intention based on what shes told us. So I dont think  its unreasonable  that 
Mr and Mrs T havent taken any action with the investment whilst this investigation has been  
on-going.  
Having considered this case carefully, I dont think Copperstones  recommendation was 
suitable for all Mr and Mrs Ts needs. 
putting things  right
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs T 
as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mrs T would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mrs Ts circumstances and objectives when she invested as I think  on 
balance that Mrs T wouldve invested the money.  Although Mr and T were  considering  
mitigating their IHT liability, they were also looking for capital  growth and being able to 
access the money in the future. So I think that if theyd  been given advice to invest the 
money they wouldve taken it  even if the advice didnt address the IHT liability.   
Ref: DRN80088946what should  Copperstone do?
To compensate Mrs T fairly, Copperstone must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Ts investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate  calculation should  be carried out for each investment.
Copperstone should  also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
BPR 
Schemes 
T and O still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date 
of settlement  (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days  of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
for each investment:
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
If at the end date the investment is illiquid  (meaning it could not be readily  sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to work  out what the actual value is. In such a case the actual 
value should be assumed  to be zero. This is provided Mrs T agrees to Copperstone taking 
ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Copperstone to take 
ownership, then it may request an undertaking from Mrs T that she repays  to Copperstone 
any amount she may receive from the investment  in future. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN80088947To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Copperstone 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mrs T wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mrs Ts risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs T into that position. It does not mean that Mrs 
T would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind 
of index tracker  fund. Rather, I consider  this a reasonable compromise that broadly  
reflects the sort of return Mrs T could  have obtained from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
my final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend the business  to pay 
the balance.
determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that Copperstone Financial  Services Ltd should pay Mrs T the amount 
produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 plus any interest set out above. 
If Copperstone Financial  Services  Ltd does not pay the full fair compensation,  then any 
investment currently illiquid  should  be retained  by Mrs T. This is until any future benefit that 
she may receive from the investment  together with the compensation paid by Copperstone 
Financial Services Ltd (excluding  any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set 
out above. 
Copperstone Financial  Services  Ltd may request an undertaking from Mrs T that either she 
repays to Copperstone Financial Services Ltd any amount Mrs T may receive from the 
investment thereafter  or if possible, transfers  the investment at that point. 
Ref: DRN80088948Copperstone Financial  Services  Ltd should  provide details of its calculation to Mrs T in a 
clear, simple  format.
recommendation: 
If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds  £150,000, I 
recommend that Copperstone Financial  Services Ltd pays Mrs T the balance plus any 
interest on the balance  as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  It does not bind Copperstone 
Financial Services Ltd. It is unlikely that Mrs T can accept  my decision and go to court to ask 
for the balance. Mrs T may want to consider getting independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019 .
..
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8008894