K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G), 
mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy in 2001.  To keep things simple, 
Ill refer mainly to Lloyds.
background and summary to complaint
Because these  events  took place a while  ago and the mortgage  has since  long been  closed, 
Ive used the best information we have still available  about the type of PPI policy Mr and Mrs 
G probably bought  and what  we know about  its rules  and conditions. However, theres  very 
little point of information records to refer to and we cant even say for sure if either  or both 
 Mr and Mrs G were  covered by the policy. Because of these uncertainties Ill address both 
Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, but in all likelihood  I think its probable that only one of them 
was named on the policy  thats  because the price of the PPI seems  too cheap  to have 
covered both of them  together.
This lack of detail isnt particularly unusual, or indeed unreasonable  for a sale from that time.  
Businesses are not required  to keep records indefinitely  and so Ive also used my own 
considerable experience of PPI (and the types  of policy  normally used by Lloyds at the time) 
to help me think about the relevant issues in this case.
By referring  to Lloyds  archived  computer records, we can say with reasonable certainty that 
Mr and Mrs G bought  the PPI policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out a further 
advance on an existing  joint-mortgage. The PPI would have most likely protected  the 
person(s) named  in the policy against  suffering  accident, sickness,  or unemployment  
subject to certain exclusions and limitations.  Ive been told it offered to repay around £364 a 
month towards Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost £9.15 a month. 
At the time,  Mr G was an engineer and Mrs G a secretary in the public sector. I agree its 
likely that both probably enjoyed certain sick pay benefits with their jobs and Ive taken into 
consideration what they both say these benefits  amounted to. Both said they also had 
redundancy protection, but given they said theyd  been with their respective employers a 
relatively short time, I consider any redundancy protection would have been  moderate. We 
asked if either had pre-existing medical conditions and Mr G said he had a childhood illness 
in the 1970s. As this pre-dates the PPI sale by almost 30 years, its not a relevant 
consideration in my view. I understand Mrs G had no pre-existing medical  conditions  at the 
time of the sale.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account opened in 1998 and 
closed in 2002. This means they would have initially operated the joint-mortgage without 
PPI, as this was only added when they borrowed more money in 2001. Mr and Mrs Gs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Gs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G 
Ref: DRN85540312wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Gs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs G about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
Ref: DRN85540313s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Gs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  / 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority.
Ref: DRN85540314Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs G, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs G 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs G 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. We have no documents from 
the sale that show me this was done.  However,  Ive seen quite a few sales that are very 
similar to this one from that time period. My experience is that consumers,  like Mr and Mrs G 
would have been asked to choose  whether they wanted to attach PPI to the new or existing 
borrowing and would  have also needed to complete a specific  application form to confirm 
that choice, saying who they wanted to be covered and for how much.  
My experience is also that they would have  been  given information  about the monthly  cost 
and needed to authorise that premium to leave their bank account each month by filling out a 
direct debit mandate.
By having an existing  mortgage not covered by PPI, Mr and Mrs G would have also known it 
wasnt a compulsory product. And having authorised the payment, they would have 
expected to receive the requisite information and documents about the insurance, and they 
would have also witnessed the money leaving their account each month  to pay for the cover. 
I think if no such authorisation had been  given by them   or there had somehow been a 
misunderstanding - Mr and Mrs G would have wanted to challenge  the money leaving their 
account to pay for the PPI.
Ref: DRN85540315So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that they agreed to buy the PPI. I 
think they also knew the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue 
pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds conceded  that advice was provided during this sale and this corresponds  with my 
experience.  This means Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill, 
in particular whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable given their needs  and 
circumstances.
the advice
I obviously cannot say now what steps  Lloyds took to establish  whether the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G. There is no record of what the adviser  
discussed in relation to the policy. However, I think the adviser had some limited  information 
about Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances although there is no specific  evidence to show 
they took steps to establish whether Mr and Mrs G would have been caught by the 
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether either Mr or 
Mrs G had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall therefore, on the balance  of probabilities, Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  
have done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs G given their 
circumstances. Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
Nevertheless, while Im not persuaded Lloyds  did all it should have done to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs G each met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the policy  it seems more likely to me that Mr and Mrs 
Gs ability to continue  to meet  their mortgage repayments would have been put under 
strain if the policyholder(s)  was / were not working  for an extended period of time  
even allowing for any work-related benefits they would have been  entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs G. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Gs employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  As Ive explained at the beginning, neither 
had a pre-existing medical condition as defined  by the rules.  There  were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that the policyholder be disabled or 
Ref: DRN85540316unemployed for 2 months before they could make a claim and the fact the policy 
would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
The policyholders circumstances, including their employers sickness and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys qualification period) and the limits to those provisions, which  
mean the policy could  play an important role after those provisions  were  
exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs G be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
the policyholder  was unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs G 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. My experience is that the monthly PPI cost was usually 
outlined on the Mortgage Offer. But I cant say whether Lloyds  gave sufficient information  
about the actual monthly  benefit, or about  the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs G 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded it gave Mr and Mrs G all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Gs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN85540317-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs G about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should  have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs G suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
G. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr 
and Mrs G suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs G would have still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.  In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr 
and Mrs G have suffered loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if Lloyds 
had explained  things properly, Mr and Mrs G would have acted differently, or whether they 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs G had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.  As 
Ive also already explained, I think on balance  that the information Mr and Mrs G were most  
likely given  about the cost would have  been  clear enough. But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as limitations and exclusions probably wasnt as clear as it should 
have been.  
Ref: DRN85540318Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back in return in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Gs expectations  
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did  if anything,  it 
is more likely than not that the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than they 
would have expected as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs G thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to certain  medical conditions  that the policyholder 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if the 
policyholder wasnt  a permanent employee;
The potential requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  the 
policyholder be unable to do their own job, a similar job or any paid work which their 
experience, education  or training reasonably  qualified them  to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Both were eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest they would have  been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr and Mrs G 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and were both in permanent employment.  
So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt appear to exclude back or mental health  conditions  or place any additional  
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs G would have expected to make  a disability claim on the policy without first providing  
some evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view they might  
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if  they were unable  (through 
disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs G that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But in those circumstances,  I consider  it likely Mr and Mrs G would still have thought  a policy  
Ref: DRN85540319that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs G be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was 
not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if they were  made  redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs G would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs G found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would  
Ref: DRN855403110put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs G think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs G, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2001  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs G and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8554031