K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  when  they took out a mortgage  in 1996.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a mortgage with HSBC in 1996. At the same  time they were sold a 
PPI policy  which would  have helped cover their mortgage repayments if either of them  
couldnt work. They increased their cover in 1999  when they took out further  borrowing.
Mr and Mrs F say they were under the impression they wouldnt qualify for the loan if they 
didnt take the PPI. And they say they werent told they could get PPI cheaper elsewhere.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs F 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr F says they were  under the impression  they wouldnt qualify for the mortgage if they 
didnt take the PPI. Mr F hasnt explained what was said or done  to make them think  this. 
HSBC say it wasnt a condition of the mortgage  and Mr and Mrs F had a choice about  
whether they bought the PPI.
Unsurprisingly, given nearly  a quarter of a century  has passed since  the event, neither party 
has been able to provide  any original documents from the sale.  But HSBC has been able to 
provide sample  documents  it says would have been  given  to Mr and Mrs F around the time 
of the sale which explain how Mr and Mrs F could have cancelled  the policy.  Mr F says he 
wouldnt have looked at these as he had already been convinced  by their adviser it was the 
best thing for me. Which  indicates that Mr F knew there was an element of choice involved.
Without better evidence  to suggest  that HSBC didnt follow their usual sales  process  I cant 
fairly say that Mr and Mrs F were misled into thinking the PPI was compulsory. 
HSBC cant say whether  it gave  Mr and Mrs F a personal recommendation about the PPI. Mr 
and Mrs F say they bought it in a face to face meeting, so I think  its more likely that advice 
was given to them about it. So, HSBC had to take reasonable steps to make  sure it was right 
for Mr and Mrs F. Looking at the circumstances at the time I think  that it was. I say this 
because:
Both Mr and Mrs F were eligible for the cover and neither of them  would have been 
affected by any terms which might have made it more difficult for them  to make a 
successful claim,  such as those related to self-employment or existing medical  
conditions;
Ref: DRN84652312Mr and Mrs F understandably cant recall their sick pay entitlement from 1996. Mr F 
says it was probably the usual  six months.  The policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for considerably longer  up to 12 months at a time. So 
it offered a useful  benefit;
Mr and Mrs F would  each have been entitled to a small amount of statutory 
redundancy pay  probably the equivalent  of a few weeks  pay. Again, the policy  
would have paid out in addition  to this, leaving any statutory entitlement  to help cover 
other uninsured  expenses;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  at 
around the same time. HSBC had no obligation to tell Mr and Mrs F they could buy it 
elsewhere. 
Its possible HSBC didnt  provide Mr and Mrs F with all the information it ideally should have 
done so they could  make an informed decision.  But I dont think more,  or better, information 
would have changed their minds  about  buying it, because it was suitable for them in the way 
Ive already described.
So I dont  think Mr and Mrs F lost out as a result of anything HSBC might  have  done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint, so it follows  that HSBC  UK Bank  PLC doesnt 
have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 March 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8465231