K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS) wouldnt let her close  her SIPP 
and ISA accounts without charge, following a data protection  breach. She also complains 
that the breach caused unnecessary stress and concern. 
background
ATS wrongly  sent data about Ms Ts investments to a third party  financial business. It 
accepted a mistake  had been made, but assessed the potential risk to Ms Ts investments 
as low. It offered  to increase  the phone security  on her account or change the account 
number and said it would pay £50 as a gesture of goodwill for the worry and inconvenience 
caused. But ATS wasnt willing to waive its exit fees.
Ms T was unhappy with the response from ATS so she referred the matter to this service. 
Shed lost confidence in ATS because  of the data protection breach, and considered  it unfair 
that the business wouldnt waive its exit fees.
During the course of the complaint ATS was taken over by another firm and it no longer 
charges exit fees. So Ms T was able to move her investments without charge.
But our investigator still recommended the complaint should be upheld.  He accepted that the 
nature of the breach  meant there was unlikely to have been any financial loss to Ms T. But 
he considered  ATS took too long to tell Ms T what had happened. As such  he didnt think  the 
amount ATS had offered  properly reflected the level of trouble and upset caused. The 
investigator recommended ATS should  pay compensation of £150.
Ms T accepted the investigators recommendations but ATS didnt. It said it had promptly 
identified the breach  and taken steps  to minimise  any potential risk to Ms Ts investments. It 
maintained that any potential  risk was minimal, so it considered £50 was a suitable gesture  
of goodwill.
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T made  her complaint  because she was unhappy that ATS wouldnt waive  exit fees 
following the data protection breach. But ATSs  processes have changed during the course 
of the complaint, so Ms T is now able to move her investments without charge. So I wont 
make any findings about  whether or not it was appropriate  for ATS to charge exit fees 
following the data protection breach.
The issue  for me to determine is whether ATSs  gesture  of goodwill is enough. 
ATS considers £50 is appropriate because it acted  promptly when the breach was 
discovered, and took steps to ensure there was no risk to Ms Ts investments. It says the 
recipient firm destroyed the data as ATS had asked.
Ref: DRN87885872I accept that the steps taken by ATS meant the risk to Ms Ts investments was minimal. But 
like the adjudicator I think it wouldve been  reasonable  for ATS to tell Ms T what had 
happened rather sooner than it did. 
I understand that the breach in question happened  in early November 2018, but that ATS 
didnt inform Ms Ts adviser  network  about  it until towards the end of December. It seems 
there was some discussion between ATS and the network about  how affected customers 
would be informed, and as a result Ms T wasnt told about the breach until February 2019. 
From what  Ive been told, I think it wouldve been  reasonable  for ATS to have been more  
pro-active in notifying customers about  the breach. And I consider the delay in keeping Ms T 
informed will have contributed to the overall worry and inconvenience she experienced.
In the circumstances Im satisfied that £150  compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Alliance  Trust Savings Limited  to pay 
£150 in total to Ms T.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8788587