K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the decision of AXA Insurance UK Plc to reject a claim he made  under  
a travel insurance policy.
background
Mr H has a property abroad. In September 2017 he was moving an oil tank from his property 
to a van. During this there was an escape  of oil damaging the ground (and potentially  the 
waterway). The Local Authority required him to make good this damage.  Mr H made a claim 
for the costs (circa £800) but AXA declined to pay.
AXA explained that its enquiries  with the local authority showed that Mr H was intending to 
take the tank for waste disposal in a van. During this the tank dropped and the oil spilled 
over the ground. Apparently, Mr H washed the spill into the rainwater drainage system. 
Photographs of the area showed the spill occurred outside the door to the property and the 
van in question. 
AXA said the policy expressly stated that costs arising directly or indirectly from certain 
matters werent covered,  and of relevance  in Mr Hs case were;
Ownership, possession or use of motor vehicles
Ownership or occupation of land or buildings (other than occupation only of any 
temporary accommodation)
AXA said its view was that as the tank had been  disconnected  from Mr Hs property and it 
was in the process of being loaded  into the van then both exclusions applied.
Mr H disagreed saying  the motor  vehicle had no involvement and the incident  wasnt 
covered by his property  insurance.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and explained their opinion  that the terms 
werent unclear  or unfair. And while AXA couldnt  rely on the exclusion about motor  vehicles 
the incident was directly  or indirectly  related to Mr Hs ownership of a property.  
Mr H disagreed with the investigator primarily on the basis  that the incident occurred outside 
his property on public land and the property insurer had rejected his claim on the basis  that 
the incident occurred outside of his property, not on it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules say, among other things, that an insurer must handle claims promptly  and 
fairly. And an insurer must  not unreasonably reject a claim.
The policy terms set out the contractual basis between Mr H and AXA.  His travel  insurance 
comes as part of a package of benefits linked to another financial services product. There  is 
personal liability cover where Mr H becomes legally liable to pay for any claim arising from 
damage to property that does not belong  to him. But as with all insurance policies there are 
limitations and conditions on this. Under  a section what is not covered AXA will not pay 
where the compensation of costs  arise directly or indirectly from;
Ref: DRN83219482Ownership or occupation of land or buildings (other than occupation only of any 
temporary holiday accommodation where  we will not pay for the first £40 of each and 
every claim arising from the same incident).
Ownership, possession or use of vehicles, aircraft or watercraft (other than 
surfboards or manually  propelled  rowboats, punts, canoes and, golf buggies whilst in 
use on a golf course).
The investigator was persuaded that the claim arose  directly  or indirectly relating to Mr Hs 
ownership or occupation of land or buildings. The circumstances  are such that the tank 
Mr H was in the processing  of moving  had been  a part of and was stored on his property. 
And he was moving  it to a vehicle for transport to a recycling point. He says the spill 
occurred on public property.
Photographs provided show what looks like the remnants of the spillage directly outside 
Mr Hs property. One part appears to be a public  highway another  area doesnt.  But the real 
issue here for me is that the oil tank was part of the property he owned;  he was moving  it off 
his property to a vehicle; and in that continuous  process oil spilled.  I am persuaded that the 
damage caused by the spill was directly, but in any case at the very least  indirectly, related 
to his ownership of a property. And as such Im satisfied that AXA was entitled to exclude the 
claim from cover.
Ive thought about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and Im satisfied its 
fair that AXAs decision stands. Travel insurance isnt the type of product that would be 
associated with covering issues  to do with home  ownership abroad.  Property insurance is 
the more likely relevant  product. And Im not persuaded  that the travel insurance  
documentation is unclear, unfair or misleading  such that it gives an impression this type of 
activity is covered. At its heart,  in my view, the claim arose  because  of Mr Hs ownership of a 
property and Im satisfied AXAs decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8321948