K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about irresponsible lending by Oakam Ltd. He asks that it refunds interest  
and charges, and removes  adverse credit history  from his credit  file. 
background
Mr H took out an instalment loan with Oakam in May 2018. The loan was for £820,  
repayable over six months  in instalments of about  £120 every fortnight. The loan balance 
has been assigned  to a debt collection company. Mr H says the loan wasnt  affordable.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. He said if Oakam  had carried  out 
proportionate checks it would have known Mr H was having  trouble managing  his money  
and was struggling to repay existing debt.
Oakam didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Hs income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  that Oakam should have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for a customer. Such factors include the customers  income  
particularly a lower  income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which  the 
loan is to be repaid,  and the number and frequency  of loans and the time over which the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Oakam says it carried out appropriate checks,  which showed  the loan repayments were  
affordable. It says it used  an internal model to gauge Mr Hs expenditure.  I note that the only 
expenditure Oakam recorded for Mr H was £534 per month  on credit payments. So it seems 
likely that Oakam relied on internal  models  rather than ask Mr H about his actual outgoings.
Oakam said Mr Hs loan was different from a payday  loan with a single repayment, as it was 
repayable in instalments. Of course,  repaying the loan over six months meant  each 
instalment was smaller than a single repayment. But Mr H had to maintain  the repayments  
over a longer  period.
But in any case,  Oakam was required to do more than simply establish  whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  It needed  to check  that 
Mr H could sustainably repay his loans. 
Ref: DRN87712642Oakams credit check showed Mr H had nine active accounts with outstanding debt of 
£8,000. One was in arrears with an arrears  balance of £300.  However,  the credit check also 
showed total credit arrears of £3,300. I cant see from the evidence  provided by Oakam that 
it looked into what this might have meant for Mr Hs financial position.
Mr H provided  a copy of his credit report to us. Hed opened a number of short term and 
instalment loan accounts in April 2018, and some  of Mr Hs accounts first fell into arrears  in 
April 2018. It seems  likely this information  wasnt reported to the credit  reference agencies in 
time for it to appear on Oakams credit  check.
But Mr Hs credit report shows hed taken out at least eight loans from short  term and 
instalment lenders before this, and which were still open when he applied to Oakam. Oakam 
was aware of these  accounts from its credit check,  and that one account was in arrears. 
Oakam should also have  been alerted by the results of its own credit check to Mr H having 
other credit arrears.  
In these circumstances, I think Oakam ought  to have tried to get a better understanding of 
Mr Hs actual financial circumstances before lending to him, as there was a realistic  
possibility that he already  had more debt than he was able to afford. I think if Oakam had 
probed into Mr Hs circumstances  further, as it would have been proportionate  to do, it would 
have seen that he was borrowing from a number  of different short term lenders in a futile  
attempt to make ends meet and meet his existing commitments.
And, in my view, this would likely have shown Oakam that Mr H was unlikely to be able to 
repay this loan without  borrowing further  or experiencing financial difficulty. 
So overall I think proportionate checks would likely have shown Oakam  that Mr H was 
unlikely to be able to repay  this loan in a sustainable  manner.  Mr H had to, or is being  
expected to, pay interest and charges on a loan that Oakam shouldnt  have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Oakam should  put things right.
Oakam says it assigned  the outstanding debt balance.  Oakam should recall  or buy the debt 
back if its able to do so and then take the following steps. If Oakam  isnt able to buy the debt 
back then it should  liaise with the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined  below.
A) Oakam should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr H towards  interest, 
fees and charges, not including anything its already refunded.
B) Oakam should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Mr H 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Oakam  should  remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance,  and treat any 
repayments made by Mr H as though they had been repayments of the principal. If this 
results in Mr H having made  overpayments  then Oakam should refund these overpayments  
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  
would have arisen, to the date the complaint  is settled. Oakam should then refund the 
amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should 
Ref: DRN87712643be paid to Mr H. However  if there  is still an outstanding  balance  then Oakam should  try to 
agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H. Oakam shouldnt pursue outstanding  
balances made  up of principal Oakam has already written-off. 
E) Oakam should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to deduct tax from this interest.  Oakam should 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Oakam  Ltd to take the steps and make 
the payments  set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8771264