K821x#15complaint
Ms N is unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Plc is pursuing her for a debt after a court 
judgement was made regarding her motor insurance policy.
background
In 2014 Ms N took out motor insurance  with Pinnacle and included a named driver on her 
policy. In April 2015 the insured car was involved in an accident and several  other vehicles 
were damaged. The named driver admitted  liability for the accident  and Ms N made a claim 
under her policy with Pinnacle.
In assessing Ms Ns claim, Pinnacle thought shed made misrepresentations when she took 
out the policy. It said shed said she was the registered owner of the car, when it was in fact 
the named driver; that she gave an incorrect address  for herself;  and that she didnt tell it 
about the named drivers  driving convictions. So on 1 May 2015 Pinnacle avoided  Ms Ns 
policy - in other words,  cancelled it as if it had never existed  and refused her claim as a 
result of this. On 28 May 2015  Pinnacle  made  the first of a series of payments to the third 
parties involved in the accident to cover their claim and car hire costs. Pinnacle made the 
last such payment on 27 November 2017.
On 28 November 2017 Pinnacle  obtained a court judgement against Ms N  the judgement  
said Ms N had made an innocent misrepresentation and that Pinnacle  was entitled to avoid 
her policy.  It also said Ms N should pay 50% of Pinnacles fixed  legal costs,  amounting  to 
£321.50, which Ms N paid. 
In January 2018 Pinnacle began asking  Ms N to repay the claim and car hire costs  it had 
paid to the third parties, along  with its associated legal, hire negotiation and motor  assessor  
costs. As Ms N didnt  pay, Pinnacle passed  this debt to its debt collectors in February 2018, 
and debt recovery costs  were then added to the total amount Pinnacle was asking Ms N to 
repay. On 26 June 2019 the total Pinnacle  said Ms N owed stood at £23,225.11.
Ms N didnt think this was right, as shed paid what the court  told her to. So she contacted  
our service  and we passed her concerns to Pinnacle. It said it had already provided her with 
its final response about her policy being avoided, and that this matter had then been decided 
by a court. Ms N thought  Pinnacle hadnt addressed  her complaint that it shouldnt be 
pursuing her for anything, and our service agreed it hadnt. So we started investigating but 
said we wouldnt consider the policy being  avoided because a court  had already decided  
that.
Our investigator thought Pinnacle  was required by law to settle  the claims made by the third 
parties and that those  were the costs  it was looking to recover from Ms N. Our investigator 
thought Pinnacle  was entitled to do this, but had included some costs it shouldnt  have - 
£2,841.94 for unexplained  costs, £4,396.40 of legal costs, and £78 for an engineers report. 
After deducting  these, our investigator  said Pinnacle  was entitled to ask Ms N to repay the 
remaining amount.  
Pinnacle disagreed.  It said the unexplained costs were debt collection fees it was entitled to 
ask Ms N for because  she hadnt  paid what she owed or contacted  it about that. Pinnacle 
said it was also entitled to ask Ms N for the legal costs it incurred in settling the third party  
claims, and that these  were different to its legal costs of taking Ms N to court for 
misrepresentation, which was what the court had ordered her to pay. 
Ref: DRN87493432As Pinnacle  disagreed, this complaint was passed to me for decision. I asked Pinnacle for 
some further  information, including details  of the costs it was asking Ms N to pay and the 
timeline of events. And after considering  all the evidence provided to me, I informally  shared 
my thoughts with Ms N and Pinnacle.  I said:
Pinnacle didnt  have a legal obligation to pay the third party claims, but hadnt acted 
unreasonably by doing so. 
Pinnacle should remove the £4,396.40 legal costs it was seeking from Ms N, as it 
would have paid these in any case. And it should remove the £260  hire negotiator 
costs and the £180 motor assessor  costs,  as these were part and parcel  of its role as 
an insurer. And it should also remove the £3,542.81 debt recovery costs,  because it 
passed the debt to a debt collector after an unreasonably  short length of time and 
that this fee was disproportionate and inappropriate in the circumstances.
It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to ask Pinnacle to refund Ms Ns premiums.
In response, Ms N said she wasnt in a financial position to make any payments  to Pinnacle. 
She said Pinnacle paid the claims after avoiding the policy,  so it was asking her to pay for its 
mistakes. And she queried exactly what she was being asked to repay.
In its response,  Pinnacle said it did have a legal  obligation to pay the third party costs after 
avoiding the policy.  And it was fair to ask Ms N to pay its legal, hire negotiator  and motor 
assessor costs because it only incurred these as a result of her misrepresentation. And it 
wasnt her insurer  so it wouldnt have had to pay them  otherwise. It agreed  to waive the 
debt recovery costs  so far but said Ms N might  start to incur  further  debt recovery  costs if 
she didnt repay its claim and hire costs.
In further communication with Ms N and Pinnacle, I confirmed the claim and hire costs 
Pinnacle was asking Ms N for totalled £15,167.40. I asked Pinnacle about  the basis on 
which it engaged  its solicitors, hire negotiators and motor assessors. And I told Pinnacle Id 
noted a court had already  considered the matter of its legal costs and decided  Ms N should 
only pay £321.50 of them, which shed already done. 
Pinnacle confirmed  it had contracts  with its solicitors, hire negotiators  and motor  assessors  
but didnt employ  them  itself. It said Ms Ns misrepresentation  and the accident left it open to 
third party liabilities, so it had to obtain  the court judgement as part of the claim process in 
order to limit its losses. And that the Road Traffic Act required it to deal with claims. It said it 
had already taken  into account the £321.50 legal costs Ms N had already paid, but that this 
could again be deducted in any recalculation of the legal fees.
Im now in a position  to make my final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Before I explain my findings, Id like to clarify that Im not considering the matter of Ms Ns 
policy being avoided,  as thats  already been  decided by a court  - though I will sometimes 
need to refer to this. Instead, Im only considering the £23,225.11 Pinnacle is currently  
asking Ms N to repay. And while Ive considered all the comments  and evidence  Ms N and 
Pinnacle have  provided, my decision will only address what I see to be the key points.
Ref: DRN87493433Ill firstly  address the repayment of third party claims and associated costs.  Pinnacle says 
Ms Ns policy  entitles  it to take the action it has, because it says that if Ms N provides 
inaccurate or misleading information, then it can cancel or avoid her policy,  recover  from her 
any costs incurred by it or its agents,  and keep the premiums she paid. I can see the policy  
terms and conditions do say this. But Pinnacle  avoided this policy about a month before it 
started making claim payments to the third parties.  And when a policy  is avoided, that means 
the policy is treated  as if it had never  existed.  So I dont  think its reasonable for Pinnacle to 
rely on the policy terms in order to seek repayment from Ms N, as the policy  didnt exist 
when it started paying the claims.
 
Pinnacle says its also relying on general  legal principles in seeking repayment from Ms N. 
I asked Pinnacle what legal principle its relying on and it said The policy document states 
that "If the Underwriters  are required to pay a claim under Road Traffic law or the law of any 
country in which  the policy operates the Underwriters reserve their right to recover from 
You". This states that we reserve our right to recover the costs.  It is a basic legal principle  in 
civil law that if someone  causes you to incur  a loss (for example by taking out a policy when 
misrepresenting the risk) then you have a legal right to recourse against them to recover 
those losses. I think Pinnacle is partly relying on the policy terms here but, as Ive said, 
I dont think thats  reasonable because the policy  was cancelled  as if it had never existed.  
 
And while I acknowledge that Pinnacle says it had a legal  obligation  to pay these third party  
claims, I dont agree  that it did. Thats because once  it had avoided  the policy,  it would only 
have to pay third party  claims  in the circumstances set out in the Motor Insurance Bureau 
Articles of Association (MIB) and the Road  Traffic Act (RTA). The MIB and RTA only 
apply if any of the third parties had obtained a judgement against either Ms N or the named 
driver on her policy, and Pinnacle  says its not aware of any such judgements  in this case. 
And Ive seen no evidence to suggest  any such judgements. So I dont think  the MIB or RTA 
were triggered here. 
 
For those reasons, I dont  think  Pinnacle  can rely on the policy  and I dont think it had a legal  
obligation to settle the third party claims.  Having said that, I dont think Pinnacle acted 
unreasonably in beginning to settle  the third party claims. Thats because there would have 
been uncertainty about whether it might become the RTA insurer,  and because it was trying  
to limit the claim costs  by acting quickly. And Ive seen nothing to suggest the claim and car 
hire costs it paid to the third parties  were excessive or unnecessary. So while I acknowledge 
Ms N feels  Pinnacle is asking her to pay for its mistakes,  I dont think its unreasonable  for 
Pinnacle to ask her to repay the claim and hire costs  totalling £15,167.40  it paid to the third 
parties. Though I do appreciate  this will put her in a difficult position. 
 
However, I think some of the costs Pinnacle is asking Ms N to repay arent fair or 
reasonable. Ive set them out below:
 
Legal costs  totalling £4,396.40. 
Pinnacle says it only incurred these legal costs  because  Ms N made a 
misrepresentation. But I think a court has already considered the matter of Pinnacles 
legal costs. Thats because the invoices Pinnacle provided as evidence of these 
costs are dated between  30 June 2017 and 23 November 2017,  before the court 
judgement it obtained against  Ms N on 28 November 2017.  And those invoices 
include court  fees costs  totalling £643. 
Ref: DRN87493434The judgement dated 28 November 2017 ordered  Ms N to pay 50% of Pinnacles 
fixed costs, which amounted to £321.50  in other words, 50% of its £643 court fees.  
Pinnacle says the £321.50 can be deducted from the legal costs its asking Ms N to 
pay, but a court has already considered Pinnacles legal costs and decided Ms N 
should only pay £321.50 of them, which shes already paid. So I dont  think its 
reasonable for Pinnacle to now ask Ms N to repay its full legal costs of £4,396.40.
 
Hire negotiator costs totalling £260  and motor  assessor costs  totalling £180
Pinnacle again says it only incurred these  costs because of Ms Ns misrepresentation 
and that its not her insurer. But I think these type of costs  are part and parcel of 
providing insurance. So even though the policy was avoided,  I dont  think  it would be 
fair for Pinnacle to pass these costs  to Ms N.
  
Debt recovery costs of £3,542.81 
There was only a month between Pinnacle informing Ms N of the debt and then 
passing it on to a debt collection agency.  Pinnacle says it tried calling her a couple of 
times and followed  with texts and email. Then,  when  Ms N responded and disputed  
the debt, Pinnacle  briefly  clarified what it was for. I think a month is an unreasonably 
short amount of time. 
And Pinnacle has explained that the debt collection fee is charged  at 18% of the 
amount being  pursued, a rate its not in control  of. But the debt collectors are acting 
on Pinnacles behalf and I think 18% is disproportionate and inappropriate in the 
circumstances, since Ive explained that some  of what  that 18% is based on  legal, 
hire negotiator and motor  assessor costs  isnt fair and reasonable. In any case, 
I note Pinnacle has now agreed to remove these particular debt recovery  costs.
 
Ill now address the refund of premiums.  The court judgement dated 28 November  2017  only 
mentions one misrepresentation, regarding the registered owner of the vehicle. It found that 
was an innocent misrepresentation  and it didnt make any direction about the premiums. As 
a court  has already considered this particular misrepresentation, I wont consider it further. 
But Pinnacle says Ms N made two other misrepresentations - that she gave it an incorrect  
home address and didnt tell it about the named drivers motoring convictions. The court  
order makes no mention of these  two misrepresentations, which leaves  the possibility that 
I could think about  whether  Pinnacle should refund  the premiums. 
However Ive thought  about what would be a fair and reasonable outcome overall, in all the 
circumstances of this particular complaint. A court found Ms N had made one 
misrepresentation. And Ms Ns named driver was liable for an accident that occurred while  
the policy was in force, so its not as simple as Pinnacle just avoiding  the policy. For these 
reasons, I dont think it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome to say Pinnacle should 
refund the premiums  Ms N has paid.
 
In summary,  I am not intending to ask Pinnacle to refund Ms Ns premiums.  And I think 
Pinnacle should remove the following costs  from what  it is seeking to recover  from Ms N:
legal  costs totalling £4,396.40
hire negotiator costs  totalling £260
motor assessor costs totalling  £180
Ref: DRN87493435debt recovery costs  of £3,542.81
So I leave it to Pinnacle and Ms N to agree repayment arrangements  for the £15,167.40  of 
claim and car hire costs.  Given what  Ms N has told us about her current  financial situation, 
she could find it helpful to contact an organisation that can provide her with support and 
advice about that, such  as StepChange  or Citizens Advice Bureau. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Pinnacle  Insurance Plc should 
remove the following  costs from what it is asking Ms N to pay:
legal  costs totalling £4,396.40
hire negotiator costs  totalling £260
motor assessor costs totalling  £180
debt recovery costs  of £3,542.81
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8749343