K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that esure Insurance  Limited  (esure) has declined  a theft claim he made on 
his home  insurance  policy. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2020. I explained that I wasnt  
intending to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
In May 2018  Mr L suffered a burglary which he reported to esure  his home 
insurance provider.  After carrying out some investigations, esure declined the claim. 
It said there was no evidence that force  and violence  was used to enter or exit the 
property, which the policy requires for theft cover to engage.
Mr L complains  that the policy wording  when he first took out the cover required  force  
or violence. He says esure didnt make  the change to this term sufficiently clear to 
him at the time it changed. So, he doesnt  think it is fair that his claim should  be 
declined based  on that term.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ls complaint. She initially didnt think  it 
should be upheld,  but changed  her opinion based  on points raised by Mr L. She then 
reverted to her original opinion based on further  points submitted by esure.
In our investigators final opinion she explained why she didnt think Mr Ls complaint  
should be upheld.  She agreed force had been used  during the theft but said there  
was no evidence of violence  used to enter or exit the property. She thought  esure 
had done enough to highlight the change to the force and violence exclusion,  under 
the buildings  cover, to Mr L. But she thought  that esure hadnt done  enough  to 
highlight the change to the contents cover, which happened the following year.  
Our investigator said that although the change to the contents cover wasnt made  
sufficiently clear, she didnt think Mr L wouldve have acted any differently  if it had 
been. This was because  she thought  the change to buildings cover  was made clear, 
and Mr L chose to keep the policy. Based on this she didnt think  it was likely that Mr 
L wouldve  sought  alternative contents cover had the change  been made  clearer.  So 
she thought the term would  still have  applied even if esure did everything it was 
supposed to do.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators  final opinion. So, because no agreement has 
been reached, the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85623952The key issues for me to decide are whether I think esures decision to decline  Mr Ls 
claim is in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it is fair and 
reasonable taking into account  the particular circumstances  of this case. 
In order to decide this there are two main  questions I need to answer:
Firstly, do I think  that force and violence were  most  likely used  to enter  or exit the 
property during the theft? If I decide that it was, then there  is no need to consider the 
second question  as the policy cover  should engage.
If I decide that it wasnt, I need  to consider whether its fair and reasonable for esure 
to rely on the force and violence  exclusion to decline  Mr Ls claim, taking into account  
Mr Ls arguments about whether the term was made  clear  to him when it changed.
Ill address each question in turn.
force and violence
esure has declined  Mr Ls claim on the basis that there is no visible evidence that 
force and violence was used  to enter  or exit his property.  His policy  contains an 
exclusion which, under  section 2. Theft  or attempted theft,  states:
Loss or damage:
..
 Where  no violence  and force is used  to enter  or leave the building
This term is intended to protect the insurer  from claims where the policyholder  has 
simply omitted to lock their door or window.
When investigating the claim, esure  instructed a firm of locksmiths  to attend the 
property and inspect  the doors and windows. The expert findings suggest  there  were  
no signs of any damage which  would indicate forcible and violent entry or exit from 
the building. It said an internal bedroom  door was forcibly and violently damaged,  but 
the policy requires  force and violence to be used when entering  or exiting the main  
building, not an internal  room.
Mr L has stated that the police  officer  who attended  the scene, suggested that entry  
could have been gained by using  a credit card to slip the lock on Mr Ls front door. 
Mr L argues that entry in this manner would constitute forcible and violent entry  and 
hes quoted guidance on our services  website to support  this.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ls argument here.  I agree that if there  were  some 
persuasive evidence  that entry to his property was gained in the way he suggests,  
that it would  meet the threshold of force and violence. I say this because I think a 
reasonable interpretation of force and violence is that it applies where an article  that 
exerts force  has been  used to gain unorthodox entry.
I asked esure to obtain an expert  opinion on how likely it was that Mr Ls door lock 
had been overcome in this manner.  esure  obtained a report  from a different firm of 
locksmiths who said the type of lock Mr L had could possibly be slipped with a credit 
card, in theory. But he said that in the case of Mr Ls actual door he felt this was 
unlikely because:
Ref: DRN85623953Looking at the frame  where the door closes against  it, the card would need to 
go in & effectively be bent 90 degrees, with sufficient  reach  & force to push 
the latch back in. In our opinion that would be highly unlikely with a credit 
card. It is not beyond  the realms of possibility for it to be possible with another  
type of implement, for example something  purpose-made  that a locksmith 
may have  at his disposal  but again this is a long shot, as is the theory  that 
the lock may have  been picked as it would  require a locksmith or someone 
with that kind of knowledge & experience to do so.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory,  I need to make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely based on the available 
evidence and arguments?
 
Mr L has suggested a possible  method  for how the thief gained entry. The expert 
evidence doesnt,  completely, contradict that this could be a possibility  although it 
does seem to suggest that a tool, rather than a credit card,  would have needed to be 
used. But other  than a suggestion that slipping the lock might be a possible 
explanation, I havent seen anything  to suggest  that this theory is any more likely 
than entry being  gained  another way, such as through an unlocked window or door. 
So, as the evidence suggests  that the possibility  the lock was slipped is no more 
likely than a window or door being  left unlocked, it doesnt  succeed on the balance of 
probabilities test.
The force and violence exclusion is designed for these types of situation. It is 
intended to protect  insurers  from liability for claims where there  is no evidence that 
the policyholder  hasnt  been careless. So, in these circumstances, I cant  fairly  
conclude that it was unreasonable for esure  to determine force  and violence hadnt 
been used to enter or exit the property.
change made clear at renewal
As I dont believe force  and violence was most likely  used to enter  or exit the 
property, I now need to decide  whether it is fair for esure to rely on this exclusion in 
the particular circumstances  of Mr Ls complaint.
I can see Mr L is correct to say that prior to 2012  his policy excluded loss or damage, 
as a result  of theft or attempted theft,  if force or violence wasnt used. Mr L argues 
that changing this term from or to and reduces the cover  from the broadest  to the 
narrowest possible.  So, he says esure  had a duty to draw this to his attention.
esure says it highlighted this change to the policy terms  in the renewal  
documentation it sent in 2012.  This renewal document opens with a bold and mostly 
underlined sentence  stating:
Please check this document very carefully
Then on page nine,  there is a box in the top left corner  of the page which states:
Please read this. It tells you about the changes  to your cover that will apply 
from your policy  renewal  date.
Ref: DRN85623954On page 10 under the heading,  Section A  Buildings it states:
Part B  Section  1  Peril 2  Theft or attempted theft  Exclusions  We 
have added the following exclusion:
Where no violence and force is used  to enter  or leave the buildings
Based on this renewal  document,  I think  the change to Mr Ls buildings cover was 
sufficiently drawn to his attention in 2012.  But at this stage, no change  was made to 
the contents theft exclusion. So at this point,  the policy  would have provided contents  
cover if force  or violence was used to enter  or exit the building.
The following  year,  esure  amended the contents  exclusion to match  the change  it 
made to the buildings cover. But it says it didnt include an update on the renewal 
schedule because it didnt  believe  this was necessary. It says it was simply amending 
the contents wording  to be more consistent  with the remainder of the policy  the 
buildings exclusion and contents away from the home exclusion. Our investigator 
didnt agree with this. She said this change  meant  Mr L would no longer be covered 
for circumstances  that he previously would have been. So, in her view,  esure ought 
to have done more to highlight this change to Mr L. 
Again, Ive thought very carefully about the arguments both sides  have put forward. 
Like our investigator,  I think esure ought to have done more  to highlight the change  
to the contents  exclusion  in 2013. But I also need  to consider whether I think this 
error has caused Mr L any detriment. And to do this, I need  to decide whether I think 
Mr L would  have acted  differently  had esure  made the change clear  enough  when it 
should have done. If I dont think Mr L would  have acted differently,  then he would 
have accepted the change and it is fair for esure to decline the claim based on the 
force and violence exclusion. 
esure has argued that given Mr Ls previous profession,  its reasonable to assume he 
carefully reads correspondence,  including renewal documents. But it says that when 
it first told Mr L it was intending the decline his claim, his point of contention was the 
definition of force and violence, and not that he thought he was covered for force or 
violence. esure argues that if the change to the exclusion would have influenced 
Mr Ls decision to accept  the cover, then this would  likely have been his primary 
argument at the time. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I think its unlikely Mr L would have acted differently 
had esure  included the change to the contents  exclusion  in the 2013 renewal 
document. I say this because esure  made the change to buildings cover clear  in 
2012 and Mr L has since accepted at least six renewals. I think its fair to say this 
indicates that Mr L has been happy to accept the change to the buildings cover. If a 
change to the force or violence  term was as important to Mr L as he now suggests, I 
think he wouldve questioned it at this stage, and/or sought alternative cover. But he 
didnt. So, given this, Im struggling  to see why he would have made a different 
decision on the contents cover.
Ref: DRN85623955Taking everything into account,  although  I agree that esure ought to have  done  more 
to highlight the change in contents cover to Mr L, I think he still wouldve kept the 
policy if it had. This means  he wouldve had the same cover in force  at the time of 
loss. The cover he had excludes loss or damage, to both buildings  and contents,  by 
theft or attempted  theft, unless force and violence were used to enter or exit the 
property. And Ive covered in the above  section that I dont think  its most  likely that 
they were.  So, Im currently of the opinion that esures decision to decline the claim 
based on this exclusion is both in line with the policy terms and fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision. 
Both sides provided responses  to my provisional decision. esure didnt have any further 
comments or evidence to add. But Mr L set out several reasons why he disagreed  with my 
findings. He did so under the same  subheadings Ive used in my decision.  To summarise he 
said:
force and violence
His previous occupation indicates that he is, perhaps, more aware than most of risk, 
and more likely to take steps  to reduce it. 
He took the precaution of securing the interior door, so says its extremely  unlikely he 
failed to secure the front door.
esures expert felt it was unlikely the lock was slipped  as it would require some 
knowledge and experience. He feels thieves make a living  by gaining entry so would 
inevitably try to gather such  knowledge  and experience.
Absence of proof that the door was locked doesnt prove it wasnt.
change made clear at renewal
His background has given him insight into risk management, and he doesnt agree 
that the change to the buildings and contents  terms had an equal or even similar 
impact on the risk.
When considering  the change  to the buildings term the effect  was nil or negligible. If 
entry to or exit from the building caused damage there would be physical evidence,  
and it would be covered. If there was no evidence of physical damage, there would 
be no damage and, therefore, no need to claim. He was prepared  to carry the minor 
risk of financial  consequences of this risk which he feels was essentially non-existent.
With contents he says the risk was his contents  sum insured which  is significant.  This 
change was crucial  and had it been drawn to his attention he would have 
immediately sought an alternative policy.
He believes,  at minimum, the contents claim should be paid. But he believes the only 
logical conclusion is that the lock was slipped and that the claim should be paid in 
full.
Ref: DRN85623956my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also carefully  considered the 
additional arguments put forward  by Mr L.
force and violence
I agree  that absence  of proof  that the door was locked doesnt prove that it wasnt. But as I 
said in my provisional decision, where evidence is contradictory, I need to decide on the 
balance of probabilities. And I dont think the available evidence suggests that the lock being 
slipped is any more likely  than a window or door being unlocked.
The force and violence exclusion is designed specifically for this purpose   to protect 
insurers from liability in situations  where  there is no clear evidence that the policy  holder 
hasnt been careless.  Im not saying the evidence shows that Mr L was careless. But equally,  
it doesnt show that he wasnt. So, in these circumstances, I think  it was reasonable for 
esure to determine  force  and violence hadnt been  used to enter  or exit the property,  as 
there is nothing,  beyond  a theory, to support that it was.
change made clear at renewal
Mr L indicates that he was aware  the buildings exclusion was changed, but that he was 
prepared to accept  any additional risk as it was negligible. He says he wouldve made  a 
different decision if the contents change had been  made clearer as the risk was significantly 
larger.  
Ive thought carefully about this. I accept  that, typically  speaking,  contents are more  at risk 
than buildings, during a burglary. But that isnt to say that buildings  arent at risk. It isnt 
uncommon for buildings to sustain significant  damage during a theft. This case is an 
example of that, as Mr L suffered damage to an internal door during  the theft.
Mr L says he wouldve sought alternative  cover  had esure been  clearer when it changed the 
contents exclusion. But I need  to consider  that this is his testimony now, around  six years 
later, with hindsight and full awareness of the implications for this claim.  There is no 
contemporaneous evidence to support that he would  have sought alternative cover as he 
suggests.
esure argues that if Mr L was aware  of the change to the buildings  cover as he suggests, 
that his immediate argument  at the time of the claim would  have  been  that the exclusion for 
contents only required theft or violence. But it wasnt, Mr Ls immediate argument was that 
theft and violence  was used. esure suggests that Mr L is only raising this argument in 
hindsight, having  reviewed his policy documentation.
As Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, where evidence is contradictory,  Ill 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  And in this case, I find Mr Ls testimony 
regarding the decisions he might have made at the time less persuasive  than the arguments 
put forward by esure. In other words,  Im not persuaded, on the balance  of probabilities, that 
Mr L wouldve made a different decision if esure  had been clearer about change to the 
contents exclusion at the time.
Ref: DRN85623957my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ls 
complaint against  esure Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8562395