K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about the way that ReAssure Limited handled his request to take his 
pension benefits  as a cash lump sum.
background
Mr N lives abroad but travelled back to the UK in 2017 to make arrangements for his pension  
with ReAssure, as he wanted to take his benefits as a cash  lump  sum. He wanted  to arrange 
this in a face-to-face  meeting, but was told the administration could only be done over the 
phone or through the post. 
Mr N was staying in a hotel at the time,  and the documentation he needed to complete  was 
sent there.  He returned this before leaving the UK to return home. ReAssure received Mr Ns 
paperwork but didnt  take any action with it until he called to find what  was happening. 
ReAssure apologised  for this and sent him a cheque for £90 in compensation.
But there was a further delay in processing Mr Ns request because of a change to his 
address two years before.  ReAssure  had known about this and asked him for certified 
documents and proof of his address. But he hadnt replied as he was coming to the UK to 
make the arrangements  for his pension.
This point  wasnt raised with Mr N while he was in the UK and was speaking  to ReAssure 
about his intentions for his pension. Mr N thought  this couldve been resolved easily if it had 
been mentioned  then.  It had also sent its letters about his earlier complaint, including  the 
cheque, to his old address.
Mr N sent ReAssure a copy of his passport that had been certified by an English  translator 
and a copy of his telephone bill to confirm his change of address details. Mr N hadnt  moved  
house, but his local authorities had renumbered the properties on his street,  meaning his 
house number  had changed.
However, ReAssure said these documents werent acceptable as the passport hadnt been  
certified by an authorised  certifier and didnt have  the correct confirmation;  and the 
telephone bill couldnt be translated, despite Mr N being told this would  be possible.
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  She 
thought that ReAssure was following the FCAs guidelines to ensure the pension  payment 
was made  to the correct person and to help detect  and prevent money  laundering.
She said ReAssure didnt have secure  meeting rooms in its office to accept  Mr Ns offer to 
visit its offices while he was in the UK. 
She said ReAssure became aware that it hadnt received the identification documents  it 
asked for in 2015 when processing Mr Ns request and needed these to go ahead with 
making the payment to him. It set out its requirements for this and the documentation Mr N 
sent didnt meet them.
Ref: DRN88093832Mr N didnt accept the adjudicators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said hed spoken  to a senior advisor who had told him they were fully familiar  with the details 
of his pension  and had told him there  were  no complicating issues. He had followed the 
instructions in the documentation he was sent and provided what  was asked for. He didnt 
think a secure meeting  room would be needed to check someones identification. He 
questioned why the certifier hed used wasnt acceptable and had been told his telephone 
bill could  be translated. He said the telephone  calls hed had with ReAssure were significant  
and should be listened to.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the relevant, available  call recordings from Mr Ns discussions with ReAssure 
while he was in the UK. And, from what Ive heard, there was no mention of there being an 
issue with Mr Ns address from either  ReAssures  representatives or Mr N himself. 
One the identification verification questions Mr N was asked during three  calls with different 
advisors was the first line of his address, and on each occasion  he gave this as the address 
ReAssure had on its records  with his previous house number  without  any reference to 
this no longer being the right address for him.
I accept that this its possible that this issue could have been  resolved while  Mr N was in the 
UK if it had been highlighted  and Mr N had acceptable proof of address with him. But I dont 
think this was necessarily  the fault of the representatives he spoke to in not mentioning it. I 
say this because  it may have been  that they werent  aware of it from the information  they 
had access to or were  viewing at the time to answer  Mr Ns queries. 
Mr N made  ReAssure aware that his house  number  had changed in 2015,  and it had written  
to him to confirm the information  it needed to update his details. Even though Mr N hadnt  
moved house and the change was caused  by the renumbering on his street, I dont think it 
was unreasonable for ReAssure to ask for verification of this change to ensure  the security  
of Mr Ns pension. However, Mr N didnt reply to ReAssure as he was already  looking to 
travel to the UK and perhaps  believed it would be able to be sorted more easily once here, 
or maybe  didnt need changing if he was looking  to take his pension.  Its clear from listening 
to the call recordings that at that time he was looking into moving  back  to the UK.
I appreciate that Mr N may not have realised the importance of the address being correct 
when he was speaking  with ReAssure about  his retirement options. But I think its 
reasonable to say that he wouldve been  aware that the address  it held for him wasnt  the 
correct one. And I think the representatives did look to help Mr N by sending  the details of 
his retirement options to his hotel in the UK. Ive seen  a copy of this letter and this does 
show the address  details  ReAssure still had for him. 
After receiving the retirement  options pack,  Mr N called ReAssure to request  the full 
encashment forms for his pension. These were then sent onto him at a different hotel hed 
moved to. But again  it doesnt seem that there  was any mention of his home  address being  
any different.
Ref: DRN88093833I do think that the service  ReAssure provided Mr N with couldve been better. It had received 
his returned forms  but hadnt logged them. This meant  it hadnt  acted on them when he 
phoned to find out what was happening  a month later. ReAssure acknowledged this and 
sent Mr N a cheque  of £90 as compensation.  But this was sent to his old house number and 
so he didnt receive it. 
Mr N has since  provided ReAssure with a copy of his passport and telephone bill to verify  his 
address and be able to take his pension benefits.  Hes said he was told that the telephone 
bill would be acceptable  and that it could be translated. But, since  receiving it, ReAssure has 
said it isnt able to translate  the bill. But, even if it could, his passport wasnt  certified by one 
of its authorised certifiers.
On my behalf, the adjudicator has sought  clarification from ReAssure about  whether 
confirmation of the renumbering of his street  from Mr Ns municipal authority would be 
acceptable. But it has confirmed this wouldnt be. So I can only refer Mr N back to 
ReAssures letters which set out its specific requirements and what  documentation  would  be 
acceptable.
Overall, although I do think there  were  times  that ReAssure couldve provided Mr N with a 
better level of service, these wouldnt have  added to the delay in him receiving his pension 
benefits when  its identification requirements havent  yet been met in regards to his address. 
ReAssure has looked to send Mr N £90 in compensation for the delay in processing his 
forms, and I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. I understand that he didnt receive 
this cheque, so I would expect ReAssure to send him a replacement as appropriate.
my final decision
I am aware  that ReAssure Limited has made  an offer to pay Mr N £90 in relation to his 
complaint. I think such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is 
that ReAssure  Limited should pay Mr N £90 if the cheque it has already issued to him hasnt 
already been deposited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8809383