K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Services  Ltd didnt notify him that it had 
recorded a County Court Judgement (CCJ) against  him. 
background
Mr E was in the process of purchasing a house.  Hes explained he found the interest rate on 
the mortgage he was offered too high to be acceptable. And later discovered that Lantern  
(previously known as Motormile Finance) had applied for a CCJ against  him which  was 
granted in August 2017. He complains that he wasnt aware of this. 
Lantern say they wrote  to Mr E and sent numerous text messages to his mobile phone 
number. Some of these  communications were sent by Lanterns legal partners. But as the 
legal partners were  representing Lantern, for ease of reading Ill just refer to Lantern in my 
decision.
Mr E has explained that Lantern  omitted the words basement flat from his address. Which 
meant any letters it sent wouldve been delivered to his neighbour, not him. And he says he 
didnt receive them.
Our investigator felt that Lantern had made reasonable efforts  to trace Mr Es address. And 
he noted that even if Mr E hadnt  received its letters, Lantern had also sent text messages to 
the same  mobile  phone number hed given to our service. So he felt Mr E ought reasonably 
to have been aware of the action  thatd been  taken  in relation to his debt. And said he hadnt 
seen any evidence Mr E had tried to contact Lantern to repay it.
Mr E disagrees with this view. He says the Post Office  holds  the correct  details  of his 
address. And that other banks and businesses have corresponded to the correct address. 
So the case has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr E will be disappointed,  but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  did here. Ill explain why.
Lantern purchased Mr Es account from a third party in December 2014. From what  Mr Es 
told us, I think he was aware he had a debt with this third party.  And to be clear, Im not 
considering the actions  of the third party here as they arent the subject of this complaint.
Lanterns explained that it took steps to try and contact Mr E at the address itd been  given 
for him by the third party  which  I think  was a reasonable thing for it do. But it didnt receive  
any response. So in December 2016 it asked its legal partners to take action to pursue 
recovery of his debt on its behalf. And its shown us it sent Mr E a letter  to notify  him of this.
Lantern then carried out enquiries and traced  a last known address for Mr E. Its shown us 
evidence of the subsequent steps  taken to contact Mr E at this address. I can see that it sent 
him two letters in January 2017 and a further letter in June 2017. A claim letter and a pre-
judgement letter were sent in July 2017. And after the CCJ was granted it sent him further 
letters in August, September and October 2017,  July 2018 and January 2019 before Mr E 
settled the debt in February 2019.
Ref: DRN80680072Mr E has complained that he didnt receive any letters from Lantern,  or any communication 
about the CCJ. I appreciate why hes frustrated about this and I can see he feels  strongly 
that Lanterns enquiries should have found  the full details  of his address. 
Lantern has provided us with evidence that its searches didnt reveal he resided at a 
basement flat, or that there was more  than one residence at the address. To support its case  
its shown us a screenshot from a search carried out with the Post Office. It says it also 
checked several websites that contain directory and property information. And has shown us 
evidence it verified  the data with a credit reference agency whose records indicated Mr E 
held three  other accounts linked to the address Lantern used. This persuades me that 
Lantern took reasonable steps to try to trace Mr Es address using a number of sources.
I note Mr Es comment that the Post Office address finder does currently show  that theres a 
basement flat at his residence. But I cant be certain it contained this information at the time 
Lantern carried out its searches. And even if it did, Lantern  has shown us other evidence 
linking Mr E to the main  address  it found  and not the basement flat. Mr Es also told us other 
businesses have contacted him at the correct address. It may well be that if these 
businesses had to take steps to trace his address they carried out different searches to 
Lantern. But I dont  think  that means Lantern acted unfairly here. As Ive said, I think the 
enquiries it made were  reasonable.
As well as writing to Mr E I can see Lantern took steps to contact him by other means.  It sent 
numerous text messages  to a mobile phone number it held for him. Its records indicate that 
a total of 15 text messages were sent to him between January  2017 and August 2017. 
Further text messages were also sent at regular intervals after the CCJ was entered. 
I can see the mobile phone number Lantern  sent these messages to matches the one Mr E 
gave to our service. So, on the balance of probabilities, I think  its more likely than not he 
would have received these messages and ought reasonably have  been  aware  Lantern  was 
trying to contact him about his debt, even  though  he hadnt received any letters.  
I know Mr E will be disappointed. But taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied that 
Lantern took reasonable steps to contact  him about  his debt. And to let him know  what  
action it was taking.  So I havent found that its treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8068007