K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (JD Williams)  havent refunded 
money to his account and that theyve  placed  a default marker on his credit  file.
background 
Mr F has an ongoing personal credit account with JD Williams. On 17 April 2018  he bought a 
laptop through them but it was faulty and he returned it on 6 august 2018. JD refunded some 
of the money  to his account but Mr F says that they didnt refund £250.
JD say they did and they provided the ARN  unique reference numbers that they said showed 
the transaction progressing from their bank to Mr Fs bank which is held by a company Ill 
call N.
But Mr F said he closed his account  with N before they received the money  and N confirmed 
that a review of his closed account  showed  there  hadnt been any receipts from JD. They 
explained that they had no current way of tracing  ARNs.
So as JD Williams were  still refusing to refund the £250 Mr F referred his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator noted that N had confirmed the funds were not in Mr Fs account 
and had provided proof Mr Fs bank account  with them was closed.  She thought, in those 
circumstances, that it was clear Mr F hadnt received his refund  so she thought it was fair to 
suggest JD Williams  pay it to him. 
She noted that Mr F had disputed the balance of £40 that was left on his statement and had 
been the cause of a default mark being placed  on his credit  file for non payment. She 
realised that JD Williams  had now removed that balance,  and the default  marker, but she 
thought it was therefore reasonable for them to pay Mr F an additional £100 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
But JD Williams  didnt agree with the investigator. They said their bank had provided the 
ARNs that explained the payment had been  made to Mr F so they were not convinced  that 
the Mr Fs bank had returned the £250 to them. They therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN88182272the missing £250
Mr Fs bank  has checked and explained that there is no record  of the money having been  
paid into Mr Fs account. So I think its clear he hasnt got it. 
The funds may lie in JD Williams account or they may be with Mr Ns bank. Im persuaded 
its most  likely that theyre not with Mr F. I dont  think, if theyre with N, they will be returned 
to Mr F, as Ns protocol  is to return the funds  to the sender. Therefore think it would be fair 
for JD Williams to refund the £250 to him as their bank has either already had the funds back 
or may receive them  in the future  but Mr F clearly wont.
the default marker
I can see that JD Williams  havent  been able to demonstrate where  the outstanding balance  
has come  from and have therefore, correctly,  removed the adverse credit markers.
In those circumstances its clear that Mr F has been  inconvenienced and Id therefore  agree 
with the investigator  that some compensation is required. In the circumstances I agree that 
£100 is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I tell J D Williams  & Company  Limited  to:
Refund £250 to Mr F.
Pay him £100 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  their actions 
have caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8818227