K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains about the discontinuation of the Onstar service which  is a feature of a car he 
purchased with finance from Vauxhall  Finance plc.
background
In September  2016 Mr Y was supplied with a car and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement. Mr Y chose  a car with the Onstar feature. Onstar  is an in-vehicle safety  and 
security feature. Mr Y says this was one of the main  factors in his decision to purchase  the 
car. He particularly likes the fact that he can check the tyre pressure, fuel level and mileage 
via the Onstar  app, as well as being  able to track the car in the event of a theft.  
Mr Y is unhappy that the Onstar service is being discontinued from December 2020.  He says 
he paid more for the car because it had this feature. He wants  £2500  removed from his 
balance as compensation.
In its final response,  Vauxhall Finance said that with effect from January 2019 it would stop 
equipping cars with Onstar hardware but that cars with the feature already installed would 
continue to receive the service until 31 December 2020. Vauxhall said that any services after 
that date would be provided  by itself and that it would  share  details of these soon. Vauxhall 
Finance declined Mr Ys request for £2500 to be deducted from his balance. It said there 
was no residual value  uplift for cars with the Onstar feature and therefore no negative impact  
expected with Onstar not being functional.
Mr Y wasnt  happy with the response so he complained  to this service. He feels that the 
finance agreement  was mis-sold.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that whilst he had no reason to doubt 
that Mr Y purchase the car because of the Onstar feature, there  was nothing to suggest that 
the dealership  knew, at the time when the agreement was entered into, that the Onstar 
feature would be discontinued in 2020.  Because  of this, the investigator said it wasnt 
possible to conclude that thered been a misrepresentation or that the agreement had been 
mis-sold. The investigator thought that a car with added  features such  as Onstar would be 
more attractive to a potential purchaser  than a car without added features, but said at this 
stage it wasnt possible to speculate  on how the discontinuance of the service  might affect 
Mr Y.
Mr Y didnt agree. He said he accepted  that Vauxhall wouldnt have known, at the point of 
supply, that the Onstar  service  would be discontinued. But he remained concerned about the 
impact that the discontinuance would have on him. He said his insurance premiums would 
increase but he didnt  know by how much this would  be until the renewal date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether the finance  agreement  was misrepresented to Mr Y. A 
misrepresentation is where  a false statement of fact is made and the false statement induces  
the consumer  into entering the agreement.
Ref: DRN82061952Ive looked at the agreement dated  September 2016 but it doesnt make any mention of the 
Onstar feature. So I cant say that Mr Y was given any contractual  assurances that the 
service would be available for the duration  of the contract.
I wasnt party to any discussions at the time when  the agreement was entered into, so I cant 
be certain of what Mr Y discussed with the salesman  regarding  the Onstar  feature. I think  its 
more likely than not that the Onstar feature was discussed and I have no reason to 
disbelieve Mr Y when  he says that the feature was one of the main reasons he entered  into 
the agreement. However, I havent  seen  anything to suggest that the dealership  made any 
false statements about the Onstar feature. I dont think the dealership knew  (or could have 
known) at the point  of supply that the Onstar service would be discontinued in 2020  or at any 
point in the future. Because of this, Im unable to conclude that there was a 
misrepresentation or that the agreement was mis-sold.
I appreciate Mr Ys strength of feeling about  the discontinuance of the Onstar  service. 
Vauxhall has said that it intends  to provide an alternative service  when the Onstar service is 
discontinued but it hasnt  announced details of this yet. In the meantime, I understand Mr Ys 
concerns about  the possible impact on the cars residual value and the potential  increase in 
his insurance premiums. However,  because theres likely to be a service  to replace the 
Onstar service, Im unable to safely conclude that the residual value of Mr Ys car will be 
adversely affected.  And whilst I can see why a tracker service  might impact on insurance 
premiums, at this stage it would be speculative to assume that Mr Ys premiums  are going to 
increase solely  as a result  of the discontinuance of the Onstar  service.
Taking everything into account,  and whilst I appreciate Mr Ys disappointment, I wont  be 
asking Vauxhall  Finance  to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8206195