K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
Background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2007 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £328 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Bs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £19.52  a 
month. The policy benefit was split between  Mr and Mrs B and it wouldve paid £229.60 if 
Mr B was unable to work and £98.40 if Mrs B was unable to work. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a manager.  When Mr B brought this complaint to us, he 
told us he didnt have  any sick pay provided  by his employer. But his mortgage application 
form shows hed told Santander  that he was entitled  to 8 weeks  full sick pay plus half pay  
as this is evidence  from the time of sale, I think its more likely to reflect his circumstances at 
the time.  He also says he didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage  should he 
be unable to work.  Mr B has said he was in good health at the time of the sale. 
Mrs B was employed as a waitress. Mrs B also told us she didnt have any sick pay provided 
by her employer, but again their mortgage application form shows  she was entitled  to 8 
weeks full sick pay and half pay. For the same  reasons explained  above,  I think thats more 
likely to be right. Shes also told us she didnt have any other means of repaying their 
mortgage should she be unable to work. Mrs B has said she was in good health at the time 
of the sale. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in December 
2007. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
Ref: DRN80685552claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
Ref: DRN80685553regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Santander  Code of Practice 
for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Santander Code  of Practice for Telephone Sales,  Direct  
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of Santander  rules  (MCOB)  are applicable  to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
Ref: DRN80685554-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs B, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs B 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Santander has sent us a copy  of a mortgage  review  it completed during a meeting it had with 
Mr and Mrs B in branch.  In it, Santander recommended they take PPI and made a note that 
Mr and Mrs B had accepted the recommendation  this has been signed by Mr and Mrs B to 
confirm theyd read the review and confirmed it was correct.  Their application form also has 
an electronic tick next to the option  requiring  PPI, but there was an option  available to say 
they didnt require PPI. 
Ive also seen a copy of their key facts document which had a separate  section for 
insurance. This clearly  explains that they didnt  need  to take out any insurance other than 
buildings insurance  and the PPI was set out under the subheading Optional Insurance.  
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr and Mrs B knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Mr and Mrs B didnt  say whether Santander  advised  them to take the PPI. Santander says it 
provided advice  during  this sale and looking at what happened when Santander sold Mr and 
Mrs B the PPI, Im persuaded  that it provided  advice.  
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Santander took some steps  to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
Ref: DRN80685555recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser  had information about some of Mr and 
Mrs Bs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. But although a financial 
review form was completed to try and establish  whether  Mr and Mrs B had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about their wider circumstances such  as any employee benefits 
and existing means  I dont think it did enough  to ensure the PPI was suitable.  I say this 
because it didnt for example appear to ask whether Mr or Mrs B had any known health  
issues. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
and Mrs B were not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
employee benefits they would have been  entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And they havent told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  their ability to claim.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs B be disabled or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 30-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs B 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Ref: DRN80685556Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs B were  unable to work through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because their signed  mortgage review 
document gave  them  a brief explanation  of what the policy covered, and it set out the cost 
and benefit for them. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the 
policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs B all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a Santander when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Bs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the Santander should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the Santander rather  
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the Santander shouldnt  have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs B. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr 
Ref: DRN80685557and Mrs B suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or 
not Mr and Mrs B would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done  things properly.  
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs B were  given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. The mortgage review  document set out the cost,  the total benefit amount  
and the proportionate  split that Mr and Mrs B would get if they made  a claim. So I think they 
had a reasonable understanding  of what they would get back in return  in the event they 
made a successful claim. But the information  about other aspects of the policy, such  as 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.   
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs B knew 
about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy.  It also 
excluded claims that were caused  by conditions that Mr and Mrs B had sought  
advice, treatment or counselling about in the 12 months prior to the sale of the policy.  
Although, this exclusion would not apply if Mr or Mrs B remained symptoms  free for 
24 months prior to a claim being  made. 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Ref: DRN80685558The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do their own job, or any other work for which they were reasonably 
qualified to do, as certified  by a doctor 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs B were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 Mr and Mrs B didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions and were in employment. So, 
I still think they had some good  reasons  to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and 
Mrs B might reasonably have expected.  But its unlikely they would have expected to be able 
to make a disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  
And while this limitation might have dissuaded  some  consumers in slightly different  
circumstances to Mr and Mrs B from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs B, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job or any other work for which they were  reasonably qualified to do, it might  have 
played into their thinking  about  what they would have done. And I accept it may have given  
them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have been  overly concerned 
given that if Mr and Mrs B were unable  (through disability) to carry on their own occupation 
the chances that they would be able to take up a similar occupation  would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs B that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 
12-month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might  have hoped for, 
but they had limited other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs B be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensuring their home was 
not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs B were made redundant, or 
Ref: DRN80685559unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs B found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs B, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2007  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ref: DRN806855510Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 November  2020.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8068555