K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limited  for declining his claim under his legal 
expenses policy. Where  I refer to Aviva, this includes its agents, representatives and claims 
handlers.
background
Mr D made  a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs of bringing action for professional 
negligence. Aviva referred the claim to one of its panel of solicitor firms. This firm then 
passed the case to counsel for a legal assessment. Counsel assessed the claim based on 
the information provided by Mr D and his legal representative, as well as holding  a telephone 
conference with them. Following this, counsel concluded that the claim didnt satisfy  the 
policys terms and conditions. So, Aviva  declined cover.
Mr D didnt accept the decision. He said the barrister failed to take account  of all his 
evidence and didnt  answer all the points  put to him. Mr D wants Aviva to fund a further 
assessment of the claim which  answers  all evidence hes put forward.  Mr D was also 
unhappy with delays in getting  responses. He brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Aviva was entitled to rely 
on the legal  advice it had obtained.  He felt Aviva had handled  the claim reasonably. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that Aviva  had caused any unreasonable delays. Mr D didnt accept 
this and so his complaint has been passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its a fairly standard legal expenses requirement for any intended claim  to have both a 
reasonable prospect of succeeding and is proportionate to pursue. In this case the policy  
says that for cover to be provided  it must  be more likely than not that Mr D will recover 
damages which are higher than the costs  and expenses which may be incurred in pursuing 
the claim.
I think all parties  accept  court action  can be expensive. I dont think a privately paying 
customer would want to bear the cost if advised  a case is unlikely to succeed. So, although 
we expect insurers to act reasonably and fairly this service wouldnt expect a legal expenses  
insurer to go against the advice it gets and face high costs in claims that wont succeed.
Where an insurer has declined funding  in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying  claim. Instead we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it 
has got advice  from suitably qualified legal experts, we wont generally question  its reliance  
on that advice.  The only time thats likely  to be challenged is if we think the advice was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes.
Im satisfied that Aviva has acted  reasonably  here. It sought  advice from a barrister who is 
experienced in the relevant area of law. Aviva is generally entitled to rely on the advice and 
Im not aware of any reason  why it shouldnt have done so in this case. When  Mr D 
disagreed with the advice, Aviva allowed him to provide further  information  to counsel and 
funded a telephone  conference between  the parties.  To me this shows  that Aviva did give 
Ref: DRN88497322the case suitable consideration and that it acted fairly and reasonably. Mr D raised further 
points and issues, and these were taken into account. Thats fair.
Mr D said the barristers  advice didnt address all his evidence and the questions he raised.  
But I dont think thats the intention of the legal assessment. The assessment  is obtained for 
the benefit of Aviva  to determine  whether the claim will meet  the policy terms and criteria. 
The purpose of the assessment is to allow insurers to make decisions about which cases  
can be taken further and which ones cant.  I dont think the legal expert  providing  the advice 
has to speak to directly to the end customer nor do they have  to answer  their questions.
Mr D is also unhappy about the amount of delays he said he had to contend with. I dont 
think there were significant delays  caused by Aviva. I can see that there  was a problem 
specifically after the conference call, but Aviva  regularly chased counsel  and I dont  think it 
could be expected to do any more.
I think Aviva  acted reasonably in declining to fund any further opinions. And I understand 
that the barrister  has confirmed he will not revisit  this case. As Mr D continues  to disagree 
with the outcome of his claim, he will need  to consider what other  action he wishes to take 
but thats likely to be at his own cost.  If Mr D gets advice and action that supports his case  at 
that point, Id expect  Aviva to reconsider cover and costs under the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8849732