K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about what  Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  did when she told it 
shed sent a payment to the wrong account by mistake. 
background
Mrs H said that she made  a mistake when  sending an online payment. She said she realised 
that within moments of sending it, but she was told to wait for it to bounce back. She said 
that shes now found out that the person  who received the money  has spent it. 
Halifax said that it didnt  think it had made  a mistake.  It had received a call from Mrs H after 
shed sent the money to the wrong account. It had told her it would contact the other bank 
and try to get the money back, but that it couldnt  guarantee that. And it told her that if there  
was no account  with that number, then the money  might bounce back. 
Halifax said that Mrs H had rung again  about  an hour later and it had explained the same  
process. That call handler checked the details Mrs H had previously given, which  were  right.  
Halifax later passed  on a message from the other bank, saying Mrs Hs money had been 
spent by the recipient. That person had made  an offer to pay Mrs H back over time, but 
Mrs H didnt want to accept it. Halifax said that it had passed on Mrs Hs message asking the 
person to pay all the money back,  but again  it couldnt guarantee that this would be possible. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said he couldnt agree that a call handler 
was rude to Mrs H. And he said that hed seen evidence to show that Halifax had asked the 
other bank  to try to get the money  back. He appreciated  that the offer that had been made 
wasnt ideal  for Mrs H, but he thought that Halifax had done  everything  he would expect it to. 
Mrs H said that she was upset and unhappy  with the conclusion.  She said that if the person 
who received the money hadnt  spent  it, it wouldve been there to pay her back. She said 
that shed never paid this person before, it was clearly a mistake.  She didnt understand why 
there was no help for her, and she felt thoroughly let down by Halifax. 
Our investigator still didnt  think Halifax had made  a mistake. Halifax  isnt responsible  if a 
person who receives  money by mistake  then spends it. Mrs H wanted  her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Our investigator  explained that the process  Halifax  had 
followed was set by the regulator, and he passed this case  to me for a final decision
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it I 
part. This is what I said then: 
-When someone sends  a payment to the wrong account, it cant just be stopped.  So 
Halifax was right when it told Mrs H that. 
-But that doesnt mean that theres  nothing at all that banks can do. They do have  a set 
process for dealing  with mistaken  payments. The banks have agreed that the sending  
bank will get in touch  with the receiving  bank within a maximum of two working days. 
And the sending bank  can, where it thinks that there is clear evidence  of a genuine  
mistake, ask the receiving bank to freeze the money in the receiving bank account. 
Ref: DRN89490782-Both the sending bank  and receiving bank have a role to play, under this agreement, in 
trying to make sure that money sent by mistake  is recovered. And our service  can ask 
both sides what has happened. I did that, in this case. But this complaint was just about  
Halifax. So if the receiving  bank had delayed, and thats why Mrs Hs money hadnt been  
recovered, then I wouldnt ask Halifax to do anything  to make up for that.
-Our investigator asked Halifax to show us it had contacted the receiving bank as soon as 
Mrs H told Halifax  shed sent money to an incorrect account. Halifax said it contacted  the 
other bank on the next working  day, 27 March. But the only evidence it sent us was an 
email to the other bank dated  28 March,  at 11.56am. And the reply  Halifax  sent us also 
said that Mrs H made this mistaken  payment on 25 March, when we knew  it was made 
on 26 March.
-We asked Halifax about  this again,  and it said that the mistaken payment investigation 
was set up for Mrs H on the morning  of 27 March, but it confirmed that it didnt contact 
the receiving bank until 11.56am on 28 March. 
-Halifax contacted  the receiving bank  within the timescales that banks have agreed to 
work to in these  circumstances.  But I thought  that almost  two days was still a long time 
for Mrs Hs money to be in someone elses bank account, without the receiving bank 
having been told about this. 
-The receiving bank  can sometimes freeze the money  in the recipients  bank account  to 
stop them from spending money which may not be theirs. And I could see that when 
Halifax told the receiving  bank  about the mistake, it also asked  that bank to protect Mrs 
Hs money. I thought  that Halifax did the right thing when it did that. If the money was 
spent after Halifax had asked  the receiving bank  to protect Mrs Hs money, I didnt  think  
that would  be Halifaxs fault.
-But it wouldnt help, for Halifax to ask the receiving  bank  to freeze  the money, if it had 
already been spent.  So I thought it was really  important for Halifax to act quickly. And I 
hadnt been given any reason why Halifax didnt tell the receiving bank about this 
mistake at the same time as it opened a mistaken transaction  investigation  for Mrs H. 
-I thought carefully  about what Halifax did in this case. And I did think Halifax  opened an 
investigation for Mrs H within a reasonable timescale. But I didnt think  it was reasonable 
for Halifax to then take over 24 hours to tell the receiving  bank  about  this mistake. 
-That meant I needed to consider what impact this delay had. So we asked the receiving 
bank to tell us when the money  was withdrawn.  It sent us details of what happened. 
-A small  amount of money  was taken out overnight, after Mrs H had told Halifax about the 
mistake, but before it had opened an investigation for her. I didnt think  Halifax had to 
open an investigation for Mrs H immediately, so I didnt  think  it was Halifaxs  fault that 
this small amount of money was taken  out before  the receiving bank knew about the 
mistake. 
-I could also see that most of the money  was taken out after Halifax  had told the receiving 
bank about the mistake. Id explained  that I didnt think it was Halifaxs responsibility if 
the money was spent  then. 
Ref: DRN89490783-I didnt think that Halifax had to pay Mrs H back any money that was spent before the 
investigation was opened for her, or after it told the receiving bank  about  the mistake. 
-But I could also see that some money was taken out after Halifax had opened an 
investigation into Mrs Hs mistaken  transaction, but before it told the receiving bank 
about the mistake. 
-I thought it was fair, in these circumstances, to ask Halifax  to pay back  the money  that 
was taken out from the receiving  bank account  between the time when Halifax  opened 
an investigation for Mrs H, and when it told the receiving bank about the mistake.  I said 
Id ask Halifax to pay Mrs H that amount, which was £119.46.
-Id decided that Halifax wasnt responsible for the rest of the money that has gone  
missing. But that wouldnt  necessarily  mean that the receiving bank  was responsible  for 
that. If Mrs H wanted to complain about that, then it would  be for the relevant 
ombudsman to decide whether our service considers the receiving  bank was responsible  
for any of Mrs Hs remaining  loss.
-I was also aware  that this case caused  Mrs H some distress.  I thought that mistakes  like 
this would always be very stressful, and in particular it mustve  been very distressing for 
Mrs H to find out, after the money was sent,  that her mistaken payment couldnt just be 
reversed. But, having considered the whole of this case carefully, I didnt think that 
anything that Halifax did has increased the distress to Mrs H. So I wouldnt ask Halifax  to 
pay Mrs H compensation, on top of the money Ive asked  it to return  to her.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mrs H acknowledged receipt  of the decision, and asked about next steps. Halifax wrote to 
object.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Halifax wanted me to reconsider. It said that guidelines say that when its told about a 
misdirected payment, it has 48 hours to set up a case and respond. It said Mrs Hs case  was 
set up on the first business day and the receiving  bank was contacted within the 48 period. 
Halifax has explained its internal processes, which it says means that it didnt delay in 
notifying the receiving  bank  of this misdirected payment.  It said thats just how long it takes. 
And Halifax has stressed that it acted in good  faith.  I wouldnt want anything I have said in 
this case to be interpreted  as suggesting  otherwise. 
Halifax said that it didnt  think it should  be blamed for some  of this money being lost, if it had 
worked within the timescales  set out in the agreement its reached  with other banks  for 
recovering missing money. It said that the receiving bank had taken some time to reply,  but 
said that this may have  been because it had been  notified about the problem immediately 
before the Easter weekend. It told the receiving bank about the problem on 28 March. Friday  
30 March 2018  and Monday 2 April 2018 were  bank holidays.
A summary  of the agreement thats  been reached between  banks  about  missing payments is 
available online.  That information says that your bank will commence action on your 
Ref: DRN89490784behalf within a maximum of two working  days. I dont have any reason to think thats not an 
accurate summary  of the agreement. 
Because the agreement says that the bank will take action within  a maximum of two 
working days, that doesnt seem to me to suggest that as long as this is done within  two 
working days, theres no other urgency about  this. I think it means  what it says, which is that 
two working days is the longest a bank can take. So I dont think  that means,  as Halifax  
seems to be suggesting, that Halifax will be beyond reproach unless its gone over that 
maximum time. 
And in this case, Halifax itself has alerted us to a reason why it wouldve been  particularly  
helpful, in the circumstances of this case,  if it had been able to work a little faster. It has 
pointed out that it told the receiving bank about the misdirected payment just before a long 
bank holiday  weekend.  
Halifax said that it didnt  agree that the outcome  wouldve  been  different if the receiving bank 
had received the information on 27 March  2018, because it didnt respond until after the 
bank holiday  weekend.  It hasnt commented  on whether the receiving bank wouldve been 
likely to respond earlier, if it had been  notified  earlier. 
I do accept that we cant ever know for sure if an earlier  notification  sent to the receiving  
bank by Halifax wouldve  made a difference in this case. For that, and the other reasons Ive 
set out here, this isnt a clear-cut case. But Ive considered all the circumstances  of this case 
carefully, including the amounts of money involved,  and I still think, in the particular 
circumstances of this case,  that its reasonable to ask Halifax to pay Mrs H the amount of 
money that went missing  between it opening  a case for her on the morning of 27 March, and 
it contacting the receiving  bank at 11.56am on 28 March.
my final decision
My final decision is Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) must pay Mrs H £119.46.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8949078