K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Everyday Loans Limited mis-sold him the following insurance policies with a 
personal loan:  
A regular  premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy (policy one).
Single premium life and critical illness insurance  (CIC) policies (policies two and 
three).
background
Everyday Loans  arranged a loan for Mr H  between him and a third party lender  in 2009 
and also sold him policies one to three.
 
Policy one protected Mr Hs monthly loan repayments if he couldnt work due to accident,  
sickness or unemployment. Policy two paid out a lump  sum if Mr H died during the term of 
the policy and policy three paid out a lump  sum if he was diagnosed with a specified critical 
illness during  the term. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
PPI sale
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I cant say for sure what  was said when  Everyday Loans sold Mr H the loan and the PPI. But 
weve been sent a copy of the original loan agreement Mr H signed  in 2009. My 
understanding of the process  is that consumers normally agreed  the loan details over the 
phone first and then went into an office  premises  to finalise the matter and sign the forms 
once the loan had been approved. From  experience, thats  when the PPI was usually sold.
I think Mr H would have been able to see he didnt need to buy the PPI if he didnt want to. 
This is because there was a box on Mr Hs credit agreement headed Repayment Protection  
Insurance and including  the statement I/We  wish to purchase Repayment Protection 
insurance. A tick was placed in the box next to it. I note there  was an equally prominent  box 
below this to tick to decline PPI  and this was left unmarked.
So I think Mr H agreed to the PPI knowing he didnt have to and that it was separate  to the 
loan.
This was an advised  sale so it was for Everyday  Loans to check whether the PPI was 
suitable for Mr H. Broadly, I think it probably  was. He appears  to have been eligible for the 
cover and not affected by any of the major  policy exclusions. Mr H was only entitled to 
Ref: DRN85907532statutory sick pay whereas the PPI paid out on top of that and potentially  until the end of the 
loan. It covered him for unemployment too. Having  looked at his situation, I think the PPI 
could have been of use to him and was affordable  for him. So I dont think the 
recommendation to have  PPI was unsuitable.
Everyday Loans  also had to make sure the information it provided about the PPI was clear, 
fair and not misleading. I cant say, after this length of time,  what  was actually  discussed  
between the parties  but I think the way Everyday Loans calculated  the monthly PPI premium 
was quite complicated. 
The cost of the PPI policy  was calculated  as a percentage  of the loan balance  outstanding 
each month. This meant that the cost couldnt  be shown as an accurate monthly premium at 
the time of sale because  consumers paid more for their PPI at the beginning of their loan 
(when the balance  was higher) than at the end (when the balance  was lower). So 
Everyday Loans  expressed the PPI charges as an average monthly  amount.
While I dont think this would have  been very clear to Mr H, taking everything  into 
consideration, I dont  think this would have changed  his mind about buying  the PPI. This is 
because the PPI premiums charged by calculating them  in this way were relatively low.
Put another way although  the information Everyday Loans gave Mr H could have been 
better, when  taking  everything into account  including the overall suitability  of the PPI, I think  
he would  have still bought it even with better  information. 
commission
Everyday Loans,  on behalf of the lender, has made  an offer to Mr H regarding  the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) rules and guidance for financial businesses to follow  in 
dealing with PPI complaints.  Im unable to comment on the offer other than to ask Mr H to 
contact Everyday Loans if he has any further  questions or wishes to accept it. 
life and CIC sale
As with the PPI, I dont know for sure what was said at the time of the sale.  But the loan 
agreement indicates  Mr H opted  to take out both of these  policies  by ticking the relevant 
boxes and signing separately for them.
The CIC potentially provided Mr H with something  he didnt already have: a lump  sum that 
would have allowed  him to clear  his loan in the event of his diagnosis of a critical illness.  And 
although it seems he already had some existing life cover, the information  recorded by the 
adviser at the time suggests  he was happy  to take out additional cover to provide support for 
his growing family. I gather both policies were  set up to match  the 36-month term of Mr Hs 
loan. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think these policies were unsuitable for Mr H or that 
better information about them would  have put him off taking them  out.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN85907533Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8590753