K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 January 2019, a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a 
final decision. Neither Mrs M nor Halifax sent me anything further to consider.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached  the same conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision, for the same reasons.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 2004. Mrs 
M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
Ref: DRN82004682my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
I currently think the policy  wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs M said the optional nature of the policy was not made  clear and she was under  the 
impression that the PPI was a condition of the credit. Halifax has said it would have made  the 
optional nature  of the policy clear and would  have  got Mrs Ms consent to add the policy. Where 
theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on what  I think  is most likely  
to have happened  taking into account all the evidence  thats available.
Halifax has been able to provide an unsigned copy  of Mrs Ms credit card application. Mrs Ms 
personal details have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected   
whilst other equally prominent products have not. From what  we know more  generally about how 
Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely there would have been a conversation with the 
Halifax representative about PPI prior to the details being entered on the application. 
Because the copys unsigned, I cant say for sure that Mrs M saw it. But, on balance, I think its 
more likely  than not that she would have signed some  paperwork in taking out the credit card and 
that its likely  that what she did sign looked very much like, if not the same as, the application 
provided by Halifax.
So overall I think  Halifax  made Mrs M aware that she had a choice about  buying  the PPI, and she 
agreed to take the policy at the time. 
From what I have read and been told I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible  the information Halifax  gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like 
it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including  what  she has told us about her sick pay. Mrs 
M has said she wouldve got six months full followed by six months  half sick pay. But this policy 
couldve paid Mrs M a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if she was unable to work and this 
wouldve been  in addition to any sick pay Mrs M mightve  had. It wouldve also covered her if she lost 
her job for up to 12 months too. So I think she couldve  found the policy  useful.  And these points dont 
change my decision.
This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund  everything Mrs M 
paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think 
it needs  to do anything more. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  mentioned  above, Im currently not intending to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN8200468