K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1994 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds  Bank  PLC mis-sold them  the PPI. 
Its been agreed in this case  that Lloyds Bank PLC, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep  things simple, Ill refer to Lloyds as the seller in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Mr C was the only person  covered by the PPI so I have mainly considered his circumstances 
at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs C aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Theres limited information available from the sale of the 
PPI in 1994. But this isnt unusual as businesses arent required to keep  this type of 
information indefinitely.  With the limited information available  from the sale I am unable to 
say that Mr and Mrs C werent given a choice in taking the PPI. So I cant uphold  their 
complaint for this reason.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for Mr and Mrs C if something went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
Ref: DRN81455512my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8145551