K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited didnt act promptly  or satisfactorily  
when he told it hed been a victim of fraud.
 
background
In January 2018 Mr R took receipt of a laptop that he didnt order. Shortly  after it arrived, 
someone knocked on his door to say theyd  come to collect  it because itd been delivered to 
the wrong person. He didnt hand over the laptop,  but instead contacted the company that 
had sent it and arranged to return it.
Mr R also contacted Omni Capital to let it know what had happened  and told it that the 
laptop had been returned. In April he received  an arrears letter.
Omni Capital  said that when it received  the application for finance there was nothing  to alert 
it to any suspicious activity. After  Mr R told it about what  had happened,  it investigated, 
closed the account and arranged to remove any sign of it from the credit  reference agencies. 
It also offered to pay Mr R £20 as a gesture  of goodwill.
Our adjudicator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said that, even though  Omni 
Capital had accepted that the purchase and loan application was fraudulent, its investigation  
had taken far longer than it should have done.  It had also sent a collection letter,  so he felt 
Mr R was justified in monitoring  his credit file to ensure the appropriate  corrections were  
made. Given further delays, he thought Omni Capital should pay Mr R a total of £195.
Mr R responded to say, in summary, that he didnt think £195 was enough to compensate 
him for all the hassles  hed had over his credit rating.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Omni Capital has accepted that Mr R didnt  order the laptop, and that the loan application 
wasnt made by him, I dont consider that I need  to investigate how this happened, only what 
steps Omni  Capital took to put matters right.
Mr R told it in January 2018 what had happened.  Yet it doesnt  seem to have started its 
fraud investigation until two months later, after Mr R had complained  about  the collections 
letter hed received. During  this time,  information about the loan had been recorded on Mr 
Rs credit  file and his credit rating fell from excellent  to fair.
I see that Omni Capital  told Mr R in June  2018 that it accepted  that the application was 
fraudulent, and told him it was closing the account  and removing any trace  of it from the 
credit reference agencies.
Mr R has provided copies  of letters from one of the credit reference  agencies, sent in 
October 2018, to show that Omni Capital hadnt contacted it to instruct  it to remove  the 
entries. But Ive seen a copy  of the instructions it sent to the credit  reference agency in June 
2018. Although  I cant say why the credit  reference  agency told Mr R that it hadnt received 
any instructions, I cant conclude that Omni  Capital made any mistake here. In February 
Ref: DRN811375322019, Omni Capital  again confirmed that it had chased up to have all entries about the 
account removed  from Mr Rs credit  file.
Overall I dont consider  the service Omni Capital provided was up to the standard Mr R 
should have been able to expect. Once  Omni Capital had accepted that Mr R hadnt  applied 
for a credit facility Id have expected it to immediately close  the account and make sure his 
credit file didnt reflect  that activity.  But it took it almost six months to do this. So I accept this 
delay has caused  Mr R unnecessary distress  and inconvenience at an already upsetting 
time. 
In complaints of this type, the role of this service is to ensure that a customer affected by any 
mistakes by a financial institution  is put back into the position theyd have been in had those 
errors not been  made.  
Omni Capital  has shown that its  since instructed  the credit reference agencies  to remove  all 
the entries from Mr Rs credit file. As Ive explained, it should have done  this far sooner than 
it did. Its now offered £150  for the upset these delays caused, and £45 to cover  the costs  of 
Mr R monitoring  his credit  file for three months.  Ive thought about  the scale and impact of 
the error,  how long it has taken to resolve and how the complaint was handled and I think 
this is fair. So I wont be asking Omni Capital to do anything else.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Omni Capital Retail  Finance  Limited  
to apologise to Mr R and pay him £195.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8113753