K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Covea Insurance Plc refused to pay a claim and cancelled  his 
motor insurance policy  as if it hadnt existed (known  as voidance).
In bringing this complaint Mr S has had the assistance of professional  representatives. But 
for ease  Ill refer to the representatives  comments as being those of Mr S.
background
Mr S car was destroyed in a fire. He claimed on his policy. While Covea was looking into the 
claim it found out that Mr S had a conviction for refusing to give a breath test (DR70). Covea 
thought that Mr S either  deliberately or recklessly withheld that information. It said that if hed 
told it about the conviction it wouldnt ever have offered him the policy.  So it refused to pay 
his claim and cancelled  the policy as if it had never  existed.
Mr S brought his complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator thought Covea had acted  
reasonably. Mr S didnt  agree so his complaints been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr S has made a number of detailed points. And Ive considered 
everything hes said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding points following our adjudicators assessments of Mr S complaint.
was it fair for Covea  to void the policy?
Its not in dispute  that Mr S had the DR70 conviction. Mr S initially  applied for the policy 
through a comparison  website.  And during that process he was asked a clear question  about 
whether hed committed any motoring offences or been given  any fixed penalty notices in the 
previous five years. Mr S disclosed an offence  of driving while  using a mobile phone  (CU80) 
but didnt mention the DR70. And when Covea learned about the DR70  it voided Mr S 
policy.
Mr S said that it wasnt reasonable for Covea to void the policy on the grounds of fraud. But 
I dont think Covea voided the policy because  of fraud. And as fraud is generally a criminal 
matter, subject to the jurisdiction of the courts and not this office, its not something  that I 
intend to attempt to determine. My role is to decide whether Covea has treated Mr S fairly 
and reasonably.
As far as Im aware Coveas reason for voiding Mr S policy was because  he made whats  
known in the insurance industry as a misrepresentation. That is he failed to take 
reasonable care, having been asked a clear  question, to answer  it while applying for the 
policy. There is specific legislation, the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) which sets out what an insurer  may do where a 
consumers made a misrepresentation. It says that where, but for that misrepresentation, an 
insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract, otherwise known as the policy, it may 
refuse any claim and void the policy.
Ref: DRN88882842Coveas shown us evidence from its underwriting criteria that if it had known about the DR70  
it wouldnt ever have  offered Mr S the policy. So, under the remedies CIDRA offers  it for 
Mr S misrepresentation it was entitled  to void the policy. And thats the case  regardless of 
the whether that misrepresentation was deliberate, reckless or careless.  
Mr S has provided comments from an insurance professional  which argue that a DR70 
shouldnt be an unacceptable insurance risk. But were not the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) is. So it doesnt  fall to me to tell an insurer  what risks it 
should or shouldnt accept  when  offering polices. And as long as they treat people  fairly, that 
is they treat consumers  with similar circumstances  in the same  way, thats something 
insurers are entitled  to do for themselves. 
In this case Covea  has decided that it doesnt wish to offer the policy  concerned to drivers 
with a DR70 conviction within the previous five years. Thats  a decision its entitled to make, 
regardless of what others  in the insurance industry  might think. So I dont think  its acted 
unfairly in following its underwriter criteria.
Mr S didnt disclose that he had the DR70 conviction  when he applied for the policy, and I 
think his failure to do that was a misrepresentation. And as Covea wouldnt ever have 
offered him the policy I think it was reasonable that it voided it and refused to pay Mr S 
claim.
was it fair for Covea  to keep Mr S premium?
CIDRA says that if a misrepresentation  is deliberate or reckless  then as well as voiding the 
policy Covea may keep the premium Mr S paid for it. But had it decided the 
misrepresentation was careless - rather than deliberate or reckless - then it would have 
voided the policy but returned Mr S premium.
Covea felt that Mr S deliberately or recklessly made a misrepresentation, so it didnt refund 
Mr S premium. Mr S initially told Covea that he didnt know  that he had the DR70 conviction. 
But hes now arguing that his mistake in not telling Covea about it was simply careless  rather 
than deliberate or reckless. So Ive thought very carefully about  whether or not it was fair for 
Covea not to return Mr S premium.
Mr S has described the circumstances that led to his DR70 conviction. He said he was 
stopped by police while driving. He was then arrested for failing to provide a specimen of 
breath. Mr S was later convinced of that offence.  The court  fined him £400  and added four 
penalty points  to his licence. Mr S paid the fine and had to return his licence to DVLA to add 
those points to it. I think such an experience: being  arrested, convicted,  paying a substantial  
fine and having  penalty points added  to a licence, would be a significant event in must 
peoples lives. I dont  think its likely  that its something that Mr S would have forgotten  about 
when he applied for the policy.  So I think he made a decision not to tell Covea - or any other 
potential insurer - about it when applying for the policy.  And I think  its likely that Mr S knew  
that by omitting  that information he was essentially telling  Covea something that was untrue 
or misleading. And in those circumstances I think he made a deliberate decision to make  a 
misrepresentation.
Mr S pointed out that he did disclose the CU80 when applying for the policy. He said that if 
his motivation for not declaring the DR70 was simply to get the cheapest premium he could  
then he wouldnt have  declared the CU80 either. So he believes this shows  that his failure  to 
Ref: DRN88882843declare the DR70  was simply  a careless mistake. I dont know what Mr S motivation for not 
declaring the DR70 was. And its certainly  possible that he found, while  looking for quotes, 
that many  insurers wouldnt offer him a policy  or would only do so for high premiums when 
he disclosed  both convictions.  But whatever  Mr Ss motivation was, as Ive said above, I 
think Mr S made a deliberate decision not to declare the DR70.  In those circumstances it 
was reasonable  for Covea to keep  Mr S premium.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8888284