K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that Santander  UK Plc hasnt treated her fairly. She says that its actions 
have placed her in a cycle of charges  shes permanently overdrawn and the bank charged 
fees to her account  which caused her great financial hardship. She says the bank  shouldve  
done more to protect her because of her health  issues. Miss K is represented by her father, 
Mr K.
background 
The circumstances leading to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, are set out in my 
provisional decision from November 2018,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In that decision, I explained why I was minded to uphold  Miss Ks complaint 
and I invited both parties  to let me have  any further  representations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both Mr K and Santander confirmed that 
theyd received and read my provisional  decision. And both parties confirmed that they 
accepted it.
In view of this, and the absence  of any further information, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out here and in my provisional decision, it is my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and require Santander  UK Plc to pay compensation as set out in the 
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN88735662Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss K complains  that Santander UK Plc hasnt treated  her fairly. She says that its actions have 
placed her in a cycle  of charges  shes  permanently  overdrawn and the bank charged fees to her 
account which  caused her great financial hardship. She says the bank shouldve done more to protect 
her because of her health issues. Miss K is represented by her father, Mr K.
background
Mr K says Santander knew about Miss Ks severe financial difficulties but it hasnt treated her as it 
shouldve done. He says its charged her thousands of pounds  over the years even  though it knows 
shes in financial difficulty and it knows her health means shes unable to manage her bank accounts 
on a day to day basis.
Santander rejected this complaint. It says that it reversed  some of the account charges in 2011 and 
again in 2014 and that it wouldnt refund any further charges that have been applied to Miss Ks 
account. The bank explained  the steps it had taken to support Miss K in view of her situation but said 
it wouldnt do anything  more.
Our adjudicator looked  at this complaint and said she didnt think  the complaint should be upheld.  She 
explained that following Miss Ks initial complaint, the bank had issued its Final Response in July 
2014. This final response explained the banks decision and told Miss K that she had six months in 
which to refer the matter to this Service.  And because she didnt approach  us until 2018, we wouldnt 
be able to look at a complaint about the events prior to July 2014  we had no power to consider that 
part of the complaint   it had been referred to us too late. But she explained  we could look at events 
that took place after July 2014.
She explained that the fees and charges added to the account after July 2014 had been applied in 
accordance with the account terms and conditions and that she wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.  
She said the bank had tried,  unsuccessfully, to contact  Miss K in June 2016, but it wasnt until 
October 2017 that Miss K contacted  the bank  to discuss things.  Our adjudicator said she thought  
Santander had done enough  to offer Miss K financial  assistance and it had acted positively  and 
sympathetically.
Mr K disagreed so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says the bank applied the charges 
enthusiastically to the point it became unethical  practice;  it created a cycle  of dependency;  and it 
contributed to and benefitted from his daughters  health issues.  He said the steps the bank took in 
October 2017 shouldve been taken  much  earlier;  Miss K wasnt given any options in 2014 which 
wouldve stopped  the charges and supported her at this time.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I hope that Miss K and Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy  that Ive 
condensed this complaint in the way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution  service, and 
Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that.
Having considered  the evidence, Im afraid I have to tell Santander that I think  it shouldve done more 
to help Miss K far sooner  than it did.
The starting  point here is that lenders  have a duty to treat all customers, but particularly those  facing 
financial hardship,  fairly. And once  the bank knew about Miss Ks financial difficulties, it needed to 
respond positively and sympathetically.
Ref: DRN88735663Santander told us it met with Miss K and Mr K in October 2017 when they attended a meeting  at her 
local bank branch.  It says that as a result of discussions it had, it agreed a goodwill gesture  of £150; it 
opened a basic account for Miss K  these type of accounts dont have any fees or charges  
associated with them  and it isnt possible  to run an overdraft either;  and it completed the forms that 
mean Mr K can support  Miss K by monitoring her account and keeping an eye on her finances.  In 
November 2017, Santander  also gave Miss K contact  details for several organisations  that provide 
free and independent debt counselling advice.  So taking  all this into consideration,  Im satisfied that 
Santander did what it needed to at this time.
My concerns,  however, relate  to the period  prior to this; between July 2014 and October 2017.  Miss K 
had been in difficulty  for some time and I think that its well documented in the banking records that 
Santander has. The banks own records confirm that it was put on notice in 2014 that Miss K was 
suffering from stress and anxiety and wasnt able to manage her account on a day to day basis. I say 
this because the banks own system records show it annotated Miss Ks account  with alerts 
confirming Miss K suffers with stress and that these  were  exceptional  circumstances. And when it 
wrote to her in July 2014,  Santander said it understood she suffered with stress and anxiety; struggled 
with day to day tasks; and found that managing  her account had been  difficult. But I cant see that 
Santander followed this up until June 2016  nearly two years  later  when  it attempted  to contact 
Miss K. It telephoned  Miss K and when it couldnt reach her or leave her a voicemail  message, the 
bank wrote to her as well.
I understand that Miss K didnt respond to either the missed call or the letter in June 2016 or the 
banks subsequent attempts  to contact her until the meeting  she attended in the bank branch in 
October 2017.
At the moment, I dont think I can hold Santander responsible for what  happened from June 2016  
onwards. I say this because  Im satisfied it made a number of attempts to contact Miss K to discuss 
her situation  and it isnt the banks fault that Miss K wasnt  willing to enter a dialogue with it until 
October 2017. But I do think  Santander must take responsibility for the fact that it did nothing between 
July 2014 and June  2016 even though it knew about Miss Ks situation and had marked  its records 
accordingly. And although  its possible  that Miss K may not have responded  to any attempts by the 
bank to contact  her sooner, its also possible that she mightve done.  But either way I do think  its 
likely that the meeting in October  2017  which  put in place  a number of steps to support Miss K 
wouldve taken place sooner. And Im going to ask Santander to refund the account fees and charges 
for the period  July 2014 to June 2016.
For these  reasons Im proposing  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN88735664my provisional  decision
Subject to any more  comments  and evidence  that I receive by 12 December 2018  my provisional 
decision is that Im thinking  of upholding this complaint  and ordering Santander UK Plc to:
(A) reconstruct the account by removing all the fees and charges  for the period 2 July 2014 to 30 
June 2016. If the removal of these fees and charges  means  that any of the subsequent fees 
and charges applied after 30 June 2016 would  not have been charged, then these should  
also be removed.
(B) if that produces a credit  balance  for any period, credit interest on that balance for that period 
at 8% simple per year; and
(C) send  the consumer details of how the revised  balance, the difference and any interest were 
calculated.
 (D) pay £100 compensation to Miss K for the distress and inconvenience caused in the way that 
the bank dealt with her at this time.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8873566