K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined to pay his claim under his motor 
insurance policy after he said his car was vandalised. He wants  it to pay his claim.
background
Mr A notified  UKI that his car had been  vandalised.  He said there was external  damage.  UKI 
investigated and accepted  the claim and found external and internal damage. Mr A then sent 
the repairer photographs  of the damage. These showed the interior of the car to be intact.  
UKI said there were  multiple inconsistencies  in the amount  of damage found and that 
claimed for and in Mr As accounts. It thought  the damage had been deliberately caused to 
get the car written off. So it declined the claim. Mr A said UKI or its agents had caused the 
damage. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
photographs showed less damage before  the inspection took place. He didnt think UKI had 
damaged the car or that it was likely to have.  So he didnt think UKI needed to pay the claim.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed.  So its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
UKI relied  on the terms and conditions of Section 9 of Mr As policy to decline his claim. 
These say that a claim will be declined, amongst other things, if it is fraudulent, false and 
exaggerated. UKI said Mr A had knowingly  given  it information he knew  was false. It 
considered the information provided by Mr A when he first called it to make  a claim, the 
results of its investigation, the photographs provided by Mr A and his further discussions with 
its agents. 
UKI said there were  many inconsistencies in Mr As various accounts. These included: 
Whether he first called the police to report the crime before he called UKI.
Whether there was still finance on the car.
The cars stated lack of pre-existing damage  and excellent mechanical condition, despite  
Mr As ongoing issues  with the manufacturer. 
Mr A said he couldnt recall exact details due to the passage of time. But I think  it was 
reasonable for UKI to be concerned by the number of inconsistencies.
 UKI was also concerned  that the photographs Mr A sent to the repairer showed less 
damage than what was found  by its inspection. We dont assess whether or how damage to 
a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter for the experts in these situations,  the 
insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether  
an insurance company  has considered all the available evidence  and whether it can justify  
its decision about a claim.
Ref: DRN80521562UKIs engineer examined Mr As car and considered the photographs  taken  when the car 
was recovered  to the repairer and earlier ones provided by Mr A. He thought  the internal 
damage wasnt then present and it couldnt have  been caused by vandalism as notified by 
Mr A.  
UKI then discussed this with Mr A. He said he hadnt  noticed the internal damage when he 
called UKI to report the claim. He said this came to light after he reported  the vandalism to 
the police. But, in his notification call, Mr A said hed already called the police and he 
provided a valid crime reference number. I think this is a clear contradiction.
So I think UKI reasonably  considered the evidence from its engineer  and gave Mr A 
opportunity to explain the discrepancy in damage. I dont think  his explanation was 
convincing. And so I think UKI justified its decision that the interior  damage hadnt  happened 
as Mr A had described. 
I think that due to this discrepancy and the inconsistencies  in Mr As accounts, UKI justified 
its decision that the claim may be exaggerated,  false or fraudulent. And so I cant say it was 
unfair or unreasonable for it to decline the claim under the policys terms and conditions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8052156