K820x#14complaint
Mr Ks complaint concerns a whole of life policy sold by Phoenix  Life Limited. He says he 
was led to believe the policy would continue to provide him with cover throughout his life and 
eventually the investment  element would  be sufficient  that hed no longer have to pay 
premiums.    
background
Mr K started the policy in 1987 with an initial sum assured of £100,000  for a monthly 
premium of £30. The sum assured was increased in 1991 and again in 1999, by which  time 
he was paying  just over £95 for a sum assured around £219,000. 
This continued until September 2017 when the policy  was reviewed and it was found that the 
£95 would no longer support the sum assured. Mr K was told that hed either  have to 
increase the monthly premiums to £154  or accept a reduction in the level of life cover to just 
over £180,000. 
This prompted Mr K to complain to Phoenix Life. Given  the lack of documentation to support  
the sale it accepted that he may not have been fully informed about  the policy and the 
likelihood of it providing cover for life, or working effectively as a savings vehicle. It offered to 
refunds the premiums,  minus the cost of life cover, plus interest to reflect an investment 
return. It also offered  £200 to acknowledge some  errors relating to issues  with a related trust 
and £50 for delays  in dealing with the complaint. 
Mr K didnt accept this and referred  the matter  to this service.  Our investigator concluded 
that Phoenix Lifes offer was fair in the circumstances. But Mr K continued to disagree, 
primarily as he felt that Phoenix Lifes compensation deducted  too much  for the cost of life 
cover. But he also remained disappointed that he would  no longer have the high level of life 
cover in place that hed been led to believe would be the case.     
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As noted,  given that Mr K policys  was started  so long ago, theres  little documentation 
available relating to the sale. As such, it strikes me as fair that Phoenix Life has accepted 
what Mr K has said and agreed that he may well not have been fully informed about how the 
policy would operate. 
And in respect  of putting things right, while I appreciate Mr K will be disappointed, I think the 
form of compensation  proposed by Phoenix  Life is also fair. Ill explain why.
Where somethings gone wrong our approach is to try and put the consumer, as far as 
possible, back in the position theyd be in if the business error hadnt happened. 
Phoenix Life has acknowledged that it cant be sure what Mr K was told about the workings 
of the policy  in 1987. So I have to consider what he might otherwise  have  done  if hed been 
Ref: DRN80232612fully informed and made  aware that the premiums for the policy would be likely to increase 
significantly as he got older and the cost of the life cover increased. 
There wouldve been a number of options  open to Mr K. If his desire was as hes indicated,  
to ensure that he maintained a high level of cover throughout his life so that there  would be 
an inheritance  for his children, this would have been possible. But that said,  I think it 
wouldve been considerably, and prohibitively, more expensive. 
Phoenix Life has said that a non-reviewable policy  one that guaranteed  a payout upon  
death, whenever that might occur  providing  a similar level of cover,  £216,000, wouldve 
cost £174 per month in 1987.  That wouldve been a substantial commitment at that time and 
far in excess  of the £30 Mr K initially agreed  to pay.
I note that Mr K has disputed this cost as hes obtained a number of comparative  quotations  
for cover based on similar circumstances to his at the time of the sale, all of which have 
been for much less. 
But the quotations are not like-for-like; importantly, they arent for whole of life cover.  
Rather, theyre for term cover, which means  they dont guarantee a payout  on death 
whenever it occurs. Instead such a policy would pay out only if death occurred before the 
end of a specific  term. This type of cover  is therefore much cheaper  as there is a strong 
likelihood that no payout will ever be made.  
I think if Mr K had been fully informed  about the policy at the outset he would most likely 
have opted for a different  course of action,  perhaps looking at some  term assurance 
combined with a savings/investment product. And thats what  the compensation offered by 
Phoenix Life attempts  to replicate. It puts Mr K in a similar position to that which hed have 
been in if hed paid for life cover for 30 years and also invested some money. 
As noted,  I understand that the loss of an expected, guaranteed £218,000 of cover will be 
very disappointing for Mr K. But ultimately  its not something I think he wouldve realistically  
have been able to maintain. So, while I acknowledge that theres always an element of 
uncertainty in trying  to put things right in this type of situation, I think Phoenix Lifes offer of a 
refund of premiums with interest based upon  an investment return, amounting  to just over 
£24,000, is fair in the circumstances.   
For completeness, I also consider that the £250 offered by Phoenix  Life in respect of the 
trust issues and delay is also fair.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as I consider that 
Phoenix Life Limiteds offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8023261