K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that the charges applied by PSA Finance UK Limited at the end of a hire 
agreement for a car were unfair.
Background
In June 2016 Mr W acquired a new car via a two year hire agreement with PSA.  Mr W says 
he received a three page agreement setting  out the charges and the period of the 
agreement.
In November 2017 Mr W contacted PSA and requested  a copy of the agreement. PSA 
replied to Mr W in January 2018 and provided  a copy of the same  three  page  agreement 
hed received in June  2016.
In April 2018, as the agreement  period was coming  to an end, Mr W received  a letter  from 
PSA detailing the car collection process.  This letter also said that Mr W should  check  the 
contract terms and conditions to avoid any unexpected surprises. With this letter there was 
an extract  of those terms and conditions for information. Mr W says he hasnt received any 
of the terms and conditions before this letter.
In May 2018  Mr W arranged with a third party company for the car to be inspected  and 
collected for a date in June 2018. He also contacted PSA and expressed his concern that he 
hadnt received  the terms and conditions that the recently provided extract had come  from. 
Mr W asked if there were  other terms that PSA believed  had been  added to the agreement.
In June 2018 the car was inspected. Damage was recorded to the alloy wheels and bumper.  
Mr W said he disagreed with this inspections findings.
In July 2018 Mr W received an invoice from PSA setting out that there  was a charge of £370 
for the damage  found to the car and a £611.77  charge for excess mileage.  Mr W complained  
to PSA and asked  for a breakdown of the damage charges and disputed  the excess  mileage 
charge. He said the agreement hadnt  included any excess mileage term.
PSA sent Mr W an automatic reply and he then sent three further emails but again only 
received automatic responses.
In August  2018  Mr W received a letter from PSA requesting payment of the outstanding 
£981.77. Later he received another letter from PSA enclosing copies of the signed 
agreement, delivery  note,  the inspection report, the terms of the hire agreement, servicing 
and instalment contracts.
PSA offered,  as a gesture of goodwill, to reduce  the charges for the damage to the car by 
£150. Mr W paid the remaining  charge  of £220 but continued to contest the charges for the 
excess mileage.
PSA didnt uphold  Mr Ws complaint about  the end of hire charges. It said that the inspection 
report had clearly detailed  the damage found  to the car. It also said that the car should  have  
been returned within the agreed mileage allowance specified in the contract  and, as Mr W 
had exceeded  this, the charges had been correctly applied.
Ref: DRN84647842Mr W was unhappy at PSAs decision and complained to this service. Our adjudicator 
recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be partially upheld.  He said that he was 
satisfied from the evidence that Mr W had only been  provided with a three  page  agreement 
when hed signed the hire agreement for the car. And that he hadnt received a copy of the 
agreements terms and conditions which was unfair.
Our adjudicator said that Mr W had been  provided  with a letter setting out how any damage 
to the car would be assessed in April 2018 which was two months before the car was 
handed back. He said Mr W hadnt objected to this term and looking at the evidence  of the 
damage he was satisfied that it had all arisen  from use beyond fair wear and tear. Our 
adjudicator said he was satisfied the charges for damage had been applied  fairly.
Our adjudicator said that the excess mileage  charge was contained  in the agreement  Mr W 
had received at the time of signing. Hed also received another copy  of this document  when 
hed asked PSA to send him a copy of the agreement. Our adjudicator  said he thought the 
excess mileage charge was in line with agreements terms and so was fair. 
However, our adjudicator  said he didnt think Mr W had been treated  fairly by PSA as he 
hadnt been provided with the full terms and conditions  of the agreement.  PSA had failed to 
rectify this when Mr W had later asked for a further copy of the agreement in November 
2017. It also hadnt responded to his later query  about terms and conditions. Our adjudicator 
said he thought  compensation  of £150  should  be paid to Mr W for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by him having  to repeatedly contact PSA, trying to establish  what  the 
terms and conditions of the agreement were.
PSA disagreed with the view of our adjudicator. It said it was the dealership that provided a 
copy of the terms and conditions together with a copy  of the signed agreement to the 
consumer. PSA acknowledged that it hadnt  actioned Mr Ws request for information when 
hed contacted it June 2018  but said Mr W should  have chased  that up especially as he was 
handing the car back. It said that its responses were  delayed  due to a high work volume and 
lack of staff.
PSA also said that under  the hirer declaration on the signed agreement it says that by 
signing this agreement you confirm  that at the time of signature the pages setting out the 
terms are attached and that the consumer  has received a complete copy  of this agreement . 
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen that there were two documents that should be provide when entering  into a hire 
agreement for a car with PSA. There is a copy of the signed agreement and then a separate 
document containing the agreements terms and conditions.
Mr W says that he has only ever received  the three pages of the hire agreement  and hasnt 
been provided with a copy of the terms and conditions despite requesting them. PSA 
disagrees and says these wouldve been  provided by the dealership and that this is 
referenced in the hire agreement.
Ref: DRN84647843Looking at the hire agreement  that Mr W received  twice (once  when he signed it and the 
second time when  hed asked for a copy of the agreement in November 2017) there is 
reference under the heading Key information  to a number of clauses contained in the 
agreement. These clauses dont appear  in the hire agreement itself.   
Mr W signed the agreement on page  two and then on page three it sets out under the 
heading Mileage Details that there is a basic annual  mileage  of 10,000  miles per year.  It 
says if this exceeded there will be a charge of seven  pence per mile (plus VAT). This page  
also sets out the monthly cost of the hire. At the bottom of page three there  is the Hirer 
Declaration  which says that by signing the agreement the hirer is confirming they have 
received the terms.
PSA says this shows that the terms and conditions were provided to Mr W at the time he 
took out the agreement.  But I disagree,  I think this shows that Mr W shouldve been  aware  
that there  were other terms and conditions and that there was a mileage limit with an excess 
mileage charge. I dont  think  I can reasonably say this alone is proof that the dealership  
handed those  terms and conditions to Mr W. And Ive seen no evidence that the dealership 
did provide this terms and conditions document  to Mr W. 
As there isnt a record  of what was provided  to Mr W and as Mr W made  efforts to obtain  a 
copy of the terms and conditions, I think its more likely than not that there was an oversight 
in handing this document to him. PSA didnt send a copy of the terms and conditions until 
after the car had been collected.
I appreciate that the hire agreement makes  reference to there  being  terms and conditions so 
Mr W shouldve  been aware  these existed. This was also reinforced  when Mr W received the 
letter in April 2018 together with the extract. But Mr W did make enquiries and unfortunately 
PSA didnt reply  until after the car had been collected. So Im satisfied  that Mr W did try to 
get a full copy of the hire agreement and wasnt assisted by PSA in obtaining this. 
Mr W objected  to the excess  mileage  as he said this wasnt included  in the agreement. He 
also disputed that the car had suffered the damage  as described in the inspection  report.  He 
says that evidence of repair or additional  evidence shouldve been provided  when he raised 
his complaint to PSA.
Ive seen that after PSA reduced  the outstanding £380 bill for damages to the car Mr W paid 
the remaining  £220. I appreciate he disputed the charge  for the missing  handbook as he 
said it had never been  present but looking at the inspection report Im satisfied there was 
sufficient evidence of the damage  to the alloys and the dent to the bumper. And that the cost 
of those repairs exceeded the £220  paid by Mr W.
Ive seen that the inspection report included photos  of the damage  found and that the 
damage was assessed in accordance with the BVLRA guidelines.  These guidelines are the 
industrys standard for what is and isnt acceptable as to the condition  of a car when it is 
returned at the end of an agreement.  PSA isnt obliged to also produce invoices to show  the 
actual cost of repairs  as it can choose  to the sell the car without fixing the faults.  I think  the 
photos were enough to evidence that the car had sustained damage that was beyond  fair 
wear and tear.
However, although I think the charges  for the damage were fair I also think  it wouldve  been 
reasonable for Mr W to have been aware  of the damage term prior to PSAs letter sent in 
April 2018 particularly as Mr W had asked  for a copy of the agreement.
Ref: DRN84647844Looking at the excess mileage charge, Ive seen  that appears in the hire agreement and is, I 
think, clearly set out as to how that operates (the cost per additional mile). I cant  reasonably 
say that charge hasnt been  fairly applied to Mr W.
PSA says it struggled  to provide responses to Mr Ws enquiries  due to staffing issues  at the 
time. It accepts that it didnt deal with Mr Ws enquiry in a timely manner. I agree with our 
adjudicator that Mr W wouldve suffered distress and inconvenience when having to make 
his repeated efforts to contact PSA to establish the details  of the agreement.  I think in these 
circumstances that £150  compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect this. So Im partially  
upholding Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im asking  PSA 
Finance UK Limited to pay Mr W £150  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused to him by not having the terms and conditions provided to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8464784