K822xcomplaint
Ms S complains  that TSB Bank Plc made  errors in the administration of her credit card 
account. She says those  errors have caused  her financial loss. Ms S would like 
compensation for the financial loss and trouble  and upset caused.
background 
Ms S had a credit card account with TSB. She says that in March 2018  she was advised  by 
TSB to stop using  her card as shed experienced problems with it. Ms S says TSB told her 
that a replacement card would  be sent out but she didnt receive the replacement  card and 
had to chase TSB for this. 
Before the replacement card arrived, Ms S was due to make  a payment towards her credit  
card balance but because she didnt have  a new card, she was unable to view the 
information about her card online,  and so couldnt make the payment online. Ms S called 
TSB and TSB said itd take a payment  of £100 towards her balance over the phone  but due 
to an error  by TSB,  the payment wasnt taken. Ms S complained  to TSB about this, TSB 
agreed it made an error and offered £100 to Ms S which she accepted, and that aspect of 
Ms S complaint was resolved. 
Following on from this, a new card was issued  on 21 March  2018. Ms S says once she 
received her card and was able to log onto the online  system,  she found that shed been 
charged interest and late fees when she shouldnt have been and that her 0% interest rate 
deal wasnt taken into account when her outstanding balance  was calculated.
Ms S also says she wanted  to transfer the balance on her TSB credit card to another  
provider but due to the TSBs  IT glitch she was unable to access  her online account and 
this resulted in her balance transfer  request being  rejected. Due to this Ms S says she lost 
out on the promotional offer of 32 months  0% interest on balance transfers from the other 
provider at the time.
When Ms S complained to TSB, it didnt respond to her complaint  in time and so she 
referred her complaint  to this service  where it was looked at by one of our investigators.
Our investigator thought that TSB should have updated Ms S address on her credit card 
account in February  2018 when it became clear that it had her address noted incorrectly on 
its system, and that wouldve prevented the delay with Ms S receiving her new credit card. 
Our investigator also thought that TSB took too long to respond to Ms S complaint so she 
recommended that TSB pay £200  compensation to Ms S. TSB accepted  the 
recommendation and added  that the compensation would  also cover the trouble Ms S went 
through in the one week she was unable to access her credit  card online.
Ms S didnt think the compensation was enough  and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the relevant 
laws and regulations  and good industry  practice at the time.
Ref: DRN84161262TSBs initial error of not taking the £100 credit  card payment in March 2018  has been 
resolved by TSB paying  Ms S a total of £100  which she accepted  in resolution of that 
complaint point. And so my decision has focused  on what  TSB did after Ms S received the 
replacement card and the impact any error  by TSB had on her.
I can see that Ms S says she had interest added to her balance  when she shouldnt  have.  
From the information provided, Ms Ss preferential rate on her TSB credit card was due to 
end on 8 April 2018. I can also see that the terms and conditions only allow for one occasion 
of reinstating a promotional rate and this was done in July 2017 made a late payment. The 
system notes from TSB show  that in February  2018, Ms S exceeded her credit limit and so 
in line with the terms and conditions, the preferential rate was removed. When interest  was 
applied to Ms S credit card balance, I think it was correctly applied  as the preferential rate 
period had ended.
Ms S says TSBs IT glitch prevented her from accessing her online account  which  meant 
that she was unaware that her balance transfer to another provider didnt take place. This 
service has been provided  with information by the third-party business and from the 
information provided, Ms S opened  the credit card with the third-party  business  in 
February 2018 and had 90 days to transfer her balance  from another  credit card. The third-
party business has confirmed that Ms S requested a balance transfer on 10 April 2018  and 
on 11 April 2018, it sent Ms S a message that the transfer was rejected.
I dont agree with Ms S argument that TSBs IT glitch stopped  her from accessing her 
account during  the period  she applied for the balance transfer in April. I say this because 
TSBs upgrade system which caused the IT glitch didnt occur until 20 April 2018 and Ms S 
applied for the balance  transfer in 10 April. I think  its likely Ms S had access  her TSB credit  
card account  at the time of the transfer.  Further, the third-party business has explained and 
provided evidence  to show that it sent Ms S a message  about  her balance transfer being 
rejected. 
From what  Ive seen, it wasnt an error  by TSB that caused the balance transfer to fail. As 
stated above,  I think  Ms S likely  had access to her online credit card account during the 
relevant time. Ms S had also received credit card statements  that showed the outstanding 
balance on her credit card was always over the £5,480 she tried to transfer,  and I think  given 
that Ms S received  these  statements,  shed have been reasonably  aware of her balance on 
her TSB credit card.
Also, Id expect that Ms S would have been  curious  about her request for a balance  transfer 
and so should have been proactive to check the outcome  of her balance  transfer  request. In 
any event, Ms S had until May 2018 to complete the balance  transfer and so had she taken 
proactive steps  to monitor the balance transfer  she requested  either by checking her 
messages on her third party account or accessing  her online credit card account with TSB 
shed have seen  that the balance transfer  had failed and wouldve taken the necessary steps  
to rectify this within the relevant time.
Ref: DRN84161263Overall, I dont  think that had TSB taken the £100  credit card payment in March  2018, as it 
accepts it should  have done,  Ms S wouldve been  in a different position.  Ms S preferential 
rate on her TSB credit  card ended and so the interest was correctly charged. Ms S received  
her statements around  this time, and I think shed have been  reasonably  aware about her 
outstanding balance. The upgrade of TSBs  system  took place after Ms S applied for the 
balance transfer,  there  was a period of around  9 days between  her request for a balance  
transfer and the TSB IT glitch. And so its unlikely it had an impact  on Ms S accessing her 
credit card account when  she applied for the balance transfer. 
Ive seen that TSB wrote to Ms S and refunded  interest on her credit card from May 2018, 
this is interest that was charged after the IT glitch occurred and so I dont consider that it 
shows TSB accepts it incorrectly charged  Ms S interest around the time of the balance  
transfer.
 
Where TSB made errors, it has acknowledged this and had taken reasonable steps to rectify 
its errors.  TSB took too long to respond  to Ms S complaint and it didnt update  her address  
at the first opportunity it had to do this, it has now responded  to her complaint through  this 
service and it updated her address and gave  Ms S a replacement card. Im satisfied TSB 
has taken steps  to put things right and, in the circumstances,  I think TSBs offer of £200 is 
fair and reasonable for the delays with responding to Ms S complaint the fact that it 
shouldve corrected her address  in February 2018 when she spoke to TSB.
As I dont think TSB made further errors  that caused  Ms S loss, I wont  be asking it to do 
anything further.  I appreciate Ms S wants more than £200 and shes  likely to be disappointed 
but I hope my explanation helps her understand why Ive reached this decision.
Ms S has raised further points recently  about how the TSB IT glitch has affected her credit 
file and stopped her from securing a loan. This isnt a point that TSB has had the opportunity 
to fully investigate  and this service  cant  get involved until TSB has been  given a chance to 
look into her concerns first. So, Ms S needs to refer this new aspect of her complaint to TSB 
in the first instance.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold part of Ms S complaint  and I think £200 is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. 
Ms S will need to contact  TSB Bank Plc directly  for payment if she hasnt already received 
this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8416126