K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Theres only limited information  about Mr Ps mortgage. None of the paperwork from the 
original sale is available  and HSBC couldnt  confirm  how the mortgage or PPI was sold.  But 
the banks records  show that Mr P had a PPI policy that started in May 1993  that provided  
cover for his mortgage.  The policy protected his monthly repayments in the event of 
accident, sickness and unemployment if Mr P couldnt  work. 
Our adjudicator assessed Mr Ps complaint on the basis  of all the information available  but 
didnt find enough  evidence to uphold his complaint. Mr P disagreed.  He mainly says that 
HSBC didnt give him enough information about  PPI to make an informed decision about it  
and if it had done, then he would've  declined the policy.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Mr P thought  hed arranged his mortgage  and the PPI during a meeting at an HSBC branch 
with one of the banks  advisors, so I think its likely thats probably what  did happen. I dont 
know how HSBC wouldve presented PPI to Mr P or explained it to him during any 
discussions. But I wouldnt expect  HSBC to keep records indefinitely. And it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  Mr P to remember exactly what, if anything, he was told when he took 
out PPI as the sale happened so long ago. So I cant just rely on what  Mr P says. I have to 
look at everything and decide  what I think is most likely.
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that HSBC  didnt  make  it 
clear that it was open to Mr P not to choose PPI if he didnt want  to have it. The mortgage  
was a major  financial commitment, due to run for a number  of years.  His home wouldve 
been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can see why Mr P 
mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand  why Mr P mightve  
forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think its more likely that Mr P decided he wanted  to 
have the benefits the PPI offered and it was added  to his account  when he decided  to buy 
the policy. 
HSBC told us that it doesnt any longer have  a policy document from the date Mr P took out 
PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use afterwards  so I think its likely 
that in all main respects the policy that Mr P took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
As I dont know exactly what was said about the PPI its not clear whether HSBC mightve 
advised Mr P to take out the policy. But I dont need to make  a decision about this because it 
doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for him based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time.  
Ref: DRN81025762I think Mr P was eligible  for the PPI policy and he met the requirements to have the cover. 
Mr P told us he had other means to make  the repayments if he couldnt work. And Ive 
thought carefully  about everything Mr P has said. But Im not persuaded that he couldnt 
have benefitted  from the PPI if hed needed  to claim  or that his circumstances meant he 
didnt need it. Heres why I say this.
Mr P was entitled to 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months  half pay. The policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to his sick pay for up to 12 months per claim.  As hed have  
been on half pay only after 6 months off work I think that couldve been a useful benefit  at a 
difficult time  especially  if he faced extra costs as a result of being ill or disabled.  
Ive taken into account that Mr P had a four figure amount of savings. But I dont know if he 
wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim. Repeat  claims were 
possible giving Mr P long term protection for his mortgage while  he was paying  for his home. 
Having PPI meant Mr P could keep his savings intact to provide financial security for the 
future. 
So, looking  at Mr Ps circumstances  at the time, I think the PPI was suitable. 
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt  look as if that wouldve affected Mr P. So, 
I dont think more information about  the policy exclusions  and limitations wouldve made any 
difference to Mr Ps decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr P when he bought  the policy. But, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that he couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. Mr P was solely 
responsible for paying his mortgage.  Given the serious consequences of defaulting on a 
debt secured on his home, I think its likely that he wouldve appreciated the peace of mind 
the cover  gave him (even  if hes forgotten now).  
Its possible that HSBC  mightnt have  given Mr P clear information about all aspects of the 
PPI. But I think Mr P chose to take out the insurance and I can see why he mightve  thought 
it could be useful. Taking all his circumstances into account, even if there were failings in the 
way HSBC sold him the policy,  I dont think that better information wouldve put Mr P off 
having it. 
This means  HSBC UK Bank Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because: 
HSBC UK Bank Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P about  that. Because HSBC UK 
Bank Plc didnt  tell Mr P, that was unfair.  
To put that right, HSBC UK Bank Plc has paid back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN81025763 my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr P any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8102576