K820x#14complaint
Miss M has complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  (L&G) mis-sold 
her an income protection insurance policy.
background
In 2004, while in the process of applying for a mortgage, Miss M met with an adviser from 
L&G. The adviser  recommended  that Miss M take out life insurance cover and critical illness 
cover. Miss M accepted  the advisers  recommendations.  She began paying  for two policies 
which were marketed as Mortgage  Critical Illness cover and Mortgage Payment Insurance.
In 2019, Miss M realised that the Mortgage Critical Illness policy included life assurance. She 
looked at the Mortgage  Payment Insurance policy in more detail and was concerned to note 
that it was not life assurance,  as she had believed, but instead paid a regular benefit if she 
were unable to work due to illness or injury.  She considered it was similar to Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  which had been  the subject of a widely  reported  mis-selling 
scandal. She complained to L&G that she had been mis-sold this policy as she had been led 
to believe it was life assurance.
L&G didnt uphold  Miss Ms complaint. It explained  that the Mortgage Payment Insurance  
policy wasnt a PPI policy but was a permanent  health insurance  policy  (also  called  an 
income protection policy). It was designed  to provide a replacement  income in the event she 
was unable to work  due to long-term  sickness. It was satisfied that this and the life/critical 
illness policy  were both suitable recommendations. It was satisfied she had been given 
adequate information concerning the income  protection insurance policy and therefore didnt 
accept that it had been mis-sold.
Miss M was unhappy at L&Gs  response. She referred her complaint to us. She said that her 
employers generous sickness pay meant she had no need for an income protection policy. 
She said that if the nature of the policy had been  made clear  to her, she wouldnt have 
agreed to take it out. She wanted her premiums  to be refunded.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that L&G had done nothing wrong.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators findings.  She submitted  further documentation she 
had received at the time of sale. She considered that this showed the Mortgage Payment 
Insurance policy was indeed  a PPI policy which she hadnt wanted.  She also said that the 
further documentation supported her argument  that she had been  led to believe the policy 
was instead providing life cover.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Let me first of all clarify the nature of the cover  which Miss M took out in 2004.
Ref: DRN81758882The Mortgage Critical Illness  policy provides life assurance and critical illness cover.  This 
means it would  provide  a lump sum benefit if Miss M were  to die or be diagnosed  with one of 
the serious illnesses  listed  in the policy.
The Mortgage Payment  Insurance policy is an income protection policy. It would provide a 
monthly benefit if Miss M were to become unable to perform her occupation due to illness  or 
injury. The policy is designed to help her cover  her regular financial commitments,  though in 
particular her mortgage payments, and to this end the monthly benefit cannot exceed 140% 
of her monthly mortgage payment.  However,  the benefit is paid directly  to Miss M and it 
would be up to her as to how she used it. Although  it shares some characteristics, the policy 
is not what I would regard as a PPI policy.   
Im satisfied that an income  protection policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss M 
given that she was entering  into a long-term  financial commitment. The life / critical illness  
policy wouldnt provide  benefit if Miss M became long-term unable  to perform her occupation 
due to an accident or illness which  wasnt listed under  the policy.  The income protection 
policy would therefore  provide useful  cover. The deferred period was set for 12 months  
which appears to tie-in with the sickness provision offered by her employer.
Miss M says she wasnt made aware  of the nature of the cover.  She has provided  a letter 
from the adviser dated 28 February 2004 which states:
I recommend that some  form of income protection insurance be put in place, to protect  your 
mortgage repayment in the event of long-term  illness, coupled  with a suitable  policy  to cover  
you in case of redundancy  or loss of earnings You signed up for both Life and Critical 
Illness cover  knowing  the benefits of having  them both in place.
She says that this shows she only agreed to the life and critical illness cover,  which was why 
she had understood the Mortgage  Payment Insurance  was a life assurance policy.
However, I can see that subsequent to this letter Miss M followed the recommendation of the 
adviser and applied for an income  protection policy (the Mortgage Payment Insurance 
policy), albeit she chose  not to include  cover  for redundancy. Furthermore, among the other  
documents provided by Miss M is a key features document and policy  schedule  for the 
income protection policy, both of which clearly explain the nature of the cover.  I therefore  
consider that she was given adequate  information to understand what type of policy  shed 
taken out.
Miss M has pointed to a confirmation schedule she received following her application which  
she says confused her into thinking  the Mortgage  Payment  Insurance  provided life cover.  I 
acknowledge that the confirmation  schedule doesnt  make clear that the critical illness policy 
included life cover. However, alongside all the other evidence, I remain  of the opinion  that 
Miss M should reasonably have been  aware  that the Mortgage Payment Insurance was an 
income protection policy.
Miss M said she didnt read thoroughly the information she received at the point  of sale 
because shed understood  that the Mortgage Payment Insurance was life cover. However,  
as I have explained, I dont see why she should  have understood this. I consider that the 
nature of the cover for which  had applied had been  made clear  to her.
In view of all the evidence, Im satisfied this policy  was not mis-sold. This being the case, I 
can see no reasonable grounds for saying that Miss M should receive a refund of premiums.
Ref: DRN81758883my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8175888