K821x#15Complaint
Miss H complains that TSB Bank  plc (TSB) wont refund £6,000 she lost when  she was the 
victim of a scam. 
Background
On 28 November 2018 Miss H, who was 83 at the time, received a call from a major  
telecommunications provider, of whom she was a customer. The caller explained they 
needed her direct debit  details and middle name and Miss H recalls  questioning them  on 
why they needed this and not providing the caller  with any details.
Shortly afterwards Miss H received  a call from someone she thought  to be from TSB. Miss H 
says the caller was convincing, professional  and efficient   she says they sounded  like they 
knew exactly what they were talking about and having worked in an office  her whole life, she 
was impressed by their conduct. Sadly,  the callers professionalism persuaded Miss H she 
was talking to someone  from TSB.
Miss H was told there had been  some unusual activity on her account and an attempt to 
transfer £2,000 out of her account had been stopped. Miss H has said she was shocked and 
upset that there had been attempted fraud on her account. She was asked to log in to her 
account and told that to prevent any further attempts of fraud she should transfer her funds 
to a safe account with another bank, and then to go in to her local TSB branch a few days 
later to discuss things further. Miss H transferred £4,500 from an ISA she held with TSB to 
her current  account using a telephone banking service, and then she was told to transfer 
£6,000 from her current account  to the scammer via online  banking.  She completed both 
transactions herself, but the caller talked her through what to do.
Miss H went in to her TSB branch on 30 November 2018, but staff knew nothing  about the 
meeting and took her aside to discuss the matter further. Miss H then realised shed been 
the victim of a scam. 
TSB attempted  to recover Miss Hs funds  but was unable to do so. Miss H didnt raise any 
concerns about  this with TSB but brought a complaint to our service. 
Subsequently TSB didnt agree to refund Miss Hs transactions. It said Miss H authorised the 
transactions and there was nothing to suggest  they were  suspicious. Once it was aware of 
the fraud,  it tried to recover funds from the beneficiary bank, but it was unable  to do so. 
Miss H was unhappy with TSBs response and asked  us to look into the matter. The 
investigator who considered Miss Hs complaint  upheld it and asked  TSB to pay Miss H 
£6,000 plus interest  and £300 for the distress  and inconvenience shed suffered. He 
accepted Miss H had authorised the transactions. But after considering TSBs duties the 
investigator concluded it should  have  had concerns Miss H was at risk of harm. This was 
because although  Miss H had made faster payments previously, they were to her own 
accounts, the amount lost through the scam  was significant compared  with previous 
transactions and left Miss H with small balances in both accounts.
Miss H accepted the investigators findings,  but TSB didnt.  It said: 
-If Miss H had checked with it first the fraud could have been  prevented;
Ref: DRN82993942-Miss H authorised the transactions;
-The transactions were  made without TSB staff intervention so there was no 
opportunity to discuss them;
-Miss H transferred funds between  her accounts and then set up a new beneficiary.  
From a system perspective there  was nothing unusual in the transfer  to the 
fraudsters account  Miss H used  a trusted  device to log in to internet banking with 
her personal ID and password.
-Miss H didnt query or check the callers  identity when she received  the call on 28 
November 2018.
TSB asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
consider. During  my review I called Miss H to ask her some questions about  the scam.  She 
explained what happened during the call, why she was persuaded she was talking to TSB, 
that she didnt  recall seeing any warnings  and that she wasnt  given a cover story.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have
taken that into account  when deciding  whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But thats not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a 
payment in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not 
necessarily proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare duty).
Regulated firms like TSB are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard 
to the interests  of its customers  (Principle  6).
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to:
Identify and assist  vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances); and
Ref: DRN82993943Look to identify  and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice, which  a number of banks and trade associations  were involved 
in the development of).
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where 
a bank should, in my opinion, fairly  and reasonably  take additional  steps, or make  additional  
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase  in 
sophisticated fraud  and scams in recent years  - which  banks are generally more 
familiar with than the average customer.
In this case, I need to decide  whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with 
Miss H when she made the payment of £6,000, or whether it should have done more  than it 
did.
Did TSB act fairly  and reasonably in Miss Hs case?
As Ive explained above, I consider that as a matter of good practice TSB should have been 
on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions. So Ive first considered whether 
the £6,000 payment request Miss H made was out of character  and unusual.  Im satisfied it 
was and I will explain why. 
Most of the previous  activity on Miss Hs current account in the six-month  period  before the 
scam related to standing orders, direct debits and a small number of cash withdrawals. 
Whilst Miss H had made some  previous  online transfers these  were  mainly to other  accounts 
of hers.  And other than a payment to a contractor  for £258  the day before the disputed 
transaction all Miss Hs previous online transfers  were for £110 or less. Ive seen no 
evidence Miss H had previously made such a large  single payment to a new payee.
The payment was the first payment to a new payee and Miss H hadnt previously made any 
large transfers from her ISA to her current account.  
Following the transfers Miss Hs ISA and current account were  left with very limited  funds. 
The balance in her ISA was reduced  to £272.85, which  was unusually low for her, and 
Miss Hs current  account balance reduced to just under £300. In essence, the payment 
virtually cleared two of Miss Hs accounts with TSB.  
In addition to the unusual  and out of character  nature of the transactions  that Miss H was 
requesting, I think there were other  circumstances  which meant that Miss H could potentially  
have been at risk of financial  harm.
Miss H was 83 years old at the time of the scam. Whilst TSB has pointed out Miss Hs 
banking history wasnt typical for someone her age (she set up online banking in her 
eighties) her age is a relevant factor, because  her age profile is one that is disproportionately  
targeted by scammers - this has been recognised by the industry  for a long time, and more 
recently by the Banking Protocol and the BBAs report improving  outcomes for customers in 
vulnerable circumstances. 
Ref: DRN82993944Im satisfied that TSB ought reasonably to have  been mindful of this at the time Miss H 
requested to transfer a large sum from her current account, (though  its important to note 
that banks should be on the lookout for any unusual or out of character transaction   
whether a customer is vulnerable or not).
TSB has said that if a customer is transferring funds internally from one TSB product to 
another in their own name this isnt considered high risk because  the funds  are still in the 
account holders  name. I accept that a large  proportion of the money transferred to the 
fraudster was from Miss Hs ISA, but as Ive explained, in this particular case, the transfer 
between her accounts and then the subsequent payment out of her current account meant 
both Miss Hs accounts were reduced  so significantly that they were  virtually emptied, and 
this was significantly out of keeping with Miss Hs prior account history.  Im also mindful Miss 
H is a pensioner with only limited  income through her pension and so a transfer  of £6,000,  
which reduced both her account balances so significantly, left her with very little to live on. 
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have
identified that Miss H was potentially  at risk of financial  harm.  Im persuaded  that as a matter 
of good practice,  TSB should fairly and reasonably have made additional checks  before 
processing the payment Miss H made to the scammer. Specifically, I consider TSB ought to 
have contacted Miss H to question her about  the purpose of payment at the time. TSB has 
said there was no interaction  so there  was no opportunity to discuss the payment;  but this 
doesnt mean there shouldnt have been any interaction. And while  TSB says it provided 
warnings on its online  banking system (though it cant guarantee Miss H saw them), Miss H 
says she didnt see these,  which isnt surprising given she was being coached through  
making the payment by the scammer (who  she was convinced worked for TSB) which is 
often the case  in these types of scams. And in the circumstances, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I remain persuaded  TSB shouldve contacted Miss H about  the payment request.
Had TSB contacted  Miss H and asked her some questions about the payment I believe its 
more likely than not the scam would have become apparent and would have been 
prevented. Ill explain  why.
Miss H fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  a safe account scam. And its a
type of scam that Im satisfied TSB ought to have been aware  of at the time. Based on
what Miss H has said, Im persuaded that had TSB contacted her about the payment to
question what it was for, its more likely than not she would have explained she thought she 
was acting on TSBs own instructions to protect  her account.
I say this because  Miss H says she hadnt been  given a cover story or prepared  one to use if
shed been questioned, and she wasnt told she shouldnt tell anyone about  the call from the 
scammer. I also note she freely went into a branch on 30 November 2018, as she was 
instructed to by the fraudster, which led to the scam being readily uncovered  by TSB  this 
supports my view that Miss H wouldnt have tried to hide the truth from TSB.
That leads me to find that, upon  making contact with Miss H and establishing the purpose
behind the payment, TSB would have  quickly identified this was not a legitimate transfer
and that Miss H was in fact the victim  of a scam. The funds  would not have been sent to the
scammer and so would  not have been lost.
Finally, Ive thought  about TSBs  comments that Miss H didnt do enough to protect herself,
such as taking steps to validate the caller.  Im satisfied that Miss H was the victim  of a 
sophisticated and cruel scam, and that she genuinely believed  her money was at risk and 
Ref: DRN82993945that she needed to act quickly  to protect  her money.  At the time Miss H transferred her funds 
she was persuaded  the caller was genuine based  on her experience of dealing  with banks in 
the past, and in particular  this caller struck her as particularly professional, leaving no doubt  
in her mind that she was dealing with TSB. In the circumstances,  and in the belief that she 
was dealing with her bank and following its instructions,  I find it understandable she acted 
without delay. 
Putting things  right
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Hs complaint against  TSB. I dont
think it was fair and reasonable for TSB not to refund  the amount Miss H lost through
becoming the victim of a scam. To put her back in the position she was in before the scam 
TSB should refund Miss H what she lost through the scam and also refund  interest  as set 
out below.
Ive also considered whether TSB should pay Miss H compensation for the distress  and
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of its actions. In considering whats  fair
compensation, Ive specifically  thought  about the impact of TSBs actions, rather than the
impact of the crime itself.  Im persuaded that TSB could have significantly reduced  the 
overall impact on Miss H had it acted  appropriately to prevent the fraud taking place. Miss H 
has explained that she lost most of her money  and felt extremely  upset. She is also 
suspicious when she receives calls following the scam and no longer makes online 
payments. Considering everything, I think TSB should pay Miss H £300  in compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  she experienced as a result of its actions. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require TSB Bank plc to:
-Refund Miss H the £6,000 she lost, less any funds recovered;
-Pay interest on the £4,500 transferred from Miss Hs ISA at the rate that applied to 
that account at the time from the date of transfer to the date of settlement. If TSB 
deducts tax from the interest element of this award,  it should provide Miss H with an 
appropriate tax deduction certificate;  
-Pay interest on the remaining £1,500 at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of the transfer to the date of settlement. If TSB deducts  tax from the interest  
element of this award, it should provide Miss H with an appropriate  tax deduction 
certificate; and
-Pay Miss H £300  for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 October  2020.
Jay Hadfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8299394