K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about Arrow Global Limiteds  handling  of a debt they say she owes  them. 
background
Mrs B is represented in this complaint, but for ease  Ill refer to Mrs B below when describing 
the actions of her or her representative.
Mrs B took out a credit card account  with another business (company A) in 2005.
In 2013, the outstanding debt on that account  just over £2,000  was sold to Arrow.
Mrs B paid regular monthly  amounts to Arrow  until November 2017  and the outstanding debt 
now stands at nearly £1,000.
Mrs B recently asked Arrow for a copy of the original credit agreement. They  tried to obtain 
this from company A but it was no longer  available.
Mrs B made a complaint to Arrow. Shes unhappy they cant  provide a copy  of the 
agreement. She says that means the debt is unenforceable and Arrow should  stop asking 
her to pay it. And she says the amount they say she owes isnt correct.
Mrs B also says she was vulnerable when she took the credit, which  shouldnt  have  been  
offered to her. She says she experienced financial difficulty, so charges and interest  
shouldnt have been added to amount owed when  she fell behind  on repayments. And she 
objects to the account having been defaulted.
Mrs B is unhappy about what  she calls Arrows aggressive collection methods. And she says 
they didnt carry  out due diligence  when they bought the debt to verify the amount actually 
owed.
Arrow accepted theyd  been slow to respond  to Mrs Bs request for a copy of the credit 
agreement and apologised for this. But they didnt uphold the rest of her complaint.
Mrs B was unhappy with this outcome  and brought her complaint  to us. Our investigator  
looked into it and didnt think Arrow  had done  anything wrong.
Mrs B disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Arrow bought the debt in 2013. There are a number  of things  Mrs B complains about which 
arent Arrows responsibility.
Company A defaulted the account. And in any case because  that was more than six years 
ago, the default is no longer reported  by the credit  reference agencies,  so its no longer 
having an effect on Mrs Bs credit  status.
Ref: DRN80928632Company A were responsible for the decision to make the credit available to Mrs B. And 
company A applied  charges and additional  interest to the account  when Mrs B fell behind on 
her repayments. 
Its clear from the Mrs Bs account statements that since  Arrow  bought  the debt, theyve not 
applied any charges, interest  or any other increase to the amount owed. This steadily 
decreased as Mrs B made monthly repayments  until November 2017.
If she wishes, Mrs B can make a complaint to company A. If shes  not happy with the 
response she can complain to us, but she needs  to take into account the time limits which  
apply to our investigations. Unless there are exceptional circumstances, we cant look into 
things which  happened  more than six years ago, or more than three  years  after the customer 
became aware  they had cause for complaint.
In terms of this complaint  about Arrow, I cant to ask them  to answer  for what  company A 
may have  done  before  Arrow bought the debt.
I believe Mrs B disputes the amount she owes primarily because of the charges  and interest 
added earlier  which she says were unfair.  As I say, those are not Arrows responsibility. 
And the evidence suggests Arrow  have  done  nothing to increase the debt since they bought 
it.
In terms of Arrow checking that the debt was legitimately owed when they bought it  or 
carrying out due diligence  as Mrs B puts it  I dont  think its unfair or unreasonable for them  
to assume that the amount owed was as stated by company A. Its not for Arrow to check 
that every  charge  or any interest added by company A was legitimate. 
In any case, Mrs B didnt  dispute the amount owed in 2013 when Arrow told her theyd taken 
over the debt. And she continued to make  regular monthly repayments for more than four 
years. So, on balance, Id say she probably  accepted that the amount owed at the time 
Arrow bought the debt was correct.
Arrow cant provide  Mrs B with a copy of the original credit agreement. Again, it appears 
company A didnt  keep a copy  or cant locate one now  so, I cant  say Arrow are 
responsible for the lack of a copy.
Mrs B says this makes  the debt unenforceable in legal terms. Thats something that only the 
courts can decide  and its not for me to offer a legal opinion on that here. I do note, however, 
that Arrow  said in their correspondence with Mrs B that because  they couldnt provide a copy  
of the original agreement, they couldnt  pursue Mrs B for the debt through  the courts.
Theres no evidence to suggest Arrow  have  misled Mrs B about  the lack of a copy of the 
original credit agreement  or about  the implications of that. So, I cant  see that theyve acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in that respect.
Finally, Mrs B alleges Arrow have been  aggressive in pursuing the debt. The evidence we 
have of the contact  between  Arrow and Mrs B suggests they wrote to her on a number of 
occasions offering  to reduce the total amount owed  in return  for immediate payment. I dont 
think this could be regarded as aggressive.  The content and tone of those letters makes it 
clear Arrow are making an offer, rather than a demand.
Ref: DRN80928633In summary,  Im satisfied  that since buying the debt, Arrow  havent treated Mrs B unfairly  or 
unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8092863