K820x#14complaint
Mr R, who has a representative, complains  that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) acted 
irresponsibly by increasing  his credit card limit, and allowing  him to use this for gambling.
background
Mr R has a Barclaycard credit card, which he got in 2011, with a credit limit of £2,000. This 
limit increased over time to £11,000  in January 2018. Mr R used the card regularly, making 
regular repayments  often in excess of the minimum amount.
He used the card at various times to gamble between October 2015 and March  2018. 
Shortly after this Mr R was remanded in custody, and the card wasnt used  anymore. 
Repayments to the account also stopped.
Mr R complained to Barclays, saying it had acted irresponsibly by giving him credit, 
increasing his limit, and allowing him to use this credit for gambling.
Barclays didnt uphold  the complaint They said Mr R used his account well, and credit 
increases were only given  after looking at his account history  and credit reference data. 
Barclays said a cardholder could  use an account as they wished, and they wouldnt stop or 
limit gambling transactions unless a cardholder  asked them to. Barclays also refused a 
reduced settlement  offer, provided by Mr Rs family. Barclays  did refund some  interest,  and 
paid Mr Rs representative  £100  compensation for a communication  error. Mr R wasnt 
happy with the response,  and brought the complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint, but agreed Barclays hadnt done anything  
wrong. They hadnt acted irresponsibly when lending to Mr R, or when they increased his 
credit limit. There  were no signs of financial difficulty in how he managed the account. He 
also said we cant tell Barclays whether to accept  a settlement offer.  Unhappy  with this, Mr R 
asked an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have sympathy  for Mr Rs 
representatives and can see the lengths  theyve gone to in trying to sort out Mr Rs affairs. 
However, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr R got the card in 2011, but the first significant  gambling activity wasnt  until January 2016.  
The credit limit had increased to £7,000  by this time. During  the period of Mr Rs gambling,  
Barclays increased his limit two more  times.  In February 2016, from £7,000 to £8,000, and in 
January 2018,  increasing the limit to £11,000.
I want to begin  by first exploring what Barclays should have done when they applied each of 
these credit limit increases, and then what they did do. In doing this, Im guided  by Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  rules, and Industry   the UK Cards Association  - best practice.
Barclays were  required  to abide by certain  rules when assessing if Mr R should have been 
offered a credit limit increase. These  required Barclays to undertake certain tasks, including  
a creditworthiness  assessment - considering  how any increase may potentially affect Mr Rs 
financial situation. Barclays needed  to take account of information  within  its possession  
Ref: DRN86507492about the way Mr R had managed his account, his ability to meet his monthly repayments, 
plus information from a credit reference agency. It also had to undertake  one further check, 
from a list of three  reviewing Mr Rs income and expenditure, how hed handled his 
finances in the past,  or a review of results  of their internal  credit  scoring techniques.
These rules  also guide Barclays  to specific situations where an increase should not be 
provided. These include instances of account arrears, exceeding the credit limit or where the 
customer is thought  to be at risk of financial difficulties. This is defined as including  changes 
in repayment behaviour  or paying  the minimum payment  over an extended period where the 
balances have been relatively  high.  Barclays were also required to write to Mr R before 
applying the limit increase, making it clear  he could refuse it if he wished. And Barclays have 
confirmed that if account  behaviour changed,  in the period  between  the limit being  offered 
and applied, it would consider withdrawing  the offer of the limit increase.
Bearing this in mind, I now want to look at what happened at around the time Barclays 
applied the final two credit-limit increases to Mr Rs account. Im focussing on these 
because, having reviewed  Mr Rs statements, its clear thered been minimal gambling  
activity prior to any of the earlier increases, and the account appears well-maintained.
 
February 2016  credit  limit increase from £7,000 to £8,000
Barclays increased Mr Rs limit towards the end of February 2016. Ive looked  at Mr Rs 
account activity  in the period before this. I can see Mr R used the card for a few gambling 
transactions in October 2015. The account  balance by the beginning of January 2016  was 
just over £3,200.  Mr R then gambled just over £3,000  in a five-day period in early  January, 
with winnings (money paid back onto his account) of £1,000. There was then no gambling 
activity on the card for five weeks  although other  small purchases and a repayment  were 
made. When the limit was increased  to £8,000,  at the end of February,  these transactions  
had increased  the balance  to about £5,200. Whilst further gambling transactions  were then 
made after the increase was applied, for now I need to focus on what Barclays  did before the 
limit was increased.
As Ive mentioned  above, before applying an automatic  limit increase Barclays were required 
to perform certain tests.  Ive now seen evidence of these. Having reviewed this information,  
Im satisfied Barclays did undertake these  tests. Internal checks were made, including  how 
the account was managed, the spending  activity, and how much  of the credit limit was being 
used. Barclays have  advised they also looked at external information, from credit reference 
agencies showing the level of Mr Rs other  borrowing.  Ive seen how Barclays  assessed this.
And having looked at Mr Rs statements,  I can see hed stayed well within his credit limit in 
the year before the increase, and made monthly  repayments  averaging  nearly 15% of the 
balance during the previous seven  months (this ignores the £1,000 gambling credit Ive 
mentioned above). So taken together, I cant say Barclays acted irresponsibly by basing  their 
decision to increase Mr Rs credit limit to £8,000  on this information.
January 2018   credit limit increase from £8,000 to £11,000
Ive also looked  at Mr Rs account behaviour in the period between  the above  two increases. 
Mr R started to gamble  again immediately after his limit was increased in February  2016.  In 
the month after that increase, he made gambling transactions totalling just over £7,800,  with 
credits back on to the account  totalling just over £5,500 (£1,500 identifiable from a gambling 
organisation). By the beginning  of March 2016,  the card had reached its £8,000  limit.
Ref: DRN86507493The card was then rarely  used, with minimum payments being made for just over a year.  
This reduced  the balance to just under £7,800. Then, over the next seven months, until 
December 2017,  larger credits were made bringing  the card balance  down to just over 
£5,600. Thered been no gambling transactions on this account for 20 months by this time.
  
Its against this behaviour  I need  to consider Barclays  decision  to increase Mr Rs limit to 
£11,000 in January 2018. Echoing  my above comments, Ive seen evidence of the checks 
Barclays made before applying this increase, which mirrored those Ive mentioned above. 
These didnt identify Mr R as a customer who shouldnt be offered an increase.
Im conscious Barclays would have been  aware  of Mr Rs previous gambling  spend patterns 
- but thered  been no such activity on this card for nearly two years before this increase was 
applied. And whilst Mr R had clearly  been  paying  the minimum payments for an extended 
period on a high balance   so a sign Mr R may be experiencing financial difficulties and so 
should not be offered an increase  his repayments increased to an average  of 7% of the 
balance in the seven months before the £11,000  increase.
Taken together, I again  cant say Barclays acted  irresponsibly by increasing Mr Rs credit 
limit to £11,000 based on this available information. I can see Mr R started using the card for 
gambling transactions two weeks after this increase, increasing the balance from about 
£5,800 to over £10,000 in a seven-week period. But there was nothing in the way Mr R had 
managed his account in the period before this increase to suggest  he would then use the 
account in the way he did.
And, Barclays have said they could have taken steps to limit certain access if Mr R told them 
he had gambling  addiction problems. But he hadnt  told them,  and itd been nearly two years 
since his last gambling transactions. I cant say Barclays should  have  foreseen  Mr R would  
gamble again,  and so cant criticise their decision to increase the limit in 2018 when they did.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8650749