K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains HSBC  UK Bank  Plc trading as first direct  (first direct) are incorrectly  
chasing her for repayment of monies and have placed a default marker on her credit report. 
Mrs N is assisted in bringing her complaint by her husband Mr N.
background
Mrs N came to us as she was unhappy  with first directs response when she complained  
about them  chasing a debt for £500. She thought this had been  resolved and confirmed  in a 
letter from first direct  dated 19 July 2018. She told us the registration  of a default  on her 
credit file by first direct  for this disputed debt had resulted in her mortgage application with 
another lender being declined.
Our adjudicator found he couldnt say first direct had failed to notify Mrs N that she still 
needed to repay the outstanding debt on her account and that not paying the outstanding 
debt it would result in her credit file being affected. He thought Mrs N had refused to pay 
back the outstanding debt despite  the number  of warnings shed had to make her aware that 
she needed to pay it back. So he didnt uphold the complaint or ask first direct  to remove the 
default marker from Mrs Ns credit file.
Mrs N asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. She said she hadnt received  the 
final demand letter of 15 June 2018  from first direct and asked whether first direct were  able 
to prove  they sent it. She told us she hadnt appreciated that in order to close  her account 
with a zero balance first direct had to transfer  the £500 owing from an internal account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this isnt a complaint which I can fairly and reasonably uphold.
Theres no dispute first direct made a mistake on 4 January 2018 when - after Mrs Ns 
account shouldve  been closed - they allowed a standing order of £500 to be paid causing 
the account to be overdrawn. But the mistaken payment was to an account  held by Mrs N 
with another bank. Theres no dispute the £500 payment was received  in that account. And 
whilst I know thats only happened due to the banks mistake it doesnt  justify writing off the 
amount paid they in error. Mrs Ns had the benefit of the £500 which shouldnt have been 
paid to her and first direct are entitled to ask for it back. 
In the initial  complaint Mrs N brought to this service a view was issued on 8 June  2018.  
There the investigator found  first direct had already  responded fairly to her complaint. 
First directs proposal was to remove any charges on the account  caused by the mistaken 
payment and to ask for £400 of the sum to be repaid with Mrs N retaining  £100 as 
compensation for the inconvenience shed suffered. Mrs N rejected this saying the view was 
wrong, and told us she considered the matter  to be resolved and asked  for the complaint to 
be withdrawn. I know Mrs N received  a letter sometime later dated 19 July 2018 stating the 
account has a zero balance. But Im satisfied letters have  been sent before and after that 
stating the money  is owed. 
Mrs N was also put on notice by this service  that the money was owed and of the potential  
impact that could have  on her credit file. The view on 8 June 2018 stated It may be that 
Ref: DRN89091572First Direct  could  take recovery action so Mrs N should arrange to pay back  £400 as soon 
as possible. There was an exchange  of emails the same day dealing with Mrs Ns request 
to withdraw her complaint. During this the investigator told Mrs N Im not sure what  
approach first direct will take,  but it could potentially result in your credit  file being affected,  
and even a legal matter raised and went on to say I must  make you aware that its very 
likely you will receive a letter from HSBC soon chasing the outstanding  money,  based on 
what theyve told me. The full £500 remains unpaid so I cant  say first direct have done  
anything wrong  in pursuing  payment  or in registering the default on Mrs Ns credit file as 
thats a true reflection of the account and her dealings with them. 
Given how strongly Mrs N feels about what happened she may want to take the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
her dispute  with first direct informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Mrs N.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8909157