K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) lost a cheque  he sent to 
clear his credit card balance.  He would like £250  compensation.
background
Mr M says in January  2019 he sent JLFS  a cheque for £4,986.67 to clear his credit  card 
balance in full. He says the money  left his account  on 30 January 2019.
Mr M says when  he then called JLFS on 10 February 2019 it told him it hadnt received any 
payment against  his account since December 2018.
Mr M says he called again the next day as he wasnt happy that JLFS had declined  his 
request for an increased credit limit. And a block had been put on his credit  card.  He also 
made a payment of £7,905.66 to cover the then outstanding balance  on his account.  
He says at that point  JLFS said it would refund the interest charges on the account  as it 
hadnt been able to find the cheque. If offered Mr M 5000 partnership  points as 
compensation.
JLFS said the original payment hadnt been credited to Mr Ms account due to a processing 
error on the part of its clearing bank. In addition to the 5000 partnership  points Mr M 
accepted it offered Mr M £100  compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She found although JLFS  had made  a 
processing error she felt the £100  compensation offered  was fair in the circumstances. 
JLFS accepted this view but Mr M didnt. He didnt feel it was a fair outcome and asked for 
an Ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M feels strongly about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate  he is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator.
Theres no dispute that the cheque  Mr M sent in went missing,  that JLFS  put a temporary  
block on Mr Ms credit card when the account was in arrears, the situation was resolved  by 
21 February 2019  twelve  days after Mr M first called  JLFS, that Mr M has accepted  5000 
Partnership points (equivalent to £50) but declined JLFS offer of £100 compensation. 
JLFS has refunded interest charges and late payment fees .And said it will rectify  any 
adverse data on Mr Ms credit  file. I think this is fair as charges and any negative credit data 
are not due to any mistake on Mr Ms part.
The main  issue for me seems to be the level of appropriate compensation  Mr M would like 
JLFS to pay £250. JLFS  feels  £100  combined with the Partnership points Mr M has already 
accepted is reasonable.
I can appreciate when a payment of nearly  £5,000 goes missing this is a significant sum and 
this alone would cause some concern. Mr Ms account was then blocked so he couldnt use 
Ref: DRN89877862it. Although in one of the phone calls JLFS advised Mr M he only needed  to make the 
minimum payment to both avoid  charges  and take the block  off the account. Mr M chose not 
to do this but to pay the balance off in full  which had the same effect.
Mr M has told us that due to JLFS  error  he was unable  to pay for a loft conversion.  But he 
hasnt given us any evidence of this. So I dont  think I can reasonably take that into account.
In the phone calls between Mr M and JLFS the main priority seemed to be the purchase of a 
new car. Looking at Mr Ms credit  card statements he seems to have been able to make  a 
payment for a new car on 22 February 2019  the day after the missing payment was credit to 
his account. But Mr M hasnt given us any evidence  to show that  for example  an earlier  
car purchase  fell through and he incurred some costs as a result. So I dont think  I can 
reasonably take this into account in terms of considering what  an appropriate level of 
compensation is.
JLFS accepted responsibility for the mistake and resolved  it within twelve days. It has 
refunded charges incurred as a result. I appreciate Mr M has suffered some  inconvenience 
but I dont feel I have seen any evidence of actual loss as a result  of JLFSs mistake.  I feel 
the £100 JLFS  has offered, along with the 5000  Partnership points I understand Mr M has 
already accepted is fair compensation in this case.  
I appreciate this isnt what Mr M wanted.  So I leave it to him to accept, or not, JLFSs offer of 
compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that John Lewis Financial Services Limited has made a fair offer.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before  4 August 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8987786