K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  plc has charged  him a fee for repaying his loan early  despite 
taking out a new TSB loan.
background
Mr S took out a TSB loan for £7,000 in June 2017 and in December 2017 decided  to repay 
that loan by taking out a new loan for £9,000. He says he was charged a penalty  for 
repaying the first loan early but also charged  interest on the second  loan. Mr S says thats  
unfair and he would like the charge of about  £250 refunded.  He also questions  if TSB 
continued to charge him interest on the first loan until February  2018.
TSB says Mr S agreed to the loan terms and conditions which  state that an early  repayment 
settlement fee is due if the loan is repaid early.  It says its acted in line with those terms and 
conditions and hasnt  made a mistake. TSB says an early settlement fee was applied  on 22 
December 2017  of £222.62  on the first loan and that it was then closed. It says interest was 
correctly charged on the second loan.
Mr S had already  brought his complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt think TSB had made  
a mistake or acted unfairly. The adjudicator thought  that an early  settlement fee was due on 
the first loan under the terms and conditions and that interest was due on the new loan. The 
adjudicator did accept that Mr S hadnt received a response  to his complaint from TSB.
Mr S doesnt  accept that view and says hes been treated unfairly and caused distress. He 
says wasnt told about the combined  interest  rate of the two loans and says that information 
was hidden from him. Mr S also says that the banking  industry  needs  to stop this bad 
practice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for the same  reasons. I realise Mr S will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the first loan for £7,000 which  I think Mr S would 
have agreed to when the loan was taken out. And Im satisfied that it was made clear  that Mr 
S would have to pay a fee if he chose to repay  the loan early. So I dont think TSB made a 
mistake by charging that fee when Mr S decided to repay it early. I dont think  it matters  that 
Mr S repaid  the loan early  by using a new TSB loan and Im satisfied that fee would have 
been due even if Mr S used his own money  or a loan from a different business.
I appreciate that Mr S says that by using the new loan for £9,000  to repay the first loan then 
he also paid interest  on the new loan as well. But for the reasons Ive explained Im satisfied 
the two payments are separate and were  both correctly taken by TSB. And as Mr S had 
taken a new loan then he was correctly charged interest on it.
I dont think the charges  or interest due were hidden  as Mr S believes and I find that details 
of both were contained  within the loan agreements which  Mr S agreed to. I appreciate  that 
Mr S says he wasnt told of the combined interest  rate but I dont think there was a combined 
interest rate. I think one payment was the interest  on the new loan and the other  was the 
Ref: DRN81249132charge for repaying the first loan early. I can also see that Mr S choose  to refinance in this 
way and wasnt given  any advice by TSB.
I appreciate that Mr S says that banks and building societies shouldnt  act in this way. I have 
explained why I dont think TSB has made  a mistake  here.  But in any event we are not the 
regulator of banks and building societies  and so cant  fairly tell a business  how it operates.
Overall Im satisfied TSB hasnt made  a mistake or acted  unfairly  so I cant  order  it, as Mr S 
would like, to refund the early settlement fee he paid.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8124913