K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about eight high-cost short term credit loans that Sunny provided to Mr P 
from July 2016  onwards.  Mr Ps last loan was provided in July 2017. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint and thought that he shouldnt have been provided  
with loans six to eight. Sunny disagreed. So the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr P could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr P, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr P was unlikely  to have been  able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided loan six. 
I say this because  by this stage, Mr P had a history  of taking out further loans not too long 
after repaying previous  ones.  And some of them  for example loans five and seven - were  
even provided  when Mr P already had an outstanding  balance  on an existing loan. Im not 
persuaded that the loan repayments being less than a certain percentage of Mr Ps income 
Ref: DRN82552052or the fact that Mr P paid less interest on some  of the loans  two of the ones Sunny has 
referred to arent being upheld and I dont  agree  that amount of interest paid on the third one 
is low  means that it was fair and reasonable to provide these loans.
Mr P had to pay interest and charges on loans that Sunny  shouldnt  have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans six to eight;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all reference to loans  six to eight should be removed  from Mr Ps credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ps complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr P compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8255205