K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  with how U K Insurance  Limited  (trading as Direct Line) has handled the 
renewal of his buildings insurance  policy.
Mr F is represented  in this complaint by his solicitor,  who I will call Q.
background
Mr F has a power of attorney in place  to look after his financial matters. For some of these  
matters, the attorney couldnt decide  how best to move forward  so appointed Q to deal with 
them on Mr Fs behalf. One of those  matters was his buildings  insurance  policy  renewal.
Q renewed the policy on Mr Fs behalf  in early April 2018 by phone. Q has said it wrote to 
Direct Line at this time asking for the names  of the responsible people  to be changed  from 
Mr Fs previous solicitors  to people working  for Q. The premium was paid by Q. 
Towards the end of April 2018 Q received a letter from Direct Line, via Mr Fs previous 
solicitors, stating that the policy  had lapsed.  Q called Direct Line to discuss this and was told 
the letter had been sent in error  and Mr Fs policy had been  renewed. Following the phone 
call with Direct Line, Q said it sent an email  to Direct  Line confirming its previous request to 
change the responsible people on the policy. 
Direct Line replied some days later indicating that the change of names  hadnt  taken place. 
Q resubmitted the paperwork mid-May 2018.
In July 2018 Qs accounts team  noticed that the renewal premium  had been refunded.  Q 
called Direct  Line to find out why and was told the policy had been lapsed. Direct  Line 
confirmed it had lapsed in error. It reinstated the policy  so there  was no gap in cover and 
took the payment again from Q.
Q complained to Direct Line about  this, on Mr Fs behalf. It said Mr F had incurred additional  
expense because of Direct Lines error and it wanted compensation of £300. This would 
cover Qs professional charges for the work done  on Mr Fs behalf.  Direct Line didnt agree 
to this. It accepted  it had made an error in lapsing the policy  and offered £50 compensation.
Q brought the complaint  to our service. Our investigator agreed Direct Line had made an 
error. She recommended that Direct  Line settle Mr Fs solicitors  fees of £451.20. Q 
accepted this but Direct Line didnt.  It felt its offer of £50 was enough in the circumstances. It 
didnt think it should be liable for the solicitors fees as it was Mr Fs attorneys choice to 
appoint them and they should be aware of any associated costs.  
Direct Line asked for an ombudsmans decision so it was passed to me to look at. 
I initially gave both parties my thoughts informally. I said I thought £50 compensation was 
enough for the error by Direct Line. I didnt  think it was fair for Direct  Line to cover Mr Fs 
solicitors fees too. The administration to change the responsible people on Mr Fs file 
needed to be done. It was Mr Fs attorneys  decision to use Q, as they couldnt decide 
between them how best to manage Mr Fs affairs.  I didnt agree that it was fair for those 
associated costs to be met by Direct  Line. Q needed to make  a telephone call to Direct Line 
to sort the policy renewal  situation out, and £50 is reasonable  compensation for that.
Ref: DRN83658842Q didnt accept. It said it had duplicated work because  of errors made by Direct Line and the 
costs in replicating work should be met by Direct Line,  not by Mr F. Its asked for a final 
decision to be issued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be asking Direct 
Line to do anything  else. Ill explain  why.
Direct Line has already  accepted it made in error when it allowed  Mr Fs policy  to lapse, as it 
had received payment for it. So I dont need to make  a decision about that. I only need  to 
decide if the amount of compensation offered is enough. In this case I think  it is. 
Q has said it had to duplicate work.  It said it had to provide Direct Line with the relevant 
authority for it to be named on Mr Fs policy a couple  of times. Direct Lines information is 
slightly contradictory to this. Where information isnt complete, I have  to make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened. 
Direct Line has confirmed it received information from Q in April 2018  to change the names 
on the policy, but this information was incomplete. It admits it didnt do anything  with this 
information as Mr Fs policy was lapsed  on its records. Q sent Direct Line an email at the 
beginning of May 2018 to introduce  themselves as the new solicitors looking after Mr Fs 
policy. As the correct  authority hadnt been  obtained, Q had to provide  it. This would have  to 
happen to enable Q to manage Mr Fs policy going  forward. I appreciate  that Q believes it 
had already provided the required information  but Direct Lines records  suggest otherwise. 
Any administration costs  incurred by Q in providing this information to Direct Line are not as 
a result of any error made by Direct Line. As such I wont be asking Direct Line to consider 
compensating for that.
Im sure it came as a shock  to Q when it realised its payment for Mr Fs renewal had been 
returned. But this was rectified  following  a single telephone call to Direct Line. And        
Direct Line has confirmed Mr Fs policy was reinstated back  to the original renewal date, 
meaning there has not been a gap in Mr Fs cover. I know Q have  concerns  about what 
might have happened had it not noticed  the payment had been returned.  And it also has 
concerns about  what might have happened  had a claim occurred  during  the time the policy 
was incorrectly lapsed. But neither  of those things has happened  and Im only considering 
what has happened here, not what might  have done.
Its unfortunate Direct Line lapsed  Mr Fs policy  when it had already taken the payment. Its 
offered £50 for this mistake and Im satisfied thats reasonable here. The only additional 
work Q had to do to get the policy back on track was a phone  call and follow  up letter  to 
Direct Line.  The compensation  offered is fair for that work. Its up to Q to decide if it wants to 
accept this on Mr Fs behalf. If it does it will need  to contact  Direct Line to arrange payment.
Q has also asked for payment for the work  its done  in bringing Mr Fs complaint to our 
service. As Ive decided  that Direct Lines initial offer is fair I wont be asking it to consider 
any of Qs costs in bringing the complaint here.  I appreciate that Mr Fs power of attorneys 
couldnt decide how to manage  some of Mr Fs financial matters, but I cant  hold Direct Line 
responsible for any additional charges incurred by Mr F as a result of his attorneys choice to 
choose Q to manage  them.
Ref: DRN83658843my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8365884