K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that J D Williams & Company  Limited (JDW) misled  him into thinking  he 
qualified for interest  free credit and it overcharged him interest.
background
In 2013 Mr S opened an account with JDW. In 2018  he made a purchase and assumed it 
would be interest free. He based  this on an online advert which offered three months  interest 
free credit. He complained and JDW said the offer applied to new customers  only. His 
complaint was rejected and so he brought it to this service where it was considered by one 
of our adjudicators who didnt recommend  it be upheld.
She obtained the online advert which Mr S had seen and noted this said 25% of your first 
credit order  and pay no interest until March. It also stated  that the representative APR was 
24.9%, but added that credit is subject to status and creditworthiness.
She believed  it was sufficiently clear  that the introductory offer didnt apply to Mr S and so he 
was liable for interest. She asked  JDW  for details of the interest  rate charged and it 
explained that for Mr S it was 58.76%. It said that rate charged depended  on each 
customers circumstances. She said that JDW had made a legitimate business decision as 
to the rate and she couldnt  interfere  with that decision. 
Mr S didnt agree and said that it had increased his allowance and charged him a high 
interest rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr S thought his purchase would be interest  free having read the online  
advert. However, I am satisfied that the wording made  it clear  that this offer applied  to first 
credit orders. As Mr S was an existing customer he didnt  qualify.  I cannot  say that the advert 
was misleading.
Furthermore, I understand there  was link on the web site advert to JDWs term and 
conditions which make it obvious that Mr S wouldnt be able to access this offer.  Even if he 
wasnt sure it was open to him to seek further  clarification  from the business.
The advert refers to a representative APR and the rate agreed with each customer may vary. 
I believe the rate charged was in line with the credit agreement signed by Mr S and so I 
cannot say that it was wrong. I fear Mr S relied  on the advert  without looking more  closely at 
the details or referring back to his agreement. Therefore  I cannot  say with any safety that 
JDW has done anything  wrong. 
 
Ref: DRN82659232my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
23 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8265923