K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains as a director of B, a limited  company, that U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) 
unfairly declined  a claim and voided  insurance policies held by B when a claim was made for 
damage caused by a fire.
background
Mr S was a director of a limited company, B. He took out a commercial trade policy  with UKI. 
The policy was arranged through  a broker. In 2013 the business premises were seriously 
damaged by a fire. UKI investigated the claim that was made and declined cover. It also 
voided the policy from 2009 onwards. It said it hadnt been told about  County Court 
Judgements (CCJs) registered against businesses  connected to Mr S when the policy  was 
issued in 2009, and if it had been  it wouldnt have sold the policy.  It said it believed Mr S had 
acted deliberately in not disclosing this information  and so it wouldnt refund the premiums  
paid.
Mr S was unhappy and complained as a representative of B to UKI. His solicitors argued  that 
the CCJs prior to 2009 werent against  B, and the question asked by UKI in 2009, and in 
every year after that wasnt clear enough  to mean he should have disclosed the CCJs 
referred to by UKI. It conceded  there had been a CCJ in 2012 against B, which  fell to be 
disclosed, but said the circumstances of that werent serious enough  to mean UKI would not 
have provided  the policy.  Their view was that UKI should pay the claim but if not, and in the 
alternative, then UKI should refund the premiums paid by B from 2009  to 2013, and it 
shouldnt be entitled  to offset  this refund against amounts it had paid out on claims settled 
between 2009  and 2013.
When UKI rejected  the complaint, Mr S and his solicitors brought the complaint to our 
service. Our investigator said he didnt  think UKI had done  anything  wrong. He thought Mr S 
was under an obligation to disclose the CCJs when  the policy was renewed  every year since 
2009. And he said UKI had shown that it would not have provided the policy if it had been 
told about this.
Mr S and his solicitors didnt accept  this. They say that court decisions and this services 
approach is that a clear question needs  to be asked by the insurer  in order for it to be able to 
successfully argue that a misrepresentation has occurred. Theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Each of the polices  from 2009 until UKI voided them in 2014 would be treated as a separate  
contract of insurance. So UKI needs  to show that Mr S misrepresented his position when he 
took out each  policy,  and that it would not have provided those policies if the 
misrepresentations hadnt been  made. 
The relevant  law here is the Marine  Insurance  Act 1906, which  placed a duty of utmost 
good faith  on the parties to an insurance contract. The insured party is required to disclose 
every circumstance they know, or should have known, which  would influence  an insurer in 
deciding whether to underwrite a risk or what premium to charge.  This can be referred  to as 
materiality and inducement.
Ref: DRN80998342Each year between 2009 and 2013, when  Mr S renewed Bs policy, an annual declaration 
was completed.  On the first page of the declaration is a note which  says:
You (or the broker or agent completing  the form on your behalf) must provide all material  
information likely to influence the acceptance  and assessment of this insurance.  If you have 
any doubt as to whether a fact is material you should disclose it. Failure to disclose any 
material fact may invalidate your policy or may result in your policy  not operating fully.
Please note that the proposal  form, declaration  and the additional information on the 
insurance provided by you (or the broker or agent acting on your behalf) will be the basis of 
the contract  between us.
In each of the annual  declarations completed  between 2009 and 2013, there is a question  
which asks Have you or any director or partner ever had a County Court Judgement  
registered against you or been declared  bankrupt or insolvent? For the purposes  of these 
policies, the proposer was the company, B. So where this question refers to you, it should 
be interpreted as Has the business  or any director to partner of it ever had a County Court 
Judgement registered  against them or been declared bankrupt  or insolvent?  All of the 
annual declarations had the box for No ticked.
At the end of the annual  declarations is a final declaration,  which says, in part to the best of 
my/our knowledge  and belief the information given in this form is correct and complete in 
every detail. Mr S signed below this declaration.
Its my view that the policies can be divided into two groups.  The first group is the policies  
issued between 2009 and 2012.  The policy issued  in 2013 makes  up the second group. This 
is because a CCJ was registered against  B after the policy was renewed in 2012. Its not 
disputed that this wasnt disclosed when the policy was renewed in 2013. This is important 
as Ill explain below.  Ill consider whether UKI acted fairly in voiding these groups of policies 
separately.
The 2009   2012 policies
The solicitor  representing  Mr S argues that the question, as asked, didnt require Mr S to 
disclose CCJs which had been registered before 2009 against businesses  he was a director 
of. Those CCJS were registered against the businesses, not Mr S as an individual.
Mr S and his solicitors have referred to the case of R & R Developments v Axa Insurance . In 
this case, the insurer  had sought to void a policy because the insolvency of the claimants  
business hadnt been disclosed. The High Court concluded that if the insurer  intended to ask 
whether any business  in which the person seeking insurance had been declared insolvent,  
then this is what it should ask. The effect  of the question was whether individuals had ever 
had CCJs registered  against them personally. So, in this complaint, where  the question is 
similar, its argued that if UKI wanted  to know if any business connected to Mr S had had a 
CCJ registered against it, it could have asked  this specifically.
Mr S solicitors also say on his behalf that previous decisions of our service are consistent  
with this approach.  We have long held in our approach to these types  of dispute that the 
onus is on the insurer to ask clear  questions.  
So in essence, Mr S position  is that for UKI to be able to say he misrepresented his 
circumstances when  he provided information to UKI, it needed to ask a clear  question.  He 
Ref: DRN80998343contends that the wording of the question asked about Mr S, and other directors, in a 
personal capacity  and B separately.  He and his solicitors say theres no question  asked 
about whether  any CCJs were registered  against  businesses linked to Mr S.
The CCJs  prior to 2009 were registered against businesses  which  Mr S was a director of. 
They were  businesses which had similar names to this business and carried  out the same 
sort of activities. But they were separate legal entities to B. It was the CCJs against these 
businesses which werent disclosed  to UKI in 2009. 
I understand UKIs position here, which is that the way in Mr S businesses were trading, and 
that CCJs had been  registered against  them, should have been disclosed.  But I dont think 
that the question asked  were sufficiently clear such that Mr S was required to disclose them.
Im satisfied that a reasonable interpretation  of the question asked as detailed  on the 
proposal and renewal forms limited the scope to Mr S in a personal capacity and not, as UKI 
appears to have intended, any business hed ever been involved in. This means that Im not 
satisfied there was a misrepresentation  between  2009 and 2012 and as such  Im not 
satisfied it was fair for UKI to void these policies. B had the benefit  of the insurance cover 
under those policies,  and indeed claims were made and paid, so it would not be fair for me 
to expect UKI to refund the premiums paid.
But at renewal in 2013, Mr S should  have disclosed the CCJ against B, of which  he was the 
director, and so the issue for me to consider  is what UKI would  have done  had it known the 
correct information.  
The 2013  policy
Im still not persuaded that I should  ask it to reinstate the policy from 2013 and so consider 
the claim for the fire. Thats because after the 2012  renewal,  a CCJ was registered against  
B. And so its clear that this should have been disclosed when the policy  was renewed in 
2013. Mr S, and his solicitor, dont dispute this.
The argument put forward on Mr S behalf  is that UKI still need to show  materiality  and 
inducement. The solicitor has explained that the matter which  led to the CCJ arose  from a 
business dispute and, by the time of the policy being  renewed in 2013 it had apparently 
been resolved.  And because of that, they consider that UKI would still have underwritten the 
policy.
Even if the dispute  had been resolved, the question was whether  any CCJs had been 
registered against the business. Theres no suggestion that at the time of renewing the 
policy, Mr S didnt know about the CCJ which  had been registered  against B. And so this 
CCJ should have  been disclosed.
On the issue of whether it wouldnt have affected UKIs decision to provide insurance, I dont  
agree with Mr S or his solicitors. Im satisfied the evidence provided by UKIs regional 
underwriter shows the policy wouldnt have been offered if the CCJ in 2012 had been 
disclosed. 
Im satisfied that when  Mr S answered  the question on the 2013 proposal form to say that B 
hadnt had any CCJs registered against it, Mr S misrepresented  the position  to UKI. The 
wording of the question was whether  B had ever had a CCJ registered against  it. It didnt 
give the option to exclude any resolved  matters  or any indication that not every CCJ needed 
Ref: DRN80998344to be disclosed.  Mr S was under a duty of utmost good faith to disclose relevant information, 
but he didnt do so.
So Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly in declaring  the 2013 policy void. The effect of this 
is that the policy is treated as having  never  existed. And as the claim for the damage caused 
by the fire was made on that policy, the claim wouldnt fall to be considered. 
Mr S argues  that, even if this policy could be voided, the premium paid should be returned. 
UK says it hasnt refunded premiums as it considered Mr S had deliberately failed to disclose 
the liquidations and CCJs. Its well established  that when a misrepresentation is made 
deliberately or recklessly  and the policy then voided,  the insurer doesnt have to refund the 
premiums paid. 
Mr S and his solicitor contend that any misrepresentation which was made was neither 
deliberate nor reckless.  They said Mr S didnt recall being asked the question  by the broker  
the policy was arranged through.
Im aware that a separate complaint has been made by Mr S, representing B, about the 
broker. But for the purposes of this complaint, as Ive highlighted above, Mr S signed 
declarations indicating that all of the information  being provided to UKI was correct and 
complete  in every detail. So Im satisfied  that Mr S was, or should have been aware, that 
UKI were asking about all CCJs registered against  B. And Ive already said that this should  
have resulted in him disclosing the CCJ when  he renewed the policy  in 2013.
Im satisfied that Mr S either deliberately omitted to tell UKI about the 2012 CCJ, as he was 
aware that disclosing that information would have an effect on whether UKI was willing  to 
continue insuring B. Or, in the alternative, he didnt  check  the information  contained in the 
form was an accurate reflection of his circumstances  and didnt  care about the accuracy.  Im 
satisfied in doing so he acted recklessly  signing the declaration saying the information was 
correct and complete.  And Im persuaded that the misrepresentation  made was either 
deliberate or reckless.  It follows that UKI acted reasonably in retaining  the premium  when it 
voided the policy.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both UKI and Mr S solicitors responded to my provisional decision.  UKI had no further 
points it wanted  to raise.
In its response,  Mr S solicitors raised  a new point which hadnt previously been part of their 
correspondence with our service. They said the signature which appears on the proposal  
form from 2013 was not his, and that they believed this had been falsified by the broker who 
completed the form. They pointed to a statement given  by Mr S to UKIs agents  when  the 
claim was being investigated  in which he said this. They argued that this meant  it was unfair  
for UKI to say that Mr S had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented on the proposal  form, 
as he hadnt been aware of the contents  of it.
Mr S solicitors also said they didnt believe that UKI wouldnt have offered a policy to B if the 
correct information  had been disclosed on the proposal form. They believed that wording in a 
letter from UKIs solicitors suggested that the non-disclosure of a single CCJ would mean  the 
offering of a policy was at UKIs  discretion.  And they believed UKI would have sold a policy 
in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN80998345my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither UKI nor Mr S have raised  any new points in respect of the 2009 to 2012  policies, so I 
wont repeat  the points  Ive made  about  those policies. My decision with regards  to that 
remains unaltered.  So Im going to consider two points which have been raised. The first is 
the effect of the allegation made that the signature which appears  on the relevant form is not 
Mr S. And Ill also consider whether theres enough  evidence to show that UKI wouldnt 
have offered the policy if the relevant information  had been disclosed.
The signature on the proposal  form
As this complaint  is about UKI, rather than the broker,  Im not in a position to comment  on 
whether the signature on the form is Mr S or whether  the broker has falsified his signature  
as he alleges.  What I need to do is decide whether or not UKI were entitled  to rely on the 
information on the proposal form as being  an accurate presentation of the facts.
I dont think there would be any dispute  that UKI were  entitled to rely on the contents of the 
proposal form as being an accurate presentation of the facts, and that Mr S was aware  of the 
contents of the form and what  had been disclosed. Mr S had been placing insurance with 
UKI using  this broker for a number of years  and there was no reason at that time for UKI to 
suspect, or have any reason to suspect, that Mr S wasnt aware of what  was on the form. Im 
satisfied that UKI acted  reasonably in using the information on the form as a basis for 
offering a policy to B and entering  into a contract of insurance on the basis of the information 
provided on the form.
Mr S solicitors appear to accept that this is the case, but argue that its not fair for UKI to say 
that the failure to disclose information  was made  recklessly or deliberately. They  argue  that 
the premium paid in 2013 should be refunded.
I dont agree that UKI has acted  unfairly in retaining  the premium.  As Ive said,  UKI acted 
reasonably in accepting the information  on the proposal form as accurate. And so it follows  
that when it established that relevant information  hadnt been disclosed it was fair for it to 
consider the non-disclosure had been made either deliberately or recklessly, for the reasons 
Ive previously outlined.
Would UKI have sold the policy if the correct information had been disclosed?
Ive looked again at the proposal form for the 2013  policy, and note that the proposer is listed  
as B, and a separate business which Ill refer to as C. So it follows  that any CCJs against  B 
or C should have  been disclosed on the proposal form. This is important, as there  had been 
a CCJ issued against B for around £2250,  as Ive already mentioned,  but also a separate 
CCJ against C in 2013 for around  £900,  5 months  before the proposal  form was completed. 
So Im satisfied that both CCJs should have been  disclosed.
Mr S solicitors contend  that the 2013  policy under which the claim was made,  and which has 
been voided was in Bs name only, and that matters  pertaining to C were insured on a 
separate policy. And so they argue that the CCJ against C is irrelevant  to the policy  in Bs 
name. 
Ref: DRN80998346I dont agree that this is the case.  The proposal  form lists both B and C, and so its 
reasonable for UKI to have expected that all matters relating  to both companies to have 
been disclosed. Im satisfied that UKI has demonstrated by its previous actions and 
approach to the non-disclosure of matters  relating  to previous businesses that it would have 
taken into account  all CCJs registered against  any person or company, regardless of which  
company was being insured on the specific policy. 
Its apparent from the wording on the proposal  form that UKI wanted to be aware  of all 
possible risks relating to the companies  or persons connected to those companies. If C 
wasnt listed on the proposal form, Id be persuaded that the CCJ against it didnt need to be 
disclosed. But, having included the details of C on the proposal form, the CCJ should have 
been disclosed. 
As Ive noted previously, the question which was on the proposal form was Have you or any 
director or partner ever had a County Court Judgement registered against  any of you? And 
the you in this case  would  reasonably apply to B and C, as both companies  were listed in 
the relevant section of the proposal form.
B and C were noted on the proposal form as being registered at the same address  with Mr S 
as a director of both, which suggests  to me that a CCJ registered against C would have had 
an impact on UKIs considerations as to whether  it was willing  to provide a policy in Bs 
name. 
UKI has provided me with evidence from their guidelines that, if these two CCJs had been 
disclosed, it would have declined to offer a policy. Im aware that Mr S solicitors  believe that 
even if the proper information had been disclosed, UKI would have still sold the policy in 
2013. But based on the evidence I have available, I cant  agree this is the case.  Im satisfied 
that UKI has provided  sufficient evidence to show that if the two CCJs which  had been 
issued against  B and C in the year before the proposal form was completed,  it wouldnt have  
provided cover.
I remain satisfied that UKI acted  reasonably  in voiding the 2013 policy. And so it follows  that 
any claim made under that policy would be unsuccessful, as it is as if the policy never  
existed.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, U K Insurance 
Limited must:
Reinstate the policies held by B issued between 2009 and 2012 that its previously 
voided.
Remove any reference to these  policies from any databases on which these 
voidances were  recorded.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 October  2020.
Ref: DRN80998347Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8099834