K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that West  Bromwich  Building Society mis-sold Ms H payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked  the possible ways in which  the PPI might  have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Ms H says it was made clear that the insurance would support my application for a 
mortgage. She says,  I felt that if I didnt tick the box I would risk having my application 
declined I feel on reflection somewhat exploited due to my personal circumstances.
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly advise someone to buy an insurance  policy, even if the adviser  is partly  motivated 
by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  recommending.  The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative  to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say West Bromwich did something wrong  unless I had stronger supporting 
evidence of this. 
Ms H has said the mortgage form, where  is asks whether the customer wanted  PPI, had an 
implied condition  with no opt out clause nor explanation as the costs and coverage in any 
detail until after you sign up. But I dont agree that this is what  the form says.  It says:
A special  scheme  has been developed to enable you to meet your monthly mortgage 
repayments if you are off work as a result  of sickness, accident or if you are made 
redundant.
If you want cover under  this scheme,  please tick the box and we will send you an 
application form.
So, I dont that implies PPI was a condition; and it would be easy, at least  from the wording 
of the form, to just leave  the box unticked. The actual application  for PPI was through a 
different form. And I can see that Ms Hs application for PPI, using that form, was some 
Ref: DRN85946902months after her application  for the mortgage  was signed. So I think,  at least in the 
documents, West Bromwich presented the PPI as a choice. 
I think West Bromwich  recommended  the PPI to Ms H, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Ms Hs particular circumstances.  Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage can lead to 
significant difficulties;  and it looks to me as though a recommendation would have been  a 
suitable one, based on what Ive seen  of Ms Hs situation at the time:
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Ms H received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when she would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means she may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other  living costs.  This all would have put Ms H in a more  secure  
position, if shed  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Ms H couldnt afford the PPI when she took it 
out. 
Its likely  Ms H was eligible for the policy. 
 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well West Bromwich explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy. 
There was some information on the form, but that could have been clearer  and more 
detailed. But I dont  anyway think its likely  that full and clear  information about this would 
have affected  whether  Ms H took the PPI.
Its possible West Bromwich didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Ms H would have been  affected  by any of these. And shed be paying for it 
monthly, so she could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
      
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8594690