K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a fee-
paying Additions Active packaged bank  account which was sold to them  around  July 2009.
They say that they were  told they were not eligible for a fee-free account and that it was 
necessary to upgrade their account  to take further  mortgage borrowing.
background
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think  the Additions Active  account  
had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me 
deicide this case.
I think it might help to explain that where  matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, 
as is the case here, I have to decide this case on a balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was most likely to have  happened,  based on 
everything that is available.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told they were not eligible for a fee-free account. However, 
between their joint account (which is the account theyve complained  about) and their sole 
accounts, I can see that they had held fee-free accounts before and after the Additions 
Active account was sold to them. So Im satisfied that they were  aware  fee-free accounts  
were available to them and that they could have one if they wanted  one.
The main  aspect of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint is that they initially said that they were told 
they had to get the account  in order to take out a loan / overdraft / mortgage. They  later 
clarified that it was specifically a mortgage  that they were taking out. And Barclays has 
provided evidence  that they applied for additional  borrowing, secured on their property, in 
August 2009.  Therefore there was an application for borrowing around the time that the 
Additions Active account was sold to them.
However, Barclays has also provided  evidence to say that Mr and Mrs B had taken  out 
mortgages in May 2005 and January 2007.  So it says that Mr and Mrs B were  aware  that 
they did not have to have  a fee-paying account  to take out a mortgage.
Having carefully considered the competing points, and Mr and Mrs Bs recollections  of the 
sale, Ive not seen enough  evidence  to say that it was more likely than not that they were 
misled into upgrading  their account  to obtain their additional mortgage borrowing. I say this 
as they had previously  held fee-free  accounts, so were  aware  they were eligible to have fee-
free accounts. And they had previously taken out mortgages with Barclays, without needing  
to change the type of account. 
Ref: DRN89854562I can also see that Mrs B removed an Additions  packaged account  from her sole account not 
long after the Additions Active package had been  added to their joint account  presumably 
to avoid paying twice for similar benefits. This makes me think that they had an awareness 
of the benefits  that came  with the Additions Active  account and were  picking and choosing 
the type of account they wanted  rather than agreeing  to one because they felt they had to.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think the account was sold on an advised  basis. This 
means Barclays didnt  have to check if it was right for them.  But it did have to give them 
important information  about the account.  
Mr and Mrs B look to have been  aware of the monthly fee and I think its likely, in trying to 
make the account  attractive to them, that Barclays wouldve at least told them  what  benefits 
came with the account. 
I appreciate that Barclays may not have  given them all of the important information  about  the 
account, but I've not seen  anything about their circumstances that makes me think  they 
wouldve been put off from agreeing to it had they been given more  information about it.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B have not gone on to claim  or register  for the benefits.  And, perhaps 
with the benefit of hindsight, now think that the account has been  poor value for money. But 
that in itself doesnt mean that Barclays was wrong to have sold it to them  at the time.
So overall, Im not persuaded that the Additions  Active account was mis-sold. I appreciate  
that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, but I hope  they understand the 
reasons why I have  reached this outcome.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2020.  
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8985456