K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains, on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs B, that Lloyds  Bank PLC wont give 
him any information about cheques which were issued to three  beneficiaries.
background
Mr C explains  that Mrs Bs estate was distributed  to a number of beneficiaries  about  17 
years ago. But three of those beneficiaries  have  claimed they didnt receive  them. So he 
wants Lloyds to help him find out where the cheques have gone.
Lloyds told him that, due to the length  of time thats passed, it can only say that cheques 
were issued for the account and they were cleared as the account balance was zero when it 
closed. And it objected  to us looking at Mr Cs complaint because the event he was 
complaining about took place more than six years  ago. The adjudicator  agreed with the bank 
but after Mr C provided more information to this Service, an ombudsman said we could 
consider his complaint.
Mr C confirmed that the details he needs  are the bank  records  and statements of the three 
(possibly more) beneficiaries, the name of their bank or banks and the sort codes and the 
account numbers  of the recipients. Lloyds  said it could  only retrieve such information from 
the last six years. So it couldnt help him.
The adjudicator didnt think she could ask Lloyds  to do anything  further  because  the 
information being requested wasnt available any longer. Mr C wasnt  happy with this and he 
thought the adjudicators response was unacceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks are not expected to keep  records indefinitely and Lloyds has said it cant  retrieve the 
information Mr C requires  because it relates to events more  than six years  ago. Mr C is 
trying to get information  about three cheques which were issued on an account closed 17 
years ago and so I can understand why Lloyds  cant give him that information. 
I can see how strongly Mr C feels about  this so I know my decision will disappoint  him but I 
cant tell Lloyds to give him information it doesnt  hold. And I cant  find it was wrong of Lloyds 
not to hold this information indefinitely.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
the estate of Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before  18 April 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8510473