K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complained that a sofa she bought on credit was mis-represented  to her. And
shes unhappy the finance provider   Ikano Bank AB (publ)  (Ikano)  has declined her claim
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75).
background
I issued a provisional decision in October 2018  to explain  why I thought Mrs Es complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone  wanted to give me. This is 
an extract  from that provisional  decision:
Mrs E bought  two sofas and some carpets  from a large sofa retailer  in August 2017.  To pay
for the goods, Mrs E arranged a fix sum loan agreement with Ikano.
Before Mrs E purchased  the sofas, she went into store on a number  of occasions to see 
what options were available to her. On 8 August  2017,  Mrs E decided on the style of 
sofa she wanted. And enquired if she could  have this style of sofa made  in a colour 
shed seen on another sofa in store. Mrs E says she was told she could. And on that 
basis, she proceeded with her order.
Soon after, Mrs E was told that some of the carpets she had ordered  couldnt be provided  
within the agreed timescale. So Mrs E decided not to go ahead with her purchase of the 
carpets and asked for them to be removed from the order. Because this changed the 
amount Mrs E needed to borrow from Ikano, Mrs E needed to sign a new loan agreement. 
Mrs E said she agreed that the initial loan, and the later amended loan, would be repaid 
over a 36 month term.
Mrs E says on 10 August  2017, she went into the store to sign the new agreement but 
was told by a member of staff that she didnt need to.
Some weeks later, when Mrs E received  the paperwork  for the loan from Ikano,  she noticed 
the loan was due to be repaid over a 24 month term. When Mrs E called to query this, she 
was told this could  be changed but she would need to complete another  credit check. 
Knowing that this may have an impact on her credit rating, Mrs E decided against  this and 
to proceed with the loan over the 24 month  term.
In November  2017, Mrs Es sofas were  delivered.  She said she quickly noticed that the sofas 
were the wrong  colour. And the next day, her husband  (Mr E) went  into store  to say there  
had been a mistake.
The store manager went through the paperwork with Mr and Mrs E and confirmed that 
the sofas were  in the colour  written on the order form.  Mrs E says she told the store  
manager that this wasnt the colour she had requested.
Mrs E said the sales representative must have made a mistake when writing down the 
colour she had asked for  as the names  of the two colours were very similar. The 
branch manager  said it wasnt  possible to order the style of sofa Mrs E had purchased in 
the colour she had requested. So he didnt think she could have been told this. He also 
said Mrs E had signed  the order form which showed the colour  of the sofa ordered. So 
the goods delivered were those that Mrs E had requested  and signed  for. Mrs E was 
unhappy with this and said the sofas  had been  misrepresented to her. She wanted to 
return the sofas and cancel  her finance  agreement with Ikano.
Ref: DRN81017162During the course of this complaint, Mrs E was also sent a copy  of the amended loan 
agreement completed  on 15 August 2017. This agreement  has been electronically  signed. 
Mrs E said she wasnt in store  on this date and was specifically  told she didnt have  to sign 
a new agreement when  she was in branch on 10 August 2017. She said her signature  must 
have been forged by a member of staff. Mrs E says this is another  reason why the 
agreement should  now be cancelled.
Ikano has said the paperwork  shows that Mrs E has been delivered the sofas she 
requested, in the colour she requested on the order form. Its also said Mrs E came into 
branch on 15 August  2017 to sign the amended loan agreement. So Ikano  feels  it has acted 
reasonably in rejecting Mrs Es claim under section 75. Our investigator  agreed that Ikano 
hadnt done anything wrong  in rejecting Mrs Es complaint. Mrs E didnt agree. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As it stands, I dont think the complaint should be upheld. And Id like to explain 
why. 
It seems  to me that Mrs E has three  main  complaint  points:
1.That the sofas were misrepresented to her  she was told they would  be made 
in a different colour to the one she got;
2.She agreed a 36 month loan term but received a 24 month term; and
3.A member of staff in the supplying store forged her signature on the amended 
loan documents  completed on 15 August 2017.
The Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower  (in 
this case Mrs E) has an equal right to claim against  the credit  provider  (in this case  Ikano)  
if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or 
services (in this case the sofa provider).
So, I need to think about  whether the supplier misled  Mrs E about  the colour of the sofa 
she was ordering.  And if this is the case,  whether  Ikano has acted reasonably in turning 
down Mrs Es claim under section  75.
were the goods  mis-described?
I have thought about whether  Mrs E was told that she could have the sofa she ordered 
made in the colour that she says she pointed to in the store  (on another  sofa). However, I 
dont think I can say that in this particular case.  Ill explain  why.
There is a dispute  between what Mrs E says happened at the time of sale and what  the 
sales representative says happened. The representative has said he informed Mrs E that it 
wouldnt be possible to have the sofa made  in the colour she requested. And so he 
suggested a similar option, the one on her order form, and she agreed to proceed with this 
colour instead.
Ref: DRN81017163Where there is a disagreement between both parties, I have  to think  about the evidence  I 
have available  to me and what I think is most likely  to have happened.  And I think  its 
more likely that Mrs E was told she couldnt  have the sofa in the colour she wanted  and 
she went ahead with the closest alternative.
I say this because the sofa provider has told us that it was impossible for the style of sofa
Mrs E requested to be made in the colour she initially wanted  this colour wasnt available  
in the factory Mrs Es sofa was being  made  in. And Im satisfied that Mrs E wouldve been 
told this and a reasonable alternative  wouldve been  suggested.
And so, at the moment, Im not persuaded that an incorrect statement was made to 
Mrs E. So, I dont think its likely that there was a mis-representation. And I dont think  
Ikano has acted unreasonably in turning down Mrs Es claim under section 75.
the term of the loans
Mrs E has told me that she requested  both loans to be repaid over a 36 month  term. And all 
discussions about her monthly repayments  were based on this term. Ikano has told me that 
both loans were to be repaid over a 24 month  term. So, again, I need to look at the 
evidence available  to me from the time of sale.
Ive looked at the original loan agreement  completed by Mrs E on 8 August 2017.  And 
Ive also looked  at the amended agreement completed on 15 August 2017.  Both of these 
agreements state  a loan term of 24 months and the corresponding repayments.  And 
Mrs E has signed both of these agreements (albeit  she disputes signing the latter)  to 
confirm she agrees to what  they say.
Ive also taken into account that an affordability  assessment was carried out at the time. 
This document sets out that four term options  were discussed with Mrs E. It says that 
monthly repayments over a 6, 12, 18 and 24 month term were  discussed.  At no point does 
it say that repayments  over a 36 month  term were discussed with Mrs E or what  the 
monthly repayment would be over a 36 month  term. Mrs E has also signed this form to 
confirm that these were  the options  discussed  with her.
Given the importance of these documents, I think its likely that Mrs E wouldve read them 
before signing  them.  Had the term not been what Mrs E was expecting, I think Mrs E 
wouldve questioned  this at the time. I also think that Mrs E wouldve questioned the 
monthly repayment, which wouldve been much  higher over the shorter term than she says 
she agreed. But she didnt. She signed both agreements to confirm she was happy with 
what they said.
Ive taken into account what Mrs E has said about a 36 month term being discussed in 
store. And it may well have been.  And Ive also considered what Mrs E has told me about 
contacting Ikano about the term once the agreement was received. But ultimately  it looks  to 
me like a 24 month term was the one agreed  as both credit agreements clearly  state that 
this is what Mrs E agreed to when she was in branch.
So, whilst  Ive taken  what Mrs E has said into account, the evidence  from the time of sale 
suggests that a 36 month term wasnt an option  that was discussed. And Mrs E agreed  
to repay  the loan over a 24 month term.
the amended  agreement
Ref: DRN81017164Mrs E says she didnt sign the amended  loan agreement. She says she was told she didnt 
need to, and she wasnt even in store on 15 August 2017.  Shes told us she thinks the sales 
representative has taken  her details from the first agreement, which she did sign, and 
copied them  into the second  agreement. She says the sales  representative has then ticked 
the box on the form to confirm her electronic signature. Mrs E says that because of this, she
shouldnt be bound by the agreement. Ikano say that Mrs E went into branch to sign 
the agreement  herself.
Whilst I appreciate that Mrs E doesnt remember going into store, I have to rely on the 
information provided to me. And the amended agreement does suggest that Mrs E went  
into store  and agreed to the new terms. And there  arent any contact  notes demonstrating 
that Mrs E had been told she wouldnt need  to sign a new agreement.
Ultimately, the remedy Mrs E wants is to return the sofas and cancel her finance agreement 
with Ikano. But even if I were to be persuaded  that Mrs E didnt sign the amended 
agreement, this wouldnt give rise to the remedy Mrs E wants. If Mrs E didnt sign the 
agreement to confirm to the agreed changes, Id recommend that that the terms be carried 
out in line with what Mrs E wanted to happen. And this is what  has already happened in this 
case - the additional carpets were removed from the order.
So, whether Mrs E signed the agreement or not, and I think its most likely that she did, 
the agreement  was carried out in-line  with her wishes. And so it seems to me that the 
sales representative has simply amended the agreement  in-line  with Mrs Es request.  And 
this is essentially what Id look to recommend.
Having said the above, Ive also looked  at the second agreement.  And I dont think it is 
the case that Mrs Es details have  been  transferred from the first to the second.
Ikano has told me that the amended  agreement  must have been completed  in store  
its signed by someone  who works at the sofa supplier. Ikano tells me that this means 
Mrs E wouldve  needed  to be present to sign the document.  And I think she was.
I say this because whilst the same form of ID has been used on both the original and 
amended agreements  a UK Issued credit card or store card - two different cards have 
been presented.  On the first agreement, a card ending 7622  has been presented. But on 
the later, amended agreement a card ending 0029  has been presented. So, it isnt the case 
that Mrs Es details have  simply  been  transferred over from the first agreement to the 
second. And this suggests to me that Mrs E did go into store on 15 August 2017 to present 
her ID and sign. The goods were then delivered to Mrs E. And Mrs E has an obligation  to 
pay for goods she has received and had use of.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano has told me it agrees with my provisional  decision. Mrs E, via her representative, Mr E, 
has told me she doesnt agree with my provisional  decision. And shes  raised a number of 
further points  and provided me with more  evidence. Mrs Es response to my provisional  
decision goes into some detail and the bullet  points below are designed to be a summary  of 
these points - I have read her letter in detail and responded to all the points I feel are 
material to the outcome  of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN810171651.Mr E has pointed  out his wife wasnt with him when he went into the store to 
complain on 9 November  2017 and it was the store  salesman, rather  than the store  
manager, who went through the paperwork with him.
2.Mr and Mrs E visited another  branch of the sofa retailer before purchasing  their sofa 
and the representative in this store also confirmed it would be possible to have the 
sofa in the leather theyd seen  on a different sofa in store.  Mr E says this shows it 
was possible and the selling store has lied to the ombudsman service.
3.Mr E highlights  the dispute between what Mrs E says happened  in store and what the 
retailer says happened. Mr E has said there is no evidence  to substantiate what  the 
retailer has told me. Mr E has also pointed out that the retailer  has not put its 
description of events in writing  to him. 
4.Mr E reiterated that there had been  a discussion about the term of the loan being 
taken over 36 months and this is what was agreed. Mr E asks why would  Mrs E have 
contacted Ikano when she received the loan agreement had this not been the case. 
Mr E asks why the affordability assessment hasnt  been  brought  to his attention by 
the retailer sooner  - if it was available. Mr E says this is because  this document  is a 
forgery.
5.Mr E has said it is not his wifes signature  on the affordable assessment. Mr E says 
his wifes signature has been  forged by the retailer. Mr E has asked  if I have referred 
this point to a hand-writing specialist. 
6.Mr E has reiterated that Mrs E did not sign the amended loan agreement  and 
because of this, its invalid. Mr E points  out that there would have been nothing to 
stop the retailer drawing up a new agreement  based on the information it held about  
Mrs E  the card number on the second  agreement was the one used to set up the 
direct debit  used to repay the borrowing. So it was available  to the sofa retailer  at the 
time. Mr E also wants to know  why I have not contacted Mrs Es daughter who can 
confirm Mrs E went into store  to sign a new agreement on 10 August 2017 and was 
told she didnt have  to.
7.Mr E has pointed  out that the compliance documents relating to the amended  
agreement have  not been signed  by Mrs E. 
Ive carefully considered  the additional points and evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs E 
and Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision  that this 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ill explain why and Ill address each point in turn.
I acknowledge what Mr E has said about  his wife not being in branch with him when 
he complained  on 9 November 2017 and it being  the store salesman - rather than the 
store manager - who went through the paperwork with him. But this makes  no material 
difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
were the goods  mis-described?
In my provisional decision I said there was a dispute  between what Mr and Mrs E said 
happened in store and what the retailer said happened. 
I wasnt party to the actual discussions that took place. And there are no customer 
contact notes recording what  Mr and Mrs E were told at the time of sale. So I cant 
know for certain what was agreed.  But where there is a dispute, as there  is in this 
case, I need to decide what I think is most  likely to have happened. 
Ref: DRN81017166The sofa retailer told me it wouldnt have been  possible to fulfil Mr and Mrs Es 
request to have the style of sofa they wanted  in the colour theyd pointed  to in store. 
The colour they wanted wasnt available  in the factory their sofa was being  made  in. 
And I thought had the salesman checked  this on 8 August 2017 he wouldve known 
this - and advised  Mr and Mrs E accordingly. The sofa order form, completed on the 
day, also detailed  the colour that had been delivered. So, on balance,  I wasnt 
persuaded that an incorrect  statement was made to Mrs E.
Mr E has now provided me with further  information.  Hes told me he and Mrs E also 
visited another branch of the sofa retailer around  the time the sofa was purchased. 
Hes said a member of staff in this store also confirmed it would be possible to have 
the style of sofa they wanted in the leather they had seen on the other sofa. Mr E says 
this proves this option was available - there wouldve been no reason for the member 
of staff to tell him this if it wasnt true. Mr E hasnt  raised this point before  and I 
havent been provided with any evidence, such as contact notes to indicate this 
conversation happened.  However, Mr E has said he believes this proves  the retailer  is 
lying to the ombudsman service about  this option  being available  in order to support 
its version of events.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr E has told me. And to this end, I asked the retailer to 
provide me with evidence to show Mr and Mrs Es request  wouldnt have been  possible. 
Namely, I asked for the sofa retailer to get confirmation from the sofa manufacturer  that the 
leather Mr and Mrs E requested wasnt available in the factory their sofa was being made in. 
The sofa manufacturer has now confirmed  it wouldnt have been possible to fulfil Mr and 
Mrs Es request for the above reasons.
Mr E doesnt  believe the emails from the manufacturer  are authentic,  he believes the 
manufacturer has been told to supply information  in the sofa retailers  favour;  and has 
raised the point  that the email responding to the request for information  appears to have 
been sent before the request itself.  
I dont share  Mr Es concerns. I havent  seen anything that would persuade  me that the 
manufacturer has somehow been  influenced by the retailer.  Ive reviewed the emails and I 
have no concerns as to their authenticity either.  I also have no concerns about the timing of 
the emails  the manufacturer  was abroad at the time and this accounts for the time 
difference. Overall,  Im satisfied that Mrs E request could not have been satisfied as 
requested. So, I dont know why Mr and Mrs E wouldve been  told by a member of staff in 
another branch this was an available  option  at the time. It wasnt.  And I think  its more  likely 
Mrs E wouldve been told this and a reasonable alternative suggested.
So, Im not persuaded that an incorrect statement was made to Mrs E. And I dont  think 
its likely  there was a mis-representation. Because of this, I dont  think Ikano has acted 
unreasonably in turning down Mrs Es claim under section 75.
the term of the loans
In my provisional decision,  I also highlighted that there was a dispute  between what Mr and 
Mrs E said had been agreed  about the term of the loan and what the retailer  told me had 
been agreed. 
Ref: DRN81017167Again, I wasnt party  to this discussion, so I cant know for certain  what  was discussed  and 
ultimately agreed. I need to think about  what I think is most likely to have happened. And so I 
looked at the paperwork  completed  at the time of sale. In this case,  I highlighted the 
affordability assessment.  This documented detailed the loan terms discussed  with Mrs E. 
And this document made no mention  of a term amounting to 36 months. Mrs E had signed  
this document  to confirm these were the options discussed with her. And shed also signed 
the loan agreement, which stated  a loan term of 24 months.
Mr E responded to my provisional decision to say he believes  the affordability assessment  
has been forged to support the sofa retailers version of events. He says the sofa retailer 
didnt mention this form when he first raised  this aspect  of his complaint. And had this 
document been available,  he believes it would have done. Mr E says it is not his wifes 
signature on the form and has requested that I consult a handwriting specialist on this point.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr E has said but I havent seen anything that persuades me 
this form isnt from the time of sale, or that Mrs E didnt sign it  I think  the signature on this 
form is sufficiently similar to Mrs Es signature. And I still think this form is a good indication  
of what was discussed at the time.  
I also cant ignore, and I think this is the most  important point here,  Mrs E signed the loan 
agreement completed  in store that sets out a loan term of 24 months.  Given  the importance  
of this document, I dont think its unreasonable to assume she read what it said before 
signing it. If shed been unhappy with anything  in the agreement,  I think she would have 
raised this at the time.  
Ive taken into account what Mrs E has told me about contacting Ikano about the term once 
the agreement  was received. But ultimately it looks to me like a 24 month term was the one 
agreed in branch.
The amended loan agreement 
Mr E has reiterated Mrs E did not sign the amended finance agreement and because 
of this, its invalid.  Mr E points out there  would be nothing  to stop the retailer drawing 
up a new agreement based on the information  it held about  Mrs E. Specifically, the 
retailer knew Mrs Es bank  card details  theyd  been used to set up the direct  debit 
attached to the finance agreement. Mr E has pointed out this is the card that has been 
used as ID in the second  agreement.  And so it doesnt necessarily  follow that Mrs E 
was in store on 15 August 2018  presenting  her ID. 
The second  agreement also lists Mrs E as separated rather  than divorced. Mr E 
doesnt think Mrs E wouldve made  this mistake and that this is also an indication of 
forgery. Mr E has pointed out the agreement is signed with an electronic  tick so 
anyone couldve ticked the box without Mrs E being present.  Mr E also wants  to know 
why I have not contacted Mrs Es daughter, wholl confirm Mrs E went into store  to 
sign a new agreement on 10 August 2017 and was told she didnt need  to.
Ive taken into account all of the points  raised by Mr E. But again I have to point out that 
even if I were to be persuaded  Mrs E didnt sign the amended agreement,  this wouldnt give 
rise to the remedy he wants.  If Mrs E didnt  sign the agreement to confirm the agreed  
changes, Id recommend that that the terms be carried out in line with what Mrs E actually 
wanted to happen . And this is what has already happened in this case  - the additional 
carpets were  removed from the order.
Ref: DRN81017168I agree  with Mr E that it would be possible for the sofa retailer  to draw up a new agreement 
using the details it held about  Mrs E. And I acknowledge what  hes told me about the 
retailer having access to the card details that are listed as ID on the amended  agreement. I 
also agree  its possible  the box couldve been ticked by someone other than Mrs E. But I 
also need to think  about the intention of the amended agreement.  
It isnt disputed that Mrs E wanted  the carpets removed from the order. And it isnt disputed  
Mrs E contacted the sofa retailer to remove them and amend the agreement.  So any 
changes made to the agreement were made at Mrs E request - she specifically asked for 
the changes to be made. And so the retailer acted on her instruction and removed the 
carpets she no longer  wanted. Presumably so she wouldnt be delivered of and have to pay 
for products she didnt  want.
So, whether Mrs E signed the agreement or not, and I think its most likely that she did, 
the agreement  has been amended because Mrs E asked  for it to be. And this is 
essentially what Id look to recommend were I to be persuaded Mrs E hadnt signed the 
agreement.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Ikano Bank AB (publ) has acted reasonably in 
handling Mrs Es complaint. So I wont be asking Ikano Bank AB (publ)  to do anything  
further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8101716