K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  sold with a credit  card.  
Mrs C has brought the complaint in respect  of her late son, Mr C.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mrs C didnt 
agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im sorry  to say that Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
It seems  that in 2004 the late Mr C took out a credit  card with Capital One (Europe) plc and 
was sold a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy at the same time. The PPI policy 
covered Mr C in event of him losing his job or being unable to work. Because  Mr C 
subsequently went on to lose his job, he made a claim  on the PPI and in total was paid 
£2,201.32 in accordance  with the rules of the policy.
In 2012 Mr C became  aware of PPI mis-selling and lodged  a complaint against Capital One. 
But because hed only ever paid £972.72  in PPI premiums, he wasnt  due any money back.  
This is in accordance  with the approach generally taken to PPI mis-selling  cases. 
Consumers who were  mis-sold PPI are entitled to be put back  into the position  they would 
have been in had they never been sold it in the first place. 
So even after refunding all Mr Cs premiums,  with interest, the amount due back to him 
would have been significantly less than he was paid for his out of work claim. In later years, 
it seems the late Mr C experienced difficulties with his credit card account  in that it 
accumulated outstanding  debt and was eventually closed with money  being  owed.   
However, in 2018  Capital  One wrote to Mrs C about  her late sons  credit card account. I can 
understand she wouldnt have been  expecting this and I certainly think  Capital  One could 
have been more sympathetic to the circumstances. I also think  it could  have explained things 
more clearly so as to not raise any false hopes.
Nevertheless, Capital  One was obliged to contact Mrs C as she oversaw her late sons 
financial affairs. And it was required to let Mrs C know that new rules had been established 
in relation to the commission (and profit sharing) elements  some  businesses had historically 
received from selling PPI to consumers, like her late son. Capital Ones letter  implied some 
redress might be due on his account  and so perhaps not surprisingly, Mrs C followed this up.
We now know that the late Mr C was unfairly  charged around £509.20 (this includes interest) 
for the commission element Ive mentioned above. But because  his credit card account was 
in arrears at the time of his death, the amount  above was used to offset  those arrears.  
Ref: DRN85321162Mrs C is upset by all this and Capital  One might wish to reflect  on how it might  have 
communicated more  sensitively and clearly with her. However, Im afraid I agree with our 
adjudicator that the money being used to offset the debt in this way is in accordance with 
established practice. 
In short,  Capital One is allowed to do this because the late Mr Cs account was in debt. Im 
therefore sorry to have to tell Mrs C that her complaint isnt being  upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and Capital One (Europe) plc does  not have to pay back any 
money to Mrs C.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C (on behalf 
of the late Mr C) to accept  or reject my decision before 1 December 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8532116