K820x#14complaint
Mrs C made  a claim on her motor insurance policy after her car was stolen. She complains 
that CIS General Insurance Limited didnt offer her enough for it. 
 
background
CIS used  three national  trade guides to value Mrs Cs car. It offered her £22,740  - which was 
the highest valuation set out in the three  guides.  Mrs C said she couldnt  replace her car for 
that sum.  She said the cheapest similar car shed seen advertised was priced at around 
£1,000 more. Mrs C eventually replaced  her car with a similar  one that cost her £24,194.  
She provided evidence  of her purchase  and adverts for higher-priced cars.
One of our investigators  considered Mrs Cs complaint. She said the policy  covered  Mrs C 
for the cars  market value,  not its replacement value. She was able to check two of the 
valuations CIS relied on and also checked  another trade guide. The average  valuation she 
got was slightly  higher  than the sum CIS had offered Mrs C. But she thought CISs offer was 
fair, as it was still in line with the valuations shed found.  She noted that the cars low 
mileage and its clean  condition had been taken into account, but pointed out that not all the 
extras Mrs C had paid for added value.
Mrs C asked for a review of her complaint by an ombudsman. She said she didnt think  the 
evidence shed provided had been  taken into account. She thought even a £10 difference 
between valuations was significant. The investigator said all Mrs Cs evidence had been 
considered, but that we dont usually  rely on advertised prices. She remained of the view 
that CISs  offer was reasonable. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
As the investigator  pointed out, the policy only covers the cars market  value. We dont  
generally rely on advertised prices for cars,  as theyre usually subject to negotiation. Small 
differences between  cars can lead to large  differences in their asking price. Its also the case  
that extras dont always mean higher  selling  prices, but they may inflate asking prices.
We think the fairest way to establish what a cars  market value is likely to be is to check the 
valuations given in the trade guides,  as theyre  based on extensive  national  research of likely 
selling prices. CIS followed our approach in valuing Mrs Cs car.
The investigator was able to check another guide  that CIS hadnt used. Although  the 
average of two of the guides  CIS used plus the fourth guide  was slightly  above the offer CIS 
made to Mrs C, the average  of all four guides was £22,429. As CIS offered  Mrs C £22,740, I 
think its offer was reasonable. As the valuation  was disputed, CIS offered to pay Mrs C on 
an interim basis  within a short time of the claim being made. I think that was also fair. 
Mrs C has shown that she paid just under £1,800  more  than CISs offer for her new car, but 
in my opinion that doesnt mean  CIS did anything wrong. It asked a second  engineer  to 
check the valuation  carried out by the original engineer. We have been  able to confirm that 
Ref: DRN86932712the valuation was reasonable. I appreciate that Mrs C doesnt  think our approach  is the right 
one to take, but we think its the fairest one.
As I dont think CIS acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8693271