K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs P bought the PPI policy at a meeting in 1987 at the same time as taking a 
mortgage. The policy cover was increased  in 1989 when they took a further  advance.
At the time of the policy sale Mr P was employed  as a manager  in the construction  sector. 
Hed been with his employer for around a year and was there when  the policy increase took 
place too. Hes told us he was entitled to redundancy pay and at least  six months full sick 
pay and that in 1987 he didnt have any other  means, like savings, with which to pay the 
mortgage if he couldnt work. From what Mr P has told us, he was in good health  at the time 
of the sale and hadnt had any health  issues prior to the sale or the policy  increase.
Mr and Mrs P have  told us Mrs P was employed  part-time at the time of the sale. Her 
employment details  werent recorded on the mortgage application  or for the further  advance  
- so it looks like the borrowing was mostly based  on Mr Ps income.
The policy provided  cover  on Mr P for accident,  sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. Initially it cost £10.50 a month and for a successful claim offered 
to pay £210 a month to help Mr and Mrs P with their mortgage related costs. This increased  
to a £236 benefit costing  £11.80 a month  when  Mr and Mrs P took the 1989 further advance.  
Unemployment claims were  limited to 24 monthly  benefit payments per claim.  There wasnt,  
when the policy started, an equivalent  limit on how long the accident or sickness benefit 
could be claimed,  and this was still the case at the time of the 1989  increase.
B&B has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2007. 
Mr and Mrs Ps representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. I will not restate them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. 
In summary,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  says:
 B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs P wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&B should have told Mr and Mrs P 
about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN87772582The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs P and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs P received was misleading. These policies  were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons  and Mr P has 
sent detailed responses containing a number of points. I wont  set them  all out here, but Ive 
considered them all carefully - including all Mr P has said about  the cost of the policy  and 
about the cover for health issues.  I acknowledge  here what  Mr P has said about  not having  
time in his current circumstances to address  all the points  hed have liked to  Im grateful to 
him for the time hes spent in responding to us and for the points  he has made.
What Mr P has said about cost includes: Mr and Mrs P were  denied the opportunity  to make 
a choice as they werent given all the facts,  particularly costs; it wasnt  made clear to them 
what the policy would cost - and £10 was a lot 30 years  ago; the first time they were made 
aware of the £10.50 a month cost was from our assessment nearly  30 years later. 
What Mr P has said about the policy cover for health  issues  includes: Mr and Mrs P werent  
told, and cant  believe, the policy didnt cover health issues, which  is exactly  what  insurance 
is for  if the PPI didnt cover Mr Ps future  health  then what  was he insured against?
As regards  cover for health issues, to clear up any misunderstanding I should  explain here 
that the policy did cover health issues  but subject to certain limitations  and exclusions that 
Ill discuss in more  detail  below. So, subject to those, the PPI did cover  Mr Ps future health.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ps. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN87772583The policy was sold and increased before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
The policy increase took place in 1989  at which time there  were  a number of industry codes 
in existence.
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
Im satisfied these codes are applicable  to the increase. At the time of the policy  sale there 
were fewer requirements on a business when selling insurance such  as this - because  the 
policy sale took place  before these  codes and the first industry codes of practice for sellers 
of insurance were introduced in 1989. But it seems to me B&B has considered  the sale of 
the policy against the later standards  it doesnt  appear to have considered Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint about  the policy sale any differently. 
So, on the basis that it puts Mr and Mrs P in a more  favourable position, in considering what  
I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, Ive taken into account 
these industry codes of practice not only when  considering the policy increase but also when 
considering the policy  sale. Ive also taken  account  of relevant law in reaching  my decision,  
including: the law relating to negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including  the 
express and implied  duty on professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care 
and diligence);  the law relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to 
causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Ref: DRN87772584Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the PPI was appropriate or suitable  for them,  given their needs  and 
circumstances. 
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take the PPI, including drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Ps 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs P 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs P know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. 
Mr and Mrs P havent said anything to make  me think they werent  given a choice about  the 
PPI or were pressured  into it. Also, the mortgage application form had a PPI section  where 
the amount of cover for each applicant could be specified  and it had a box that could be 
crossed if protection wasnt  required. This makes it look like B&B presented  the PPI at the 
time as optional. On Mr and Mrs Ps form, the box to say no to PPI wasnt ticked   instead  
cover of £210 was entered in the box for Mr P. No cover was requested for Mrs P.
For the PPI increase, the loan application  form Mr and Mrs P signed said PPI was available 
and had a box to say either Yes or No to it. On Mr and Mrs Ps form, Yes was written  in 
this box. Mr P also signed a separate PPI application form for the increase that set out the 
increase amount. Taking  everything into account, I think  its more  likely Mr and Mrs P knew 
the PPI was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
Ref: DRN87772585B&B says it didnt provide advice when  selling the PPI. Mr and Mrs P have indicated they 
cant recall whether advice was given. With all this in mind, Im not persuaded B&B provided  
advice. 
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs P. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable them to make an 
informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including drawing to their attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs P were  given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr P were  unable to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs P wouldve taken the 
policy without any sense  of what it was for and of how much the premium might  be. 
Also, the further advance form said the PPI could provide cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment and on the form for the PPI increase  the option to include unemployment  
cover was ticked (cover for accident and sickness only was also offered on the form). The 
monthly benefit amount for Mr P was set out on the mortgage application form and the PPI 
increase form set out the amount of the benefit  increase.  Both those forms also stated that 
cover wasnt  offered for impending unemployment  and known medical conditions that might 
become the subject of a claim.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs P 
agreed to take the PPI.
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs P sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the PPI, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ps representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Ps. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ps representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN87772586-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ps representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs P have  suggested.  And, taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude B&B ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs P? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found B&B didnt do all it should have done when it sold this PPI to Mr and Mrs P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not they would have 
still taken the PPI, had B&B done  things properly.
Mr and Mrs P say they wouldnt have taken  it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs P had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the PPI against  the benefits  offered and the potential consequences  if they didnt insure 
against the risk of Mr P being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs P chose to take this PPI. So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs P thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs P have  suffered  any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs P were given about  the benefit amount was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the PPI, such as the cost,  limitations  and exclusions, 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
It doesnt appear B&B told Mr and Mrs P the exact  premium at the point they applied.  I note 
here that, as well as the points Ive already noted  above, Mr P has asked if it can honestly be 
believed that if hed known the true costs, he wouldve committed to paying them. 
Ive considered this carefully.
I dont think it likely  Mr and Mrs P wouldve taken the PPI or increased it without some  idea 
of the approximate cost.  On each occasion  they had a decision to make about whether to 
have the cover - and I find it hard to imagine someone taking that decision without having 
some regard to the possible  cost.  
Mr P has said they were never aware  of the actual cost while  they were paying  it. Taking  into 
account what theyve  said about  the premium being a significant amount  at the time, Id find 
Ref: DRN87772587it surprising if Mr and Mrs P paid this amount out each month without being aware of the sort 
of amount they were paying. If when they started to pay for the PPI they became aware of 
the sort of amount  they were paying  for it, I think that if this had been  significantly different to 
the sort of cost theyd anticipated  at the sale, they mightve raised this with B&B at the time 
or reconsidered their decision. But instead  they continued to pay for it and later increased it.
Mr and Mrs P agreeing to increase cover  a year or so after first taking it, in my view doesnt  
add weight to or support the idea that the initial cost wasnt acceptable to them. Also,  as Ive 
noted, while it is possible that the subject  of increasing the cover mightve been discussed 
and addressed at that time without  any regard to or discussion  of possible cost, I think  it 
more likely some consideration wouldve been given to the way the cost might be increased.
Given the long period  of time over which they paid for the cover, and the possibility that the 
cost wouldve been visible on bank statements or policy  statements or renewal  notices or 
material of that kind,  it would be surprising if Mr and Mrs P were never actually made  aware 
of the actual cost of the policy, as they believe.  Given how long ago these events were, if it 
did come  to their notice at the time, they may well have forgotten  it since.  But even if Mr Ps 
recollections about this are right and the actual cost somehow  did not come to their attention  
throughout that period,  my view remains  that it is unlikely Mr and Mrs P agreed to the PPI, or 
the increase, without  having some idea of the approximate cost.
With all Ive said above in mind, overall  Im not persuaded  Mr and Mrs P wouldve found the 
PPI cost unacceptable if theyd been given the exact  figures  when they agreed to the PPI.
Returning to the information Mr and Mrs P were given about other aspects of the policy, and 
what they might reasonably have believed or expected of the policy, the following are 
possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs P thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought:
The policy excluded claims relating to illness which had shown itself before the PPI start 
date, any recurring  injury or illness returning  in the first twelve  months of the PPI and any 
disability caused  by any infirmity for which  Mr P had sought medical  treatment in the 12 
months before the PPI start; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr P wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
For unemployment the policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the 
remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs P pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the PPI 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs P from taking the PPI.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances  when they bought  the PPI shows  it 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr P was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mr and Mrs P should 
the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest  Mr P 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions - he didnt have any pre-existing  
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment, for example. So, as Ive already 
noted, the policy provided cover for Mr Ps future  health and in his case  the exclusions and 
Ref: DRN87772588limitations associated  with that didnt affect him and so wouldnt have affected how he could  
benefit from the cover. So, I think Mr and Mrs P still had some good reasons to take the PPI.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy for Mr P without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr P needed  to be totally unable to carry out his usual job. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what he wouldve expected. It seems unlikely hed 
have thought hed be able to make a successful claim if he were  still working.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs P that any claim Mr P made for unemployment would be 
limited to 24 months. This may have  differed from what they expected and mightve hoped 
for. But Mr Ps redundancy entitlement was likely significantly less than even 12 months 
income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs P wouldve still thought cover 
that paid up to 24 monthly benefit payments would benefit them and help them  manage the 
consequences if, in the circumstances the PPI covered,  Mr P were  unable to work  due to 
unemployment. The PPI allowed for multiple  claims to be made and the benefit could help 
reduce Mr and Mrs Ps outgoings at what could be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr P were  
unemployed, making it less likely their home  would be placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs P wouldve still taken the PPI. It was sufficiently close to what its likely they 
thought they were getting and provided benefits  that would help them  manage  the 
consequences if Mr P were made redundant, or unable to work through  accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs P would have 
taken the PPI in any event, notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr P has questioned how a third party can say how he wouldve responded to the facts  had 
they been properly explained.  In my view no one can say with certainty  what Mr P wouldve 
done in a situation that didnt in fact arise. But my findings are what  I think is most likely 
based on the evidence I have. I give considerable weight to what Mr P thinks  he wouldve 
done  which is of course relevant evidence.  But I also take into account all the other 
relevant evidence. My considerations  include the likely extent to which what the PPI was and 
what it cost differed from what Mr and Mrs P thought it was and thought  it cost  as outlined  
and discussed  above.
Mr P has said it wasnt made clear to him that there  may have  been  alternative providers of 
PPI. Hes suggested that if hed been given all the facts, he may just have considered what  
was available  from independent companies  offering  similar protection.  But B&B didnt have 
to tell Mr and Mrs P about policies  it didnt sell and Ive explained  my reasons for concluding 
that, more likely than not, knowing more about  the cost and policy  terms wouldnt have put 
Mr and Mrs P off buying the PPI policy they bought from B&B.
Mr and Mrs Ps representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN87772589That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs P would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs P believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the PPI. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs P in the position they wouldve been in if they 
hadnt bought the PPI. Thats because, while I accept  its possible they wouldnt have taken 
it, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely than not they wouldve still taken the 
PPI if theyd been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude B&B should pay Mr and Mrs P compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should  have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs P think B&B misrepresented the terms of the PPI in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs P, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1987  and 1989 when providing information  about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ps representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs P and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find B&B had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs P in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
Ref: DRN877725810Im grateful  to Mr P for the time he has taken to consider  and provide further points for us in 
response to what weve  sent Mr and Mrs P about this matter.  
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 July 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8777258