K821x#15complaint
In 1998, Mrs B took out a credit account with a high-street retailer.  Alongside the account, 
she also bought  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  She believes that the policy 
was mis-sold to her and has asked for a refund of all the premiums  she paid for it, plus 
interest. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) provided the insurance and has taken  
responsibility for the way the policy was sold. To keep things simple, Ill therefore use the 
term FICL throughout this decision when discussing actions taken by all those involved in 
selling the policy to Mrs B. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this case. The adjudicator found that Mrs B 
worked too few hours each week to be eligible for the primary cover the policy  provided.  So 
the adjudicator  recommended that FICL  should uphold  Mrs Bs complaint. FICL  didnt accept  
the adjudicators  opinion  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the case, so it has come to 
me to consider and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs B has told us that when she bought the policy she worked  for less than 16 hours per 
week. FICL has accepted  that people who only worked for this amount of time would not be 
eligible for the policys main benefits. However, it has not accepted that this applied to Mrs B. 
It thinks she worked for more than 16 hours  per week. It has told us that there is no 
evidence that (Mrs B) was working  fewer than 16 hours per week at the point of sale.
To support FICLs case, it has sent us a copy of the credit agreement which Mrs B signed 
when she applied for the credit account  and bought  the policy. FICL says that the agreement  
shows that Mrs B was employed  full time. It has pointed to a section of the agreement which 
asked customers for details of their employment.  
The first question asked  customers if they or their partner were  in permanent paid 
employment. Mrs B ticked an answer box for yes.
The second  question asked if the employment was full or part time. Mrs B ticked an answer  
box for full time.
The third question asked  customers  to give their employers name and address or that of 
their partner if they had no taxable  income  of their own.  Mrs B gave her partners  name, and 
the address of his employer. 
FICL has argued that the way Mrs B filled out his part of the agreement shows that she was 
employed full time when  she applied for the credit account and bought the PPI policy. I 
disagree. Mrs Bs partner was in full-time  employment at that time and I think that Mrs B was 
answering the questions about  her partner, not herself. I accept that as far as the final 
Ref: DRN81161572question is concerned Mrs B may have had some  taxable income, but given the phrasing  of 
the questions  in this section of the agreement and Mrs Bs circumstances I think  it was 
reasonable for her to fill out the form the way she did. I dont think  the form shows she was 
working full time.
FICL has also pointed out that in the early stage this complaint, Mrs B filled out a 
questionnaire which gave her the choice of describing her status as employed  or working 
fewer than 16 hours per week, and she ticked employed. However the form gave several 
choices and on a later questionnaire, Mrs B said that she worked  fewer  than 16 hours. She 
has also given us details  of her employer in 1998  and has told us several  times  that she 
worked less than 16 hours per week. This is an important  point in this complaint and I have 
considered both points of view, but I have  no reason  to disbelieve Mrs B. I certainly dont  
agree with FICLs view that there is no evidence about this. 
The policy only covered  Mrs B, not her partner, and FICL  had a duty to tell her about the 
policys eligibility rules. Im not satisfied it did this. Had it done  so, I dont think  Mrs B would 
have bought the policy as her short working hours meant that she would not have qualified 
for most of its benefits. There would have been  very little reason for her to buy the policy.
So I think that Mrs B lost out because she wasnt eligible for most  of the insurance cover 
FICL sold her. It should now put things  by paying  her fair compensation.
Ref: DRN81161573putting things right 
FICL should put Mrs B in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. I 
understand that the credit account is now closed and the PPI policy has been  cancelled. 
This means:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs B wouldve owed when she closed her account if 
the PPI policy  hadnt  been added.  
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI, as well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs B owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs B wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If, when FICL works  out what Mrs B would have  owed each  month without PPI, she paid 
more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her account. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs B what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Financial  Insurance  
Company Limited.  It should put things  right by paying her the fair compensation I have 
already described.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8116157