K822xcomplaint
Miss G complains  about issues with Aprite GB Limited, trading as West Way Nissan,  arising 
from a hire purchase agreement under which a car was supplied to her.
background
A used  car was supplied to Miss G under  a hire purchase agreement  with a third party  that 
she signed in September  2015. The dealer and credit intermediary was West Way Nissan. 
Miss G returned the car at the end of the agreement and was charged £1,346.88 for excess  
mileage. She complained to West Way Nissan  and said that shed wanted  the annual  
mileage to be 11,000 miles  but was told that the annual allowance  of 6,000 miles in the 
agreement would be overridden  if she kept the car for three  years. She also said that the 
cars mileage when the car was supplied to her was 29,749 miles (not 26,473 miles  as 
shown on the invoice)  so West Way Nissan reduced the excess  mileage charge to 
£1,084.80. Miss G also says that West Way Nissan had agreed to reimburse  her for £180 of 
the road tax that shed paid for the car. And she complained that shed been told that the car 
would be valeted  before it was supplied to her - but that hadnt happened and the car had 
been driven for more than 3,000  since shed last seen it. 
West Way Nissan said that it was satisfied that the correct process had been  followed and 
that Miss G had agreed to the annual mileage allowance  of 6,000 miles. And it said that its 
records didnt indicate that it had agreed  to refund road tax of £90 each year to Miss G. She 
wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. He said that 
West Way Nissan had estimated that Miss Gs monthly payments wouldve been 
approximately £54 more  each month  if the annual mileage allowance  had been 10,000 or 
11,000 miles (which wouldve been  an extra £1,944 over the three years of the agreement). 
And he said that shed  been charged £1,084.80 for excess mileage  which  was a saving of 
£859.20. And he said that by signing the documentation Miss G had confirmed that the 
information was correct and accurate - including  the annual mileage allowance.
He said that he was satisfied that West Way Nissan had agreed to refund two years road tax 
to Miss G but, due to a change in management, that wasnt done.  So he recommended  that 
it should pay her £180  compensation.  He also said that hed expect a car to be cleaned and 
valeted before being supplied to a customer and that clearly wasnt done before the car was 
supplied to Miss G (and the cars mileage had increased by over 3,000 miles and it couldnt 
provide an explanation for that). So he recommended that it should also pay Miss G £100 for 
the distress this issue had caused her.
West Way Nissan says that it doesn't agree with the adjudicators findings relating to the tax 
refund but to resolve Miss Gs complaint  its willing to pay her £280. But Miss G has asked 
for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in summary, that she was 
taken advantage of and trusted the salesman  when  he told her the paperwork didnt matter 
and that if she kept the car for three years the annual mileage allowance would be 
overridden. She says that she insured  the car on the basis that shed be driving  10,000 miles 
each year and was completely misled by West Way Nissan.
Ref: DRN89595252my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G says that she told West Way Nissan that her annual  mileage would be 11,000 miles. 
And shes provided evidence to show  that she insured the car on the basis  that shed be 
driving 10,000  miles each  year.
But she signed the hire purchase  agreement with the credit provider (not West Way Nissan) 
in September  2015 which says:
Annual Mileage  Allowance 6000  miles.  Excess Mileage Charge £0.08  per mile (inc 
VAT). You must not exceed the Annual Mileage  Allowance. For each mile driven  in 
excess of the Annual Mileage Allowance you will be required to pay the Excess 
Mileage Charge.
And immediately above  her signature  it says:
This is a Hire Purchase Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms.
Miss G also signed a document called customer  written summary which said:  
This is a written summary of an oral explanation  about certain  features of your credit 
agreement which we have  asked the dealer to explain  to you. This is yours to keep 
and you can take it away with you together with the Standard European Consumer 
Credit Information (SECCF). You should  consider this information.  Where you 
have a Personal Contract Purchase when the agreement  ends  (for whatever reason) 
you will be responsible for any excess mileage charges (as set out in the agreement) 
.
So I consider that Miss G knew   or ought  reasonably to have known - that the annual 
mileage allowance  was 6,000 miles. She says that the salesman told her that the mileage 
limit would be overridden  if she kept the car for three years.  But the credit agreement was 
with the credit provider  (and not with West Way Nissan) and shes  not been able to provide 
any other evidence  to show it had been  agreed that the provisions in the agreement  about 
excess mileage charges wouldnt apply to her. 
The credit provider has charged Miss G for excess mileage charges in accordance with the 
terms of the agreement that she signed. That charge has been reduced  from £1,346.88 to 
£1,084.80 to take account of the difference in the cars mileage shown on the invoice and 
the mileage when it was supplied  to Miss G.
West Way Nissan has also estimated that the monthly payment for the car on the basis  of 
10,000 or 11,000 annual  miles would  be about  £54 more than the payments made by Miss G 
(which is £1,944 more  over the three years of the agreement  and £859.20 more than shes 
been charged for the excess mileage). Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to 
show that West Way Nissan has acted  incorrectly in connection with the annual mileage 
allowance. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to arrange for 
the excess mileage charge to be waived (or reduced)  or to take any other action in 
response to Miss Gs complaint about  it.
Ref: DRN89595253The adjudicator recommended that West Way Nissan should pay £180 to Miss G to 
reimburse her because of the agreement that had been made about the cars road tax and 
that it should pay her £100 to compensate her for the issues  with the car when it was 
supplied to her. West Way Nissan has agreed  to pay £280  to resolve Miss Gs complaint. Im 
not persuaded that the issues  with the car when it was supplied  to her justify  compensation 
of more than the £100 that was recommended  by the adjudicator and which  West Way 
Nissan has agreed to pay her. And the payment of £180 relating to the road tax puts her in 
the position that she says was agreed with West Way Nissan. And it has agreed  to make 
that payment  to her. 
So I find that West Way Nissan  should  pay to Miss G the £280 compensation that its agreed 
to pay her. But I dont  consider that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for 
me to require it to take any other  action in response to Miss Gs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Miss Gs complaint in part. And I order Aprite 
GB Limited,  trading as West  Way Nissan, to pay compensation  of £280 to Miss G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8959525