K822xcomplaint
Ms C is complaining about  The On-Line  Partnership  Limited (TOPL) because  one of its 
advisers made a series  of errors in setting up her life insurance cover. She says that 
because of this, she went elsewhere for her cover  and is now paying more than she would 
have done if things had been done  correctly in the first place.
background
Ms Cs mortgage started in February 2014. She borrowed £106,800 for a term of 25 years  
and the loan was set up on a repayment basis.
Before the mortgage was finalised, Ms C discussed  arranging life insurance  cover with 
TOPLs adviser at the end of 2013.  In November 2013, a level term insurance policy was put 
in place (application 1). It was with AIG and provided cover of £110,000 for a term of 25 
years.
This policy was cancelled immediately because the mortgage hadnt begun. The application 
was resubmitted  to AIG a couple of months later (application 2) and a new policy  started at 
the end of January 2014. This also provided  cover  for a term of 25 years for a monthly 
premium of £23.64.  Unfortunately, it was set up with cover of £100,000, not the £110,000 
requested in the original application.
Nobody noticed this error  until 2016. When it was identified, another application  was 
submitted to AIG (application 3). Unfortunately, that only requested a policy until 2030  
several years before the mortgage was due to end. This policy  was cancelled immediately.
Then in 2017,  a final application was submitted to AIG (application 4). This was for £110,000 
with a term to coincide  with the mortgage  end date. While  the monthly premium started at a 
lower amount of £18.42, it was set to increase during the term. This policy  was cancelled  
shortly after it was put in place.
Instead, Ms C went elsewhere and arranged a different policy  with Aviva. That started  in 
August 2018 and provides  level cover  of £110,000 for a term of 21 years at a monthly 
premium of £36.87.  Aviva  has told us the policy was accepted  on standard terms.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Ms C didnt accept my provisional  decision and made the following key points:
At her initial meeting with the adviser in 2013,  she made it clear she only wanted her 
income protection policy to start immediately because  her mortgage application 
hadnt yet completed. The adviser  made an error  by arranging  for the policy 
(application 1) to start straight away (mistake 1).
Application 2 was submitted to AIG when the mortgage started. The mortgage  was 
for £106,800 but she agreed a policy with the adviser with £110,000 of cover  for a 
level premium of £23.64 to the end of the mortgage term in 2038. In 2016, it came  to 
light that the adviser had incorrectly asked for a policy with £100,000  of cover 
(mistake 2).
Ref: DRN86491442While  discussing  this with AIG, it was discovered  that the adviser had also given AIG 
the wrong date of birth (mistake 3). When she asked  about  rectifying  this, she was 
told the only way to do that was to cancel the policy and take a new one. She didnt 
cancel the policy,  this was done by the adviser.
Another application (application 3) was made  and the mortgage end date was 
incorrectly entered as 2030  eight years  before  her mortgage  was due to finish  
(mistake 4). 
When she pointed out this error to the adviser,  he again said shed need to take a 
new policy. The adviser provided  two quotations,  one with a level premium of around 
£25, the other for an increasing premium starting  at £18.42. She said she preferred a 
policy with a level premium, but instead the one with the increasing premium was put 
in place (mistake  5). Even worse, a medical questionnaire was completed  without 
discussing it with her and this included inaccurate  information. This is a serious issue  
that I didnt address  in my provisional decision.
After all these mistakes, she lost confidence  in the adviser  and took out a policy with 
Aviva instead. In the circumstances,  she thinks it was unfair for me to say it was her 
choice to arrange cover elsewhere.
My statement  that she didnt pay for cover between the start of application  2 in 2016  
and the start of her Aviva policy in 2018 isnt correct.  She paid premiums  to AIG until 
March 2018.
I also said the premium for the policy that started in 2014  (application  2) would have 
been higher than £23.64 if her cover had been  set at £110,000.  This is wrong.  She 
has an application for £110,000 cover with a premium  of £23.63 and another dated 
2016 for a monthly premium of £22.05.
She had a dual purpose for the policy, which is why she applied for more cover than 
the amount of her mortgage. She wanted  a policy to repay the mortgage  if she died 
with a balance  for her children to pay for her funeral. But for the advisers mistakes, 
she would have  had the policy she chose and for the correct cost in 2014.
The adviser continued to receive commission each  time he replaced her policies at 
her expense. Shes sure this will amount to more than the £200 shes now being 
offered as compensation. She also thinks its possible some  of the policies could  
have been amended  rather  than being  cancelled.
She accepts her Aviva policy  includes an additional cost for global treatment, but this 
doesnt change  the fact that she wouldnt have had to take this policy at all if the 
adviser hadnt made the errors he did.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Ms Cs response to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent changed.
Ref: DRN86491443A lot of the information provided in this complaint has been  contradictory and that led me to 
believe Ms C stopped paying for cover with AIG much earlier than she actually did. AIG has 
since confirmed she paid premiums until early 2018  and I apologise for my error on this 
point. I also thank Ms C for clarifying the purpose of the policy was to provide protection  over 
and above the amount needed to repay  her mortgage. This wasnt  clear from the 
submissions made previously.
As Ive said before, theres no doubt  the adviser made a series of errors in arranging  Ms Cs 
cover. And that some of these, particularly providing  inaccurate medical information, could 
potentially have had very serious consequences. Some of these mistakes,  including  
amending her date of birth,  were simple to amend by changing the existing policy.  Others,  
including selecting  the wrong amount of cover and the wrong  term, required a new policy to 
be arranged.
As I explained previously, however, the ombudsman service  isnt the industry  regulator  and I 
have no power to fine or punish the adviser or TOPL for those  errors.  The primary aim of any 
award I make must be to restore Ms C to the correct position if I think  those errors  led to her 
being disadvantaged. 
Ms C has provided a quotation  dated November 2013, showing cover of £110,000 for 25 
years would have  cost £22.88 per month. But shes also told us she didnt want cover to start 
at that time. AIG has told us that by the time Ms Cs cover did start in 2014, and if her date of 
birth had been correctly  recorded, the same  cover would have cost £25.70  per month.  So 
this is the amount she would have paid if the adviser had set up her cover as she wanted it 
in the first place. Actually, she paid slightly less than this because her policy  was set up with 
a lower amount  of cover.
Ms C has also told us that when the adviser set up her increasing policy (application  4), 
which had the correct amount of cover and term, he also offered a level premium policy 
costing £25 per month. I note she says the adviser made another error by setting up the 
increasing policy, but it does seem  she could have had the cover she wanted  for £25 per 
month. This is the same  amount as she would have  been paying if it had been set up 
correctly in 2014.
Its with this in mind that I dont believe the advisers  errors particularly led to Ms C being  
disadvantaged. I understand  why she lost patience with the adviser, but it seems she did 
know cover  with AIG was available at a cost of £25 per month. If she didnt want to arrange it 
with the same adviser, she could have approached AIG directly or maybe appointed another  
adviser to arrange  her cover instead.  If she had done, Ive no reason to think she wouldnt 
have been able to obtain similar terms.
Instead, Ms C made her own arrangements and chose to take a different  policy  with Aviva. 
Its clearly unfortunate  that policy is more expensive, but it was ultimately her decision  to 
take it rather than pursue  the cheaper option  available from AIG. 
I note Ms Cs comments about the advisers commission for setting up her various policies, 
but its normally the case that commission  is reclaimed by an insurer if a policy is cancelled 
in the very early  stages. In this case, AIG has confirmed  the adviser received full 
commission on the policy she paid into for a period of time. But of the commission paid in 
respect of Ms Cs other applications,  its confirmed that all but £29 was reclaimed. This 
shows the adviser didnt  actually  benefit from his mistakes to the extent she thinks.
Ref: DRN86491444I understand my decision will come as a disappointment for Ms C and isnt what she was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, it appears she could still have got the 
cover she wanted at the correct cost even after the advisers errors. Its for this reason I dont  
think the evidence  shows shes  worse off solely because of those mistakes. That said,  I think 
compensation is due for the trouble and upset she was caused and that the amount of £200 
is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Ms C accepts  my decision, The On-Line Partnership Limited  must pay her compensation 
of £200 for her trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN86491445extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
I can see Ms C is now paying  a higher premium for the cover she has than she would  be if a level 
policy for £110,000 had been  put in place when  her mortgage  started. But at the same time, she 
wouldnt be paying as much currently if shed instead opted to proceed with application  4 in 2017. 
That said, I understand why she was no longer willing to deal with TOPLs adviser and felt she wanted 
to arrange her cover  elsewhere.
Ms C has calculated  shes paying an extra £15 each month for her cover,  which will equate to around 
£3,600 over the whole term of her mortgage.  But I dont think that figure  is correct for the following 
reasons:
From what I can see, she didnt  pay for cover between  the cancellation  of her AIG policy  
(application 2) in 2016 and the start of her new Aviva  policy in 2018. She would  have paid 
premiums during that period if the AIG policy had been  set up with an extra £10,000 of cover.
The AIG policy (application 2) cost £23.64 per month. If it had been set up with an extra 
£10,000 of cover, the premium would have been higher. The difference  between  that and the 
£36.87 shes currently paying is less than £15.
The policy  document shes provided  shows  her Aviva policy includes global treatment that 
wasnt included in the AIG policy. I understand this is an optional benefit that costs £4 each 
month. So the cost of the life cover she now has is actually £32.87 per month.  This is the 
figure that should be used to compare  the cost of the policies.
This notwithstanding, its clear the adviser made errors. Im pleased to see TOPL accepted this and 
apologised, but I take Ms Cs point that this could  have resulted  in there not being enough cover to 
repay her mortgage if shed  passed away. Fortunately that didnt happen.
Its important to understand the ombudsman  service isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont 
set the rules for financial  businesses to follow  and we dont police  the industry to make sure those 
rules are followed.  I dont have the power to fine or punish a business for making a mistake. Instead, 
where I identify a business has made an error, any award I make is primarily designed to put the 
consumer back into the position he/she would otherwise have been in but for the error. This means I 
do see complaints where mistakes have been made, but I dont  make an award  because the 
consumer hasnt  been  disadvantaged.
Ive thought very carefully about the consequences of the advisers actions for Ms C. If shed died 
shortly after the mortgage started,  her £100,000 policy  (application 2) would  have meant there was a 
small shortfall in her cover. But the information shes recently  provided shows she took out and 
appears to still have  a repayment mortgage. That means the amount  she owes is reducing each 
month as she makes regular payments. Her mortgage  statements show the outstanding  balance  had 
reduced to less than £100,000 by the time the error in application  2 was identified in 2016.
I understand it would have been  disappointing  for Ms C to discover she didnt have as much  cover as 
she thought she had. But by the time she realised  this, her AIG policy did actually provide enough  
cover to repay the mortgage and provide a surplus, the size of which would have continued to grow  
as the mortgage balance reduced.  So if the aim of taking the policy  was to make sure she had 
enough cover to repay the mortgage on her death,  which seems  to have been the case, this situation 
was actually achieved quite quickly after the mortgage started, even allowing for the mistake in 
application 2.
On balance, I dont think its clear the error in application  2 ultimately resulted in Ms C being  
particularly disadvantaged as it was providing enough cover to repay  her mortgage by the time it was 
Ref: DRN86491446cancelled. On the basis that she doesnt appear to have paid any premiums  as a result of applications 
1, 3 and 4, I havent seen that any errors in those led to her being  disadvantaged either.
I can see that the problems Ms C had with her adviser have caused her unnecessary trouble  and 
upset and I think  compensation is due for that. The impact this has had on her, and therefore the 
amount to award is difficult to assess. But taking everything into account, I think  the amount of £200 
TOPL agreed to pay after receiving the adjudicators assessment is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently think  The On-Line  
Partnership Limited should pay Ms C compensation of £200.
Ref: DRN8649144