K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Provident Personal Credit  Limited (trading as Satsuma) has treated him 
unfairly in the way it adds interest when  calculating loan balances following a full or partial 
early settlement payment.
background
Mr R took six loans  from Satsuma between May 2016 and May 2017. He separately 
complained that he shouldnt  have  been  given these  loans at all. In response to that 
complaint Satsuma agreed that it shouldnt have  given Mr R the last two loans and paid him 
some compensation. And one of our adjudicators, having looked  at the complaint, said that it 
hadnt been wrong for Satsuma to give Mr R the first four loans.
Satsuma has refunded all the interest  and charges that Mr R paid on the last two loans in 
response to his complaint about  irresponsible lending. So I dont think  he has lost out on 
those two loans  in relation to this complaint. And the interest that he says shouldnt  have  
been charged on his early  repayments of those  loans would have been refunded anyway.
Each of the loans  that Mr R was given was repayable in 52 weekly  instalments. But he 
repaid each of his loans far earlier than that. And so he was affected by Satsumas approach 
to calculating early  settlement rebates.
The repayments on the loans Satsuma provided were based  on an amortisation schedule 
where each instalment was made  up of some of the interest and charges and some of the 
capital advanced.  Since these were  high-cost credit products the higher interest rate meant 
that only a small proportion of the instalment went towards repaying  the capital in the early  
stages of a loan.
The Consumer Credit  (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 set out how a lender can 
calculate the maximum amount permitted for a  settlement figure   on a regulated credit 
agreement - in the event  that a consumer  says that they want to pay off a loan early. It 
essentially sets out a formula that lenders may use, which  is based  on the outstanding 
capital and the remaining loan term. Typically, a firm is entitled to add between  28 to 56 days  
interest to the outstanding capital balance. 
When Mr R repaid his loans early Satsuma  calculated a settlement  figure  using this formula  
which meant he was required to pay an additional  28 days  interest relating to his borrowing. 
And he was told that the same additional  interest  payment  would apply if he made  a partial 
early repayment too. He didnt think that was fair, and he said it wasnt  the way he has been 
treated by other  lenders.  So he complained to Satsuma. The lender didnt agree with his 
complaint  it considered that its actions  were reasonable and in line with the regulations.
Mr Rs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He agreed with Satsuma 
that its actions had been in line with the relevant regulations.  And although he thought that 
Satsuma could have  given Mr R a better explanation  of its terms and conditions he didnt  
think that Mr R had lost out as a result of the lack of information. So he didnt think this 
complaint should  be upheld.
Mr R didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
Ref: DRN81808532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
So looking  specifically at this complaint  I think the first thing I need  to establish is whether 
Satsuma has acted  reasonably, and in line with the relevant regulations  when setting its 
terms and conditions around early repayment  whether in full or part. I would then need to 
think about whether  Satsuma adequately  communicated  those terms to Mr R before he 
decided to take the loans.  And finally, if I dont  think Satsuma  provided enough information, 
Id need to decide whether that lack of information caused detriment to Mr R  or in other 
words if hed have acted differently if hed been given better information before taking the 
loans.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr R and by Satsuma. Where the evidence  is unclear, or there are conflicts,  I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
As I noted  earlier, the regulations that apply to early  repayments of the nature being 
complained about here are The Consumer Credit  (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. Ive 
looked carefully at the way in which Satsuma  has calculated the amounts that are due from 
Mr R when he repaid  his loans early  and have concluded that these have been calculated in 
accordance with the regulations.
The regulations set out a formula for working out the maximum  amount  a lender is able to 
charge in the event that a consumer wishes to settle  a regulated agreement early. But in 
addition to the regulations  I need  to look at whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of a case  and not just what the terms and conditions  state.  It could be argued 
for example that the higher the interest  rate is the less likely I would be to conclude that a 
lender should  charge the maximum amount the regulations allow.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr R borrowed from Satsuma. 
Its regulations for lenders  are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook  (generally  referred  to 
as CONC). CONC 4.2.5R requires a lender to provide an adequate explanation in order  to 
place the consumer in a position to assess whether the agreement  is right for their needs  
and financial  situation. Matters to take into account  include  the features of the agreement  
which may make it unsuitable for particular type of use and the features of the agreement  
which would have a significant adverse effect on the customer  in a way which  theyre 
unlikely to foresee.  And CONC 4.2.7G also lists factors a lender should  take into account 
when deciding the level and extent of an explanation. These factors  include the type of 
credit, the amount  and duration,  and the actual  and potential  costs.
Ref: DRN81808533In each of the agreements  that Mr R electronically  signed before taking the loans was a 
section regarding early  repayment. That section said;
You have the right at any time to make  early repayment in full or in part. To do so you 
should first give us notice.  The payment should  be made before the end of the period of 28 
days, beginning with the day following the day that we receive  your notice, or on or before 
any later date specified in your notice
But that section  doesnt provide Mr R with any indication of how the settlement figure will be 
arrived at. And in these  circumstances  I dont think the statement above met the lenders 
obligations in relation  to providing a pre-contractual  adequate explanation thats clear, fair 
and not misleading.  But that, in itself, doesnt mean  that the complaint should  be upheld.  
I also need to decide whether Mr R would have acted any differently if hed been  given  better 
information.
Satsuma has provided us with a recording  of a telephone call between Mr R and Satsuma 
around the time he was looking to repay his final loan. Having listened to that call it is clear  
to me that Mr R already had a good  understanding, gained from his previous borrowing with 
Satsuma, about  how it would treat the early  repayment of its loans. It is apparent  that Mr R 
doesnt agree with the approach that Satsuma  has applied  in the past.  But it seems to me 
that hasnt stopped him taking these  loans from Satsuma.
I dont know exactly when  Mr R became aware of how Satsuma treated the early repayment 
of its loans. But I am persuaded that he became  aware of the process well before he took his 
final loan  by that time hed repaid five other loans far earlier than the date hed agreed 
when he took the loan out. So it seems to me that even  when  Mr R was aware that he would 
need to pay some additional  interest on repaying  the loan early,  this didnt stop him from 
asking Satsuma for a new loan.
Given that Mr R was so upset by the terms and conditions Satsuma applied to early 
repayment I have  thought  about why he continued  to borrow from this lender. It might have 
been because  this lender  was one of only a few lenders that would agree to lend to him. It 
might have been because, at the time he took the loan out, he had no intention of repaying 
the loan early. Or it might have been that he found  the way in which Satsuma structured the 
loans, allowing him to make weekly repayments  over an extended period, was attractive. But 
taking all that into account means I cant fairly  say that Mr R wouldnt have taken  any of the 
loans if hed been aware of the way Satsuma treated early  repayment.
So in summary,  I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Satsuma complied with the 
relevant regulations when calculating the additional  interest that would need to be paid if the 
loan was settled  early. I dont think the information that Mr R was given,  before  he took the 
loans, about the calculation of the interest was sufficient. But I think  Mr R would still have 
borrowed from Satsuma even if hed been given more details about the terms and 
conditions.
Ref: DRN81808534my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8180853