K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the refurbishment charges Volkswagen Financial  Services  (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) applied when he terminated a hire purchase agreement for a car 
and handed it back.
background
In June 2017 Mr S entered into a five-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS  for a 
used car. The car was four years old and had a mileage  of just under 50,000.
In January 2019 Mr S decided  to terminate the hire purchase agreement  and handed the 
car back to VWFS. Arrangements were made for the car to be collected  and inspected by a 
third-party company  on behalf of VWFS.
Mr S received an invoice  for £1130 from VWFS  for damage found on the car. He 
complained to VWFS who reviewed  the charges and agreed to reduce  the invoice by £239.
Mr S was unhappy at VWFSs decision and complained to this service.  He said that he still 
disputed that some of the damage found on the car had been  due to his use. In particular, 
he said that the damage recorded to the cars  interior had been present when hed 
acquired it.
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint. She said looking at the condition report  
and photographs of the car she was satisfied that some of the damage  was due to fair 
wear and tear or had been present when Mr S had acquired it.
Our investigator said shed seen  that VWFS  had applied  the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA) guidelines  to the condition of the car. These guidelines set 
the industry standard for what is and isnt considered  fair wear and tear and when it was 
fair to charge for damage when a car was returned at the end of a financial agreement.
However, our investigator said that the BVRLA guidelines were actually designed to deal 
with a new car being handed back at the end of a first financial agreement and not a car 
that was already used. Here, the car, when  returned, had been  just under six years old and 
had a mileage  of 77,000 and so it was reasonable to expect it to have incurred more wear  
and tear due to use than a newer one.
Our investigator said she didnt have  any evidence about the condition  of the car at the 
point of sale to Mr S. And looking at the photos that had been provided she had been 
unable to see the damage reported  on the front bumper or on the cars wing. She agreed, 
however, there had been damage to the rear bumper  and there was a scratch  to the rear 
panel which were  payable by Mr S.
Our investigator said that the charges for the scratches to two of the cars doors should 
be treated as fair wear and tear and these  should be waived by VWFS.
Our investigator said that she accepted  Mr Ss testimony that the interior  of the car had 
already been damaged when hed acquired it. She also said she didnt think  VWFS  had 
provided enough evidence about  how it had calculated  the repair costs for the two items  
found damaged  during the inspection. Our investigator  said shed seen that the price  
matrix had stated that some of the charges were based on approved retailer pricing, but 
Ref: DRN87622952no calculations had been provided.  She said these charges  should  also be waived.
Mr S agreed with our investigators view but VWFS  disagreed. It has now provided 
the health check report for the car before it was sold to Mr S.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Our investigator hadnt seen any evidence about  the condition  of the car at its point  of sale 
to Mr S, but this had now been provided by VWFS. This health check  noted that the 
aluminium door trim inside the car was badly scratched but there was no report  that the 
door pad had any damage, or that there was damage to the body of the car. Id also seen 
that in addition to this health check the dealership confirmed that a slight  scuff and small 
dent on the car were  repaired  prior to its sale to Mr S.
Mr S said that the car may have had some scratches on its bodywork  when  he returned 
it, but he disputed  the damage  to the interior of the car was due to him. He said this had 
been present  at the time he acquired  the car. Where  evidence is contradictory or missing  
then I must decide what I think  is the most likely  thing to have happened.
VWFS said that the BVRLA guidelines were  applied to the damage found  on the car and, 
while I agreed that these  set the industry standard as to what  was and wasnt considered  
fair wear and tear, I thought it was reasonable to not apply these as strictly as when a car 
has already been  used  prior to the financial agreement. The older the car was and the 
greater the mileage the more likely  it was to have suffered  wear  and tear to its bodywork, 
and I thought it was fair for this be taken into account when assessing whether 
refurbishment charges  were fair.
Looking at the damage that Mr S had been  charged  for; I agree with our investigator that on 
looking at the photos of the front bumper and right-hand front wing that these didnt show  
any obvious damage. So, I was satisfied that the refurbishment charges for those two items 
should be deducted from the invoice.  
However, looking at the photo of the rear bumper, I could see that there  was a clear chip on 
the bumper which I thought wouldnt reasonably be considered as fair wear and tear. Mr S 
hadnt suggested this was present when hed acquired the car and it wasnt included  in the 
pre-sale vehicle health check. I thought it was more  likely than not this damage  had 
occurred when the car was in the possession of Mr S and so I thought it was fair he was 
invoiced for that damage.
I accepted that the photo of the left-hand rear door shows  a scratch, but I didnt think  I 
could reasonably say this was a deep  scratch  that goes through the paint.  I thought this 
scratch should be considered as fair wear and tear for a car of this age and mileage  and 
so it should be deducted from the refurbishment invoice.
The next photo in the vehicle condition report was of the scratching to the right-hand  front 
interior door aluminium trim. I think this damage  was present at the time Mr S acquired 
the car as it was noted in the vehicles health check carried out by the dealership. VWFS  
had also agreed  this wasnt caused by Mr S. Therefore, this refurbishment  charge should 
be deducted from the invoice.
I thought the photo of the passenger side door pad clearly shows  several cuts. Id seen 
Ref: DRN87622953that the door pad wasnt raised  in the cars health check  unlike the aluminium trim. I 
thought if this damage had been  present at the time Mr S had acquired  the car then,  as it 
was obvious, it would  have been  included in the checklist  of damage.  So, I think it was 
more likely than not that the damage occurred  while  the car was in Mr Ss possession 
and that this damage was chargeable.
Looking at the photo of the right-hand front door I could clearly  see three scratches, one of 
which appeared deeper than the others and I was satisfied it was over 25mm in length, and 
I thought it was beyond what I would expect  as fair wear  and tear. So, I thought  VWFS 
acted fairly  in charging for this damage.
I also thought  the scratch  shown on the cars  quarter  panel was through the paint and over 
25mm and so it was fair that Mr S paid for this item of damage.
VWFS said that the refurbishment charges were based on historic  repair  costs, with an 
additional discount applied in order for the charges to take account  of the affect the damage  
would have on the residual value of the vehicle, rather  than being a revenue stream. 
Looking at the charges imposed for the following items that I have  considered payable by 
Mr S I thought these  amounts were  fair:
Rear bumper chip - £110.40
Right-hand front door scratches - £110.40
Quarter panel scratch - £110.40
However, I didnt think the refurbishment cost of £408 was fair and reasonable for the 
damage to the passenger side door pad as didnt accept this would  reflect the impact such 
damage would have on the cars residual value.  VWFS also hadnt provided me with any 
details as to the cost of replacing  a door pad. I thought a refurbishment cost of £110.40 
would also be fair for this item. 
So, I intended to partially uphold Mr Ss complaint by asking VWFS to remove the following 
items from the refurbishment invoice:
Front bumper
Right-hand front wing
Left-hand rear door
Interior aluminium trim
In addition, I asked  VWFS to reduce the cost of the door pad to £110.40. This would leave 
an invoice totaling  £441.60 to pay.
Mr S has agreed with my provisional view but VWFS  disagrees. It says that the damage 
was beyond fair wear  and tear and the bumper had been poorly repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. I have set out above  what damage that was found  on the car I 
considered was chargeable to Mr S as being outside wear and tear. I have also explained 
Ref: DRN87622954my view as to the charge raised by VWFS for the cuts to the passenger  side door pad. And 
although VWFS has disagreed with my provisional view it hasnt provided me with any new 
evidence or set out reasons why it thinks my view or approach  was wrong.
I have  reviewed  the evidence provided  as to the damage found when Mr S handed the car 
back. I accept there was damage  found both internally  and externally but for the reasons 
given I dont think it was fair and reasonable for Mr S to pay the full amount  in the invoice 
sent to him by VWFS. Im satisfied that my provisional view explained  why I thought some 
items were chargeable and others  not. For instance, in respect of the front bumper I 
disagreed there was evidence of a past poor repair but agreed there  was a clear chip to the 
rear bumper which will need repair and which Mr S should be charged.
VWFS hasnt said whether it disagrees  or not with my approach to the charge  for the 
damage found  to the passenger side door pad. It hasnt argued that this charge was fair nor 
provided me with further  information as to how this figure was reached.  So, although  I accept 
that damage was present,  and Mr S is liable for a refurbishment cost I still think  that it is fair 
for VWFS to charge him £110.40 for that. I still dont accept that the impact on the cars 
residual value would have been over £400.
So, for the reasons given Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above Im partially  upholding Mr Ss complaint.  I am asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to do the following:
Remove the charges for the front bumper, right-hand front wing, left-hand  rear 
door and interior  aluminium trim from the refurbishment invoice
Reduce the charge for the passenger door paid to £110.40
This will leave an invoice  totaling £441.60  to pay being made up of the following:
.
Rear bumper chip - £110.40
Right-hand front door scratches - £110.40
Quarter panel scratch - £110.40
Passenger side door pad - £110.40
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask [insert anonymised  
name here] to accept  or reject my decision before 22 August 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8762295