K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained about Scottish  Equitable  Plc (Aegon). He is unhappy with the time 
taken to move two of his pension polices to Aegons  ARC platform. He wants them to pay 
compensation for the time his pensions were  out of the market and not invested.
background
Mr Js financial  advisers recommended he move his two plans  to the Aegon Retirement 
Choices (ARC) SIPP from another  part of Aegons business. There  were two plans to be 
transferred and he requested that both were moved  at the same time.
Aegon started the process for both plans on 28 June 2017  with the claim work completed for 
one plan on 11 July 2017. The funds cleared into the ARC wrapper on 18 July 2017.
The funds from the second plan arrived later. Aegon said the processing for this plan was 
delayed due to high workloads. As a result,  the funds did not clear until 24 July 2017.
Aegon has said that its internal standard  for transactions like this provide for ten working 
days for processing and a further three to five working days  for funds to clear. So Aegon 
says that it met these  standards  for the first plan but accepted it didnt  for the second.
Aegon paid £147.36  compensation into Mr Js ARC  wrapper after calculating this was what  
the delay had cost him in relation to the second plan. They  also paid £75 into his bank  
account as an apology for their mistake. 
Mr J wasnt happy with this response. He felt that both plans had taken too long to transfer.  
He felt Aegon should have moved both plans by 10 July 2017. Aegon  disagreed,  and so the 
complaint was brought to this service. 
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and concluded that Aegons response was fair. 
Although they were  not able to produce written  confirmation of their service  level agreements 
(SLA), they were not unreasonable.
It was the adjudicators view that the having  rigid timescales wasnt a requirement as long as 
the transfers were  completed in a reasonable timescale.  The adjudicator explained  that there 
werent any hard and fast rules about times taken to transfer a pension,  it depended on the 
individual nature of the transfer.  And as it was deemed reasonable for an ISA transfer, 
generally a much simpler process, to be completed within  30 days the time taken to transfer  
Mr Js pensions wasnt unreasonable.
Mr J disagreed with this view and produced a report by the DWP  which suggested a typical 
target time for transfers on a platform like this one was twelve calendar  days.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same  conclusion as the adjudicator. I think Aegons  offer is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances and so I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN84183172Mr J doesnt think Aegons  standards or processes  were quick enough. Ive considered this 
point along with the evidence from the DWP  report. That report  suggests a target  time for 
transfers like these  of 12 calendar days.  Aegons own standards mean that a transfer  could 
take up to 21 calendar days and still be considered to have been dealt with in a reasonable 
time. So there is quite  a disparity. But the DWP report doesnt suggest  any minimum 
standard. And, so far as I am aware, there is no industry wide standard that must be 
observed.
Also, there is no evidence  that Aegon suggested that the transfers  would be completed more 
quickly than in line with its own internal  standards.  Mr J was not misled  about that.
I can appreciate Mr Js concerns. He was moving  substantial amounts of money and 
understandably wished to minimise the time these  funds  were out of the marked.  It was 
inevitable that the funds  would be out of the market for some time. Thats a consequence of 
the transfer itself.  Overall,  I dont think the standards  Aegon has set are wholly 
unreasonable. Other businesses may have different standards or complete these 
transactions more  quickly (or more  slowly), but that doesnt necessarily mean that Aegon are 
acting unreasonably in applying the standards they do.
So I dont  uphold this complaint. I dont  think Aegon has acted unfairly  or unreasonably  in its 
handling of this complaint. Im satisfied that its offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8418317