K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about the fees charged  by Saxo Capital Markets  UK Limited (SCML) on her 
sharedealing account. She says that SCML told her these fees wouldnt be charged.
background
Ms Ms account was set up in February 2014  via a broker.  The account  was set up so Ms M 
could buy and hold some specific shares.
In April 2014, SCML  told Ms M that their agreement  with the broker  had come  to an end. So 
the broker would no longer manage her account.  SCML told her that she could keep the 
account or transfer her shares elsewhere.  If she wanted to keep  it, she needed to appoint a 
new broker or become  a direct client and manage  the account  herself.   
SCML told Ms M that they charged an inactivity fee of €25.00 per quarter to their direct 
clients. But SCML said that this charge would only be taken from the available cash  on 
Ms Ms account, and wouldnt take her account into overdraft.  SCML did mention, however,  
that this charging  policy was due to change later in the year.
Ms M decided to be a direct client. She was told to expect the residual cash  balance on her 
account (€15) to be debited towards the first inactivity fee, but that nothing more  would be 
charged after this. An inactivity fee was duly debited  in July 2014, taking Ms Ms cash  
balance to nil. 
In December 2014, SCML emailed Ms M to say they would be changing their charging  
policy. The changes included bringing in a new fee called a custody fee. This fee came into 
force on 1 January 2015. Although the email didnt mention  this explicitly, this fee could 
cause a negative  balance, unlike the inactivity fee. 
SCML started to charge this new fee to Ms Ms account from February 2015. An overdraft 
therefore began to build up. SCML also charged interest  on the overdraft.  
In March 2018, SCML contacted Ms M and asked her to make a payment in to her account 
to cover the shortfall.  They told her that if she didnt do this, after eight days they might  sell 
some of her shares to cover it. 
Ms M complained, but SCML didnt  uphold her complaint. Shortly  afterwards,  SCML  sold 
some of Ms Ms shares to repay the overdraft.  
Ref: DRN87382762Ms M referred  her complaint  to our service. I issued a provisional decision on 3 July 2019. In 
summary, I said:
When SCMLs  contract with Ms Ms broker ended shortly  after she bought  her 
shares, SCML explained the options to Ms M by email  and in a phone  call. I think 
they did this in a fair and clear way. And I think Ms M understood what  would happen 
 that is, that the residual cash in her account would be used to pay part of one 
inactivity fee and then she wouldnt pay any more, as long as she didnt put in any 
more cash. 
In December 2014, SCML sent Ms M two emails about fees. SCML provided  
evidence that Ms M received and opened  both these emails.  
The introduction  of a custody fee was highly relevant to Ms M. It meant she would 
now have to pay just to hold her shares  which might alter whether  it was worth her 
holding on to them at all. 
Ms M is SCMLs customer  and they have some  duties towards her. One of these is to 
treat her fairly. Another is to communicate with her in a way that is fair, clear  and not 
misleading. 
I wasnt satisfied that, given Ms Ms circumstances,  SCML treated her fairly. I thought 
that SCML needed  to make it a lot clearer to Ms M that the custody fee would be 
debited regardless of whether it created a negative balance.  And that shares  would 
ultimately be sold to cover the fees, if no cash was available.  
SCML also didnt  contact Ms M about  the increasing negative balance for some 
years. SCML said that prior to 2018, the regulator didnt require them  to do this. And 
they also said Ms M never contacted them  and that she should  have checked her 
online account during this time. But I didnt think this was fair in Ms Ms 
circumstances. I said this because  Ms M had always intended to keep the shares for 
a while.  So she had no reason  to check her online account  during this time.
To put things right, I thought SCML should:
 Replace Ms Ms shares, so her shareholding is restored  back  to the original 
number of shares
 Restore her account  to a nil cash balance (if it isnt currently  at nil)
 Permit Ms M to transfer  her shares  elsewhere, if she chose to do so, without 
incurring any fees.  
 Pay Ms M the equivalent in Euros of £100  for the trouble and upset theyve 
caused.
SCML made  no further comments, except to confirm  that they had continued charging the 
custody fee each month. 
Ms M disagreed with my provisional  decision. She didnt  think  the £100 compensation fairly 
reflected the overall distress and inconvenience shed experienced. She also felt the 
decision should have  covered SCML  not buying  the number of shares  shed originally 
requested in the first place. 
Ref: DRN87382763my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part. 
First, Im aware  that part of Ms Ms original complaint  was about the number of shares 
originally bought. She said that shed requested €5,000 of shares, but had ended  up with 
fewer and €14 left in cash. This may just reflect movement in the share price. But in any 
case, as I said in my provisional decision,  I consider this part of the complaint to be about  
Ms Ms original broker and not SCML. Ms M didnt give SCML an order  to buy a certain  
number of shares, she agreed  the transaction with her broker. Ive seen no evidence that 
SCML failed to follow the instructions given. So I dont think SCML did anything wrong. And I 
cant comment on the actions of the broker here, as they arent  party to this complaint.  
Neither side has provided any new evidence or arguments about the main part of the 
complaint, the custody  fees. So I see no reason to change my provisional view on these.  
Given Ms Ms circumstances, I think SCML had a duty to treat her fairly by making  its 
communications about the new fees very clear.  SCML  didnt  draw  attention  to  or mention 
at all  the fact that this new fee could  create  an overdraft. And that shares  would be sold 
and interest charged  if this overdraft wasnt cleared. 
Ms M had always intended to keep the shares  for a while. So it was foreseeable that she 
wouldnt check her online statements, or pay particularly  close  attention to emails from 
SCML. I dont think it was fair of SCML to keep debiting the fee until 2018, allowing an 
overdraft to build up, then give Ms M a week before they sold her shares to cover the 
overdraft. 
fair compensation
Our usual  approach to compensation is to put people  in as close as we can to the position 
they would  be in if the business hadnt done anything wrong. I intend to follow  this approach  
here.
I dont think it would  be fair to require  SCML to hold Ms Ms shares free of charge 
indefinitely, even if she was told this would be possible at the outset.  I say this because  
Ms Ms initial  information came from her broker, not SCML. So it wouldnt be fair to hold 
SCML responsible for it. And SCML  is providing  her with a service, for which custody  fees 
are often charged.
I also think its reasonable for businesses to review their costs and amend their charging  
structure from time to time, provided  they communicate the change  clearly and with sufficient 
notice - and their contracts  permit them to vary their terms.  So although Im going to direct 
SCML to refund past fees, they remain entitled to charge them in future, if Ms M leaves her 
shares with them. 
For the sake of clarity, SCML should  give Ms M a month from the date of this decision to 
decide what she wants to do and arrange a sale or transfer if she so chooses. After that, if 
she retains her shares with SCML, they are free to charge her custody fees. If she chooses  
to move her shares elsewhere, SCML shouldnt charge an exit fee. 
Ref: DRN87382764I know Ms M still feels that the £100  compensation for the distress  caused by SCMLs 
unclear communication isnt enough.  But I dont agree that they lied to her or misled her on 
the phone. Im satisfied that £100 is fair to reflect the distress their actions  have caused.  
In summary,  to put things right, SCML should:
Replace Ms Ms shares, so her shareholding is restored back  to the original number  
of shares she bought  in 2014.
Refund any further custody fees and debit interest so as to restore  Ms Ms account to 
a nil cash balance (if it isnt currently at nil)
Permit Ms M to transfer her shares elsewhere, if she chooses to do so, without 
incurring an exit fee. 
Suspend custody fees for a further  month from the date of this decision to give Ms M 
time to decide what to do with her shares.  
Pay Ms M the equivalent  in Euros of £100 for the trouble and upset SCML have 
caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and direct Saxo Capital  Markets UK Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8738276