K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI). 
background
Mr W took out a PPI policy at the same time as he applied for a mortgage  in 1997. The sale 
took place in one of the banks branches. The policy gave him accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment cover  and he paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr W disagreed  so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr Ws representative says at no point  was it made clear  to Mr W that PPI was optional. I 
cant know what was said in the meeting but Ive looked at the available  paperwork. Mr W 
completed and signed  a separate PPI application  form and direct  debit  mandate and there  
was nothing on the form that I think  could reasonably have led him to believe the PPI was 
mandatory. Ive thought  carefully about his representatives comments but I also have to 
take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what  Mr W recalls. 
Overall, I think its most likely Lloyds made  it clear  that the PPI was optional  and Mr W chose 
to take it out.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. Mr W says he 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if he was sick, but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident  and sickness claim.  It also gave him up to 12 months  redundancy 
cover. Mr W says he had savings of around £3,500 but the PPI would have allowed him to 
use these to cover other living expenses  whilst  not working, or to keep them  intact for his 
future needs. 
Mr W was borrowing a large sum over a long period, secured on his home.  So the effects  of 
not keeping up the repayments  could have been  serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI 
would have been useful for Mr W if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Mr W all the information he needed before deciding  to buy 
PPI. I dont know when  the cost was made  clear  but the PPI was competitively priced and 
apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank  pointed out the main things the PPI 
didnt cover. But Mr W doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main  exclusions. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI wouldve changed his mind  about buying it.
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
Ref: DRN84105012But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8410501