K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains about the reduction in cover  two years after being told by Old Mutual 
Wealth Life Assurance Limited (the business) that her cover would remain the same  for the 
next five years. 
Shes unhappy the business now says that the premium can only be maintained  for the next 
two years.  Shes  also unhappy about why she wasnt told about the fee deductions yearly. 
She is being assisted  by her daughter Miss K. 
background
In 2017, Mrs K paid an annual premium of £4,881 for £150,000 worth of cover.   But in 2018 
the sum assured fell to £67,347 at what appeared to be a cost of £5,848 a year. 
Mrs K sent a cheque  for £5,848 hoping to maintain the £150,000 sum assured. But the 
cheque was duly returned by the business as her premium had actually remained the same.
Mrs K said she was under the impression that £4,881 was the minimum premium  payable for 
the next five years. But in 2019, she discovered  that the premium was sufficient only to 
provide £67,347  worth  of life cover for the next two years.  
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Shes only concerned  with the administration of the policy because the business 
wasnt responsible  for the sale. 
This was a reviewable whole of life policy that was guaranteed  for the first 10 years, 
after which time the business  would  review the premiums  to see if they were  
sufficient to maintain  the level of cover. If the premiums  were insufficient theyd 
provide options  to either reduce the sum assured or increase the premiums.  
The 2018 review  letter made  clear that Mrs Ks current premium wasnt  expected  to 
meet the cost of her cover  for one more year. This meant she had to reduce her 
cover, increase  her premium or both.
Mrs K had the option to increase her premium to £11,835 in order  to maintain her 
£150,000 sum assured for the next five years. Or reduced her sum assured to 
£67,347 and continue to pay the same premium for the next five years.  
In 2018, the business  reviewed the mortality rates as a whole in line with regulation 
which led to changes  to the applicable  rates.  This is why the review made clear that 
changes would be required, even though previously   in 2017  the business said the 
premium could be sustained for the next five years.  
In 2018, when Mrs K queried this she was told that the business couldnt be certain 
of when she would need to increase her premium, or what  the increase  would  be, as 
this was affected by its investment  growth and charges neither of which  were 
guaranteed. 
The 2019 review  letter explained  the changes to the charges. It also explained that 
Mrs Ks current premium  of £4,881 is estimated to meet the cost of cover for the next 
two years. But it also explained that they estimated a premium of £6,926.92  will 
provide cover for the next five years.
The review documents also outlined the charges that applied to the plan each year. 
Ref: DRN86487702Whilst Mrs K is unhappy with the increased premium to maintain the sum assured the 
investigators unable  to say the business  has done anything  wrong.   
Mrs K disagreed with the investigators view and in response made a number of key points. 
But having  considered the points our investigator  wasnt persuaded to change  her mind.  In 
summary she said:
The paragraph that Mrs K refers  to in the 2018 letter states  we offer the lowest 
premium you can pay to keep your current cover for the next five years. We have 
also offered the highest sum assured we can for your current premium for the next 
five years. It doesnt guarantee the level of cover will simply be maintained. 
She acknowledges that the letter quoted  the incorrect amount for Mrs Ks premium 
which she explained in her earlier assessment of the complaint.
The business checks the plans every year to see if its expected to last another five 
years. If it isnt the business writes to the consumer with the current  status  of the plan 
and thats what  it has done in this case,  detailing how long it expects the premium to 
maintain the sum assured.
But as all this is based on estimates, it isnt guaranteed and Mrs K may not find 
herself in a position where the premium wont support the sum assured in the way 
the business previously predicted.  
The business has recently replied to one of Mrs Ks letters explaining that the 
changes are paid for by the proceeds from the sale of the units, and not by taking 
deductions from the sum assured.
The fall in the sum assured is likely to have  caused Mrs K a great deal of upset, but 
shes unable to conclude  that the business  has done anything  wrong.    
It has made reasonably clear  in its correspondence with Mrs K that the cost to 
maintain the policy  is dependent upon the underlying investment  performance,  and 
the increasing cost of life cover as Mrs K gets older.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for broadly the same  reasons. 
Im not going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence and on balance, despite  what Mrs K say, Im unable to say that 
the business has done anything wrong in the way that it has administered the policy.   
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mrs Ks strength of feeling about  this matter. 
Miss K provided detailed  submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  Miss K and Mrs K wont take the fact my findings 
focus on what I consider  to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
Ref: DRN86487703The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Miss K and the business, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Its important to reiterate  that the type of policy Mrs K is complaining about is known as a 
reviewable whole of life insurance. Its not set up for a specific term, or particular diagnosis, 
but is instead designed to pay out on death whenever it occurs. 
At the start of the policy, the amounts of the cover and monthly premium are based on 
assumptions about a number  of different factors, including the future cost of life cover and 
investment performance, that arent  known at the start. 
Plan illustrations or projections can only give an indication of what the cost of premiums are 
likely to be, but they offer no guarantee as to the likely cost of the premiums. This is why Mrs 
K couldnt have  been told precisely how the premiums were  likely to change.  
Each premium paid into the policy is split two ways. The first part is used to pay for the cost 
of cover in that month. The remainder is invested into a fund or funds. Any charges due are 
deducted from the sale of units rather than from a deduction of the sum assured. The cost of 
the cover  however isnt fixed and actually increases with age as Mrs K has no doubt  seen. 
This doesnt mean the policy is age discriminatory - it just takes account of the higher risk 
the insurer will have resulting from the insured persons increased age, and the increased 
likelihood of a claim as the life assured gets older. 
In this case the hope is that the investment  element will grow enough to fund the shortfall  
when the policy reaches  the point that the cost of cover becomes greater than the premium 
being paid, and this may explain the sharp rise in 2019. Whilst projections can be made, 
there are no guarantees, and the projections  constantly have to be re-checked.   
Its likely  that at the point  of sale Mrs K wouldve been given the assumed  yearly growth fund 
figures which determined  whether  (or not) the premiums she paid could maintain the level of 
cover or whether theyd need to increase it to pay for the increased cost of life cover.  
Thats why policies are reviewed regularly to check how theyre performing against the 
original assumptions.  At each review  at the outset,  the insurer also needs  to make new 
assumptions about the cost of cover and investment performance in the future.  
Thats why its not always possible to predict  future premium increases with any degree  of 
accuracy. But not being able to predict future  premiums doesnt  mean  the policy  was mis-
sold or isnt being  administered  correctly.  So whilst  the cost of premiums  might not have 
increased over the years, theres no guarantee that they wouldnt  increase, or continue to 
increase in future as Mrs K is finding  out.  
Once these calculations are completed, the insurer can determine whether the policy  has 
passed the review  - usually meaning  no changes  to cover or premium are required, or 
failed   usually  meaning the policyholder  will be offered the choice of either paying a higher  
Ref: DRN86487704premium to maintain  the same level of cover or accepting reduced cover for the same 
premium. 
This may explain why in 2018 Mrs K was told shed need to reduce her sum assured and 
then subsequently told that the premium needed was unlikely  to be able to maintain the level 
of cover for the next two years rather than five years.   
I note the insurer  accepts that in 2018  it provided  the incorrect  figure. Subsequently it made 
clear that if Mrs K wanted  to maintain the £150,000 sum assured she would have to pay 
£11,835. This however hasnt caused Mrs K a financial loss.   
On balance Im satisfied given the nature and operation of the policy, it allowed the business 
to do what it was doing, and that it didnt mislead Mrs K about how the policy  would work. 
 
Im unable to say that the business  has done  anything wrong by asking Mrs K in 2019 to 
consider increasing  the monthly premiums  to in order  to maintain the sum assured, or 
maintain the same premium but reduce  the sum assured. 
Ive a great deal of sympathy for Mrs K in light of the possible future unaffordable premium  
increases. But that said, she still has the option to reduce  the sum assured and pay the 
same premium or increase the premium in order to maintain  the same sum assured.  
I appreciate Mrs K will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isnt what she wants to hear.  Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not persuaded the business  needs  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give Mrs K 
what she wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8648770