K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in February  2005. Mrs G says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs G complained to this Service. She said her PPI had been  mis-sold. Our adjudicator  
agreed with her and said the PPI had been  mis-sold because Mrs G had a pre-existing 
medical condition  which the PPI policy would  not cover.  Tesco disagreed with our 
adjudicators opinion and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019  where I explained why I thought the mis-sale 
complaint should  be rejected. We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and 
invited them to comment. Neither  party had anything further to add and no-one produced 
new evidence for me to look at, so I see no reason to change  the conclusions  I reached in 
my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs G case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think Tesco made it clear on the postal  application form that Mrs G didnt have to take 
out the PPI and that she chose to take it out; although  as this was a postal sale around 
14 years  ago - I can understand why she may not remember  this.
 Tesco didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs G so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs G got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
 Its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  
 Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it does look like she might  
have been affected  by the exclusion covering a pre-existing medical condition. Mrs G 
said she was diagnosed as having an underactive thyroid  around 26 years ago. She 
could not produce any medical evidence due to the time which  had elapsed.  However, 
she told Tesco at around the time of making her complaint that her condition was treated 
with medication and she had never taken time off work for her condition. Having seen 
that, I dont think it likely that she would have wanted to claim on the PPI for her pre-
existing medical condition. So I think the PPI would still have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off from taking out the cover. 
 Which means Tesco  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
Ref: DRN81662762But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Tesco didnt  tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has basically  offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs G has said - including  what she said about her pre-existing  
medical condition  and being  able to rely on her husbands income  which its possible she 
may not have been able to rely on for the full life of the credit card. But these points dont 
change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, Tesco has to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should also pay back to Mrs G any 
extra interest she paid because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs G the difference  between 
what Mrs G owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple  
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium   if it has not already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8166276