K820x#14complaint
Miss G, represented by Mr F, complains  about  what she thinks  were excessive charges on 
her credit card, as well as HSBC Bank Plcs  (HSBC) lack of response to several  letters she 
sent including a data subject access request (SAR).
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 11 December 2018 - a copy of which is attached  and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
HSBC wanted  to confirm Id told it to provide the information (SAR) that Miss G had 
previously requested but said it accepted  the provisional decision.  But Miss G hasnt 
responded and therefore  hasnt provided anything further for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the conclusions I came to in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, overall I dont uphold 
Miss Gs complaint. But as HSBC  UK Bank Plc is now aware  that Miss G has made  a SAR it 
should now process this request in its usual  way. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN89914842copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss G, represented by Mr F, complains  about what she thinks were excessive charges on her credit 
card, as well as HSBC  Bank Plcs (HSBC) lack of response to several letters she sent including a 
data subject access  request (SAR).  
background
Miss G took out a credit card with HSBC in 2002. In 2012 she began  writing to HSBC as she believed 
she was mis sold payment protection insurance (PPI) on the card. After  various communications  her 
complaint was brought to this service but closed  in 2016 because there was no evidence  that shed 
had PPI on her card.  
In December 2017 Mr F wrote to HSBC on Miss Gs behalf requesting copies of all the information 
HSBC held for her. He didnt receive  a response and wrote again in 
January 2018. In March  2018 Miss G made a formal  complaint about the excessive charges, 
commission, profit  etcrefers to my purchase of an HSBC  mastercard.
HSBC didnt  uphold the complaint as it said it no longer  held any records regarding the 
credit card. It also said Miss Gs complaint had been brought  outside of the time limits allowed. 
Miss G didnt agree  and said her complaint was about  the excessive charges and also HSBCs failure  
to respond to several letters she and Mr F had sent,  in particular the letter  including the SAR.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint and said the complaint  had been  brought in time,  
which HSBC agreed with. He then said that, whilst  he accepted  HSBC  couldnt provide any evidence  
about any excessive  charges applied to the card, he did think it had failed to respond to some of Miss 
Gs letters,  including the SAR, and asked it to pay £100  in recognition.
HSBC didnt  agree. It said it had responded to all of the letters it had received but couldnt  reply  to 
ones it hadnt. It didnt accept there was sufficient proof the letters  had been sent. As theres  been no 
resolution the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Miss Gs complaint  had two parts and Ill look at each one in turn.
Excessive charges on the credit card
Miss G hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support her belief that shed suffered excessive 
credit card charges. This is in some part because she says she hasnt been able to get that 
information from HSBC. 
But HSBC has said that it no longer holds any information relating to the card which was closed 
some time ago. Ive seen evidence to show it hasnt got any information.
Banks are only required to keep records  of accounts and cards for six years.  Whilst  most banks do 
keep records for longer than this theres no obligation  for them to do so. In this case HSBC says it no 
longer holds  any information on Miss Gs card and therefore I cant  say its done  anything  wrong in not 
being able to provide information relating to any charges on the card.  Without any evidence of what  
charges Miss G might  be referring to its not reasonable for me to say that any charges may have 
been unfair.
Ref: DRN89914843Failure to respond  to correspondence  and provide  SAR
Ive looked carefully at all the copies of letters that were  sent by Miss G, her representative  Mr F, and 
HSBC. I note there is some  reference to letters that werent answered  between  2012 and 2015 but I 
think any issues  during  those dates would  have been considered within  the complaint that was looked  
at by this service in 2016.
So, Ive considered  any failures  to respond from 2017 onwards. HSBC says it answered every letter it 
received and if it didnt respond  thats  because  it didnt  receive the correspondence. In particular  I can 
see its referred to the letter Miss G sent in  
December 2017 and a reminder  in January 2018. Ive seen evidence showing all the letters HSBC 
said were  scanned onto its system and theres no record of those  two letters. 
In some cases we see, there is a dispute about whether  correspondence  was sent and received. In 
this case  theres no dispute that Miss G and HSBC  did correspond with each other, just that some 
letters were unanswered.  I cant confirm that the letters  were definitely sent and so Ive had to make a 
decision based on what I believe most likely  did happen. 
I think,  on balance, the letters were sent. I say that because Miss G and Mr F sent numerous letters to 
HSBC and theres evidence most were  received and responded to. I believe its more likely than not 
the letters  in December 2017 and January 2018 were sent like the others. Its seems  unlikely to me 
that Miss G would provide  copies of numerous  letters that were sent and responded  to, and include 
copies of two letters which werent.  And if the first letter was sent it seems likely  to me that a chase 
letter would be sent a few weeks later when  no response had been received.
But although  I think the letters were sent theres no evidence of where they were  sent or who they 
were addressed to. Miss G and Mr F dont  have any proof of delivery  or that the letters were  
acknowledged for example.  So, theres also no evidence that HSBC  received them.  That means it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that HSBC  acted unfairly  here. It may be that the letters were  lost in the 
post, for example,  but thats  not something thats HSBCs fault. 
I know Miss G feels strongly about this matter and I can assure  her Ive carefully considered  the 
letters that were sent and all the other correspondence  between  her and HSBC.  But I can see HSBC 
has responded to Miss G and Mr F following other letters it did receive,  so I think  its fair to say on the 
whole that HSBC did communicate  with Miss G and wasnt  ignoring her. In order to uphold  this 
complaint I would need  to be satisfied  that HSBC did receive those  letters and I cant  safely  say that 
here. I think based on its previous actions its more  likely than not that if HSBC had received them it 
would most likely have provided the information Miss G requested.
Ultimately I dont think, on balance, that HSBC has done  anything wrong here based  on what Ive 
seen and in the circumstances  of the complaint, so Im not going  to ask it to make any compensatory  
award. I understand HSBC  is now aware of Miss Gs request as a result of this complaint and it 
should provide the information within  the appropriate  timescales.
 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont intend to uphold  Miss Gs complaint against HSBC Bank Plc. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8991484