K820x#14complaint
Miss X complains  about how HSBC UK Bank  Plc has managed  payments to her credit card 
account.
background
Miss X says she has a current  account,  a savings account, and a credit  card account with 
HSBC. It seems as if she also has another account  with HSBC, which she doesnt regard as 
hers. Thats not the subject of this complaint.
Miss X has told us that she has a disability. Although shes  chosen not to discuss  that with 
us in depth, she has told us that she has a chronic  illness. She has described  the symptoms  
she experiences. 
Miss X told us that around April or May 2018  she had decided to make a manual  payment 
towards her credit card.  A few days later her direct debit was also taken out, which meant 
shed made  a double payment for that month. Miss X said that she called HSBC back once  
she discovered this. She said that HSBC then cancelled her direct debit without her 
instruction. That meant she missed  the following months payments, which  in turn meant she 
was unable to use the card. She said that the double payment also put her current account 
in overdraft and meant  she had to pay charges.
Miss X wanted HSBC  to reinstate her direct  debit, and to reverse  the charges on her current  
account incurred  because of the double payment. 
HSBC sent us bank statements for Miss X which showed that she made  a manual payment 
of £2,500 onto her credit card on 7 May.  She also made a payment by direct debit of a little 
less than £2,400 on 8 May. That payment was reversed on the same day. HSBC  said that it 
didnt think that what had gone wrong  here was its fault. 
The second  payment for Miss Xs credit card was for a large  amount of money,  but it went 
out of her account  and was put back in on the same  day. So Miss Xs current account didnt 
go into overdraft at that time. 
On 9 May,  HSBC sent a letter to Miss X saying  that her direct  debit  was cancelled, in line 
with her instructions.  But HSBC hasnt sent us anything which suggested  that Miss X had 
asked it to cancel  her direct debit  instruction.
No payment was then made to Miss Xs credit  card statement  for June. Her June statement 
says her payment  was overdue,  and shows that a late fee was applied. HSBC  wrote to her 
on 11 June to say that she had missed  a payment. 
Miss X complained about her direct debit being  cancelled in mid-June. It was reinstated  for 
her then, and HSBC wrote to Miss X confirming that.
Miss Xs credit card statement  for July shows that she received a refund  of interest and of a 
late fee. HSBC had tried to ring her at the end of July, and when it didnt get through,  it wrote  
to her. It said sorry about the direct  debit problem, and told her it had made these refunds. It 
also confirmed that there  had been no effect on her credit file. It said that it had credited her 
account with £25 to say sorry. 
Ref: DRN82788292Our investigator said that HSBC had apologised for the inconvenience, and had explained 
what went wrong with the duplicated payment. And it had reinstated  the wrongly cancelled  
direct debit. 
Our investigator noted that Miss X had paid fees and interest  on her credit  card account 
because of HSBCs mistake, but those fees were  refunded on 15 June. And Miss X was also 
credited with £25 on 24 July by way of an apology. And as HSBC had also confirmed for 
Miss X that this episode hadnt had any negative effect on her credit file, our investigator 
didnt think it had to do any more than that. 
Miss X didnt agree with our investigators view. She said that she didnt feel that her 
complaint had been fully investigated,  and may not have been fully understood. Miss X said 
that our service should have powers  to force businesses  to change how they deal with 
people with disabilities.  Our investigator  explained that we will look at what  has happened in 
each case, to that customer. And we would uphold a complaint if we didnt think a 
customers disability issues had been taken into account. But its not in our remit to ask a 
business to make wholesale changes to their processes. 
Miss X has previously explained the wider impact that her disability has on her, and in 
particular how this makes  banking much more  difficult for her. She has brought three 
complaints about  HSBC  to our service at the same  time, and mentioned previous issues 
which are not the subject  of these complaints. She asked us to take the whole, overall 
picture into consideration when deciding her complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  on this 
complaint as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.  
Miss X made a manual  payment  to her credit  card,  the day before her direct  debit was due. 
Her direct debit was then also taken from her account. But HSBC  acted  promptly  to reverse 
that. And I havent  seen anything that suggests to me that HSBC  gave  Miss X any wrong 
information, that would make  her think that her direct debit wouldnt be taken. So I dont think 
that what went wrong, with the duplicated  payment, was HSBCs fault. 
But HSBC  did something else then too. It cancelled  Miss Xs direct  debit.  That doesnt seem  
to have been in response  to any request by her to do this. So I think  that was a mistake by 
HSBC. 
Although HSBC did write to Miss X to say that it was cancelling  her direct debit, there isnt 
any reason why she wouldve been expecting  a letter to tell her that. And I think that Miss X 
may not have received this letter, because  when her payment  for June wasnt  made by 
direct debit, she told HSBC she didnt know that the direct debit had been cancelled.
HSBC put the direct  debit back. It paid Miss X back the interest and fees shed been 
charged. And it paid her £25 to say sorry. It also checked her credit file, to make sure that 
this hadnt resulted in any negative markers being  placed there.  
Like our investigator,  I think that HSBC acted promptly to correct its mistake,  and to put Miss 
X back in the position shed have been in if this hadnt happened.  Thats  what  Id expect. 
Ref: DRN82788293HSBC also paid Miss X £25 in compensation, and it has apologised to her. I think  that 
provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.  
HSBC did do something wrong. But I think its already  done  enough to put that right. So I 
dont think it has to do any more.  
Miss X has asked us to take her disability, as well as the wider context of both her other  
complaints against  HSBC  and other  issues shes alerted  us to, into account when assessing 
this complaint. Our service has explained  to Miss X that we can only look at the complaint 
shes raising in each case. But Ive sought  to set that in the context of Miss Xs experience 
overall. I dont think that what  HSBC  did in this case was related in any way to Miss Xs 
disability. And I think it acted appropriately to support Miss X when it realised it had made a 
mistake. So I dont think that HSBC has discriminated against Miss X on grounds of her 
disability, or failed to provide her with appropriate support, in this case.
Our service has checked with HSBC whether it has recorded that Miss X has a disability. 
Staff in her local branch  may be aware  of this, but HSBC would need her express  permission 
to note this on its system.  Although HSBC is aware that she has previously requested  a 
particular type of card, because of her disability, it has no notes  on its system recording that 
she has a disability. Miss X may want to consider giving HSBC  express  permission to record  
that on her file. 
I know that Miss X will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8278829