K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Hastings Insurance Services Limited,  an insurance broker,  
wouldnt let them cancel  the auto-renewal  of their home insurance by email.  They  wanted  to 
cancel because their premium had risen  on the previous year.  
background
Mr and Mrs R received  their renewal letter for their home insurance policy. It stated it would 
automatically renew unless the customer got in touch. But the annual  premium had gone up 
from just over £80 to over £270. So Mr R looked online and obtained much cheaper 
quotations  and two of them seemed to be from businesses in the same group as Hastings.
Mr R was unhappy with the situation. So he replied to the policy renewal email to say he 
didnt want to renew. He received an automated response and was unable to contact 
Hastings through  their online  chat facility. Mr R received a message from Hastings saying it 
couldnt complete  his request by email. He was asked to contact  one of its representatives  
instead. So hed like Hastings  to stop the automated email  reply system and to introduce  a 
better system for dealing with its customers.
Hastings apologised  if Mr R had been  unable to make contact using  the live chat facility. It 
was a relatively new system and Hastings was looking  to improve  things. Hastings said itd 
replied on the same  day to ask Mr R to get in touch  about his renewal. It wasnt  able to 
accept cancellations  by email for security reasons. 
Hastings explained  it operates as an intermediary. The insurance premiums are calculated 
by the insurers  based on a number  of factors. And the renewal notice does advise 
customers to look at alternatives if the quote doesnt suit their needs. 
Mr and Mrs R werent  satisfied with Hastings response.  So they contacted  our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She could see Hastings  normally required customers  
to cancel their policy by telephone for security  reasons. She felt that was a reasonable 
precaution. Our investigator explained our service isnt able to tell a business how to set its 
procedures. But she could  see Hastings had now allowed Mr and Mrs R to cancel their 
policy by email after it was satisfied there werent  any security concerns. 
Our investigator explained she couldnt look at the difference in quotations available.  She 
could only look at whether Hastings had treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly or unreasonably. And 
she felt Hastings had dealt with the complaint  fairly.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  with Hastings insurance renewal procedures. After comparing 
the quoted renewal premium with other options online they were disappointed they couldnt 
cancel the automatic renewal by email. So Ive looked carefully at everything that Mr and 
Mrs R and Hastings have  said.
Ref: DRN86739222Its common practice in the insurance  industry  to auto-renew policies for home insurance, 
automobiles and the like. Unfortunately letters  and emails can go astray or be missed.  And 
insurers feel its better to continue to provide cover automatically than risk a customer  being 
without cover because  they werent aware they needed to respond.  So I think  Hastings has 
acted reasonably in sending  email  auto-renewal  notices to alert customers that its time to 
renew their policy.
The renewal  notice asks customers to get in touch if they dont want  to automatically renew. 
And a telephone number  is provided  on the first page. The policy document also asks policy 
holders to contact  by telephone before the renewal date if they dont want to auto-renew.
Hastings says its normal procedure is for customers to speak to them if they want  to cancel 
their policy.  There  is a risk that emails  (or letters) might be intercepted  and a policy  cancelled  
without the policy holder  being aware they didnt have insurance from that point onwards. So 
by asking customers wishing to cancel to make  contact  and confirm  security details it helps 
reduce the risk. I think  thats a sensible  policy. Im sure Mr and Mrs R wouldnt want Hastings 
to allow  someone  to cancel their insurance without them  being  aware  of it.
Mr R responded to the email asking for the policy to be cancelled.  And I can see Hastings 
messaged him back to explain  he would need to call to discuss the matter  as it wouldnt 
normally accept a cancellation by email. After  a number of conversations it seems Hastings 
felt assured they were dealing with Mr R and accepted  his request. And a letter was sent to 
confirm the policy would  end in December  2018.
I appreciate it must seem frustrating that Hastings can send out renewal letters  by email but 
is unable to accept  a cancellation request by the same method. But as our investigator has 
explained, its not the role of this service  to tell Hastings how to run its business.  Thats  the 
role of its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.  Our role is to see if Hastings has made 
any mistakes  - and if so what it should  do to put things right. I think Hastings has acted 
reasonably in establishing procedures  to safeguard itself and its customers against fraud. 
And its followed them correctly.
Mr and Mrs R said the renewal quote  they received  was too high. Although the quote was 
passed on to them by Hastings the quote came from the insurer of their policy which  is a 
separate business. This means  I cant look at this as a complaint against Hastings. In any 
event, as Mr and Mrs R didn't accept the quote  and decided  to take out a policy  elsewhere,  I 
don't think  this prejudiced their position as I can't see there has been a financial loss.
I can see our investigator has explained Hastings acts as a broker  and passes on the cost 
quoted to them by the insurer. Theyre not responsible for setting the price of the policy. And 
the renewal quote  does  recommend customers compare other products if the quote isnt 
suitable. 
There are a number of factors which can affect the premium quoted  and I think Mr R did the 
right thing by checking for an alternative policy when  he wasnt  satisfied with the quotation 
he received.
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant really say Hastings has done anything wrong. It has 
put in place a sensible procedure to protect customers  from fraudulent cancellation. But Im 
pleased to see Mr and Mrs R were able to stop the auto-renewal and find a better quotation 
elsewhere.
Ref: DRN86739223my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020 .
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8673922