K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that when they were sold an equity release mortgage by 
Age Partnership Limited they werent told about options like a repayment mortgage but were 
only told about an equity  release mortgage. 
background
The loan was recommended  and sold in January  2010. Mr and Mrs Rs representative  
believes that Mr and Mrs R would have  been better off taking out a repayment mortgage  and 
repaying it monthly. She thinks it is unfair  that this option wasnt discussed with them.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She noted the information 
provided to Mr and Mrs R at the time. In conclusion, she didnt think  that options  other  than 
equity release would have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs R as they let Age Partnership 
know they didn't  have  any disposable  income  and their circumstances weren't going  to 
change in the foreseeable future. The savings Mr and Mrs R had also wouldn't  have been 
enough to repay the total amount required to purchase the freehold,  so an equity release 
mortgage was recommended. She didn't believe Age Partnership was unreasonable  in not 
discussing other options, such as other types  of mortgages or loans, as it doesn't  seem likely 
Mr and Mrs R would  have been eligible  for them.
Mr and Mrs Rs representative didnt accept  the investigators view. Given the time that has 
elapsed since 2010 she has only been able to provide  limited  evidence of their finances but 
she has provided evidence that Mr and Mrs R had paid £1,000 into a saving account on 
three occasions in early  2010. She said this was Mr and Mrs Rs monthly savings and 
illustrates their disposal income. She has also provided evidence of mortgages available  at 
the time which she says would have had monthly  payments in the region of £600.
The investigator responded to explain why what Mr and Mrs Rs representative had said 
hadnt changed her mind. She said that Mr and Mrs R had let the Age Partnership  know they 
didn't want  a product which included paying  monthly and a repayment mortgage  would have 
meant this is something they would need to do. She also said that when offering repayment 
mortgages businesses  consider more  than just disposable income and Mr and Mrs R may 
not have met other tests.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs Rs representative brought this complaint  to the Age Partnership objected  
to us looking at the complaint because it said the complaint had been made too late. As a 
result I issued  a decision  saying which parts of the complaint this service could and could not 
look at. This decision therefore  only considers the one aspect  of the complaint I said we 
could consider which is whether or not other borrowing options  were discussed with 
Mr and Mrs R by The Age Partnership.
Ref: DRN89958472Like the investigator I place considerable weight on the documents provided by Age 
Partnership to Mr and Mrs R at the time of the advice. Mr and Mrs R signed a document  to 
say that the document  headed summary of our conversation  with you was a true record of 
their discussions  with the adviser and that they understood  if they had given incorrect  
information this would  affect  the advice provided. The form they signed  goes on specifically 
to ask them to confirm the income  figures they have provided are true. In the summary of 
our conversation with you it states  Mr and Mrs R didnt have sufficient assets to meet their 
objective of purchasing the freehold. It also shows a monthly income  of £2,400  with monthly  
outgoings of £2,400 showing no disposal income. And that they didnt expect any changes to 
this in the near future.  The summary also says they would prefer a plan that did not require 
them to make monthly interest  payments.
I appreciate the efforts Mrs R and Mr and Mrs Rs representative have gone to in order to try 
to provide evidence  of their income  and expenditure at the time of the advice.  Given  the 
passage of time it is difficult to be certain of exactly their position.  I think we can be clear  that 
neither they nor their family had sufficient funds to purchase the freehold without borrowing 
money. This is accepted by Mr and Mrs Rs representative in her letter  of 30 January 2018. 
In addition, neither  Mrs R nor the representative  disputes that Mr and Mrs R signed  the 
paperwork Ive described above or that the figures  set out are different from those discussed 
with the adviser.  An adviser can only give advice based on the information she receives from 
her clients.  I think  given  the summary Ive seen it was reasonable for the adviser  to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs R had no disposable income and therefore looking at the option of a 
repayment mortgage wasnt viable. This was particularly so given Mr and Mrs Rs stated 
wish not to have  monthly  payments. 
I appreciate that Mrs R and Mr and Mrs Rs representative now think they did have disposal 
income and that a repayment mortgage might have been more suitable. But even if this were 
true, I dont think I can hold the adviser responsible for not giving advice based on this if she 
was told they had no disposal income. 
I think the summary fairly  reflects the discussion which  took place between  the adviser and 
Mr and Mrs R and that they declared  they had no disposal income and didnt  want to make  
monthly payments  in any event. In these circumstances I think it was reasonable of the 
adviser not to investigate  a repayment mortgage or other standard repayment  loan for them.  
I think it was reasonable  to focus the advice on an equity release  loan.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2020.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8995847