K820x#14complaint
Ms C says Nationwide Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold her a regular payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy to cover her credit  card repayments.
background
Ms C applied for a credit card by post in 1997. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to 
cover her credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.60 per £100 of the balance on Ms Cs 
credit card. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding  balance 
for up to 12 months per claim if Ms C was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Cs complaint should  be upheld because  she thought Ms C 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Ms C disagrees. She says she didnt even know she had it.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Cs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for when Ms C completed a leaflet type application for a credit card. 
NBS have given  us a copy of the application  Ms C completed.  
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. It gives 
the option to select PPI with a tick next to the words  I confirm that I want to protect my card 
repayments or declining  cover by ticking next to the words I do not want to protect my 
card repayments.  I can see on Ms Cs application  form a tick has been  placed in the box 
to take PPI. If Ms C didnt  want PPI she could have ticked to decline cover  instead. 
So I think because Ms C selected to take PPI with a tick she understood she had a choice in 
taking the policy and wanted  the cover. 
Because the PPI was taken out by completing a leaflet I dont think NBS advised Ms C to 
take PPI. What this means is that NBS didnt recommend PPI to Ms C, it just gave her 
information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could  make  an informed choice about  buying PPI.
I dont know if NBS did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if NBS did 
give all the information  Ms C needed  to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, 
I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know 
about NBS policies:
Ref: DRN82382232She was eligible for the PPI.
Ms C says she was suffering from a pre-existing medical condition at the time and 
claims for pre-existing  medical conditions were  excluded from cover under the policy. 
But Ive seen  no evidence that her condition  led to her needing time off work for a period  
that would warrant  a claim under the policy. So I dont  think  this wouldve have stopped 
her taking the policy. And it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the 
other main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Ms C says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
she could use to make her repayments  if she couldnt work due to accident  or sickness  
or if she lost her job. But the policy wouldve  paid out on top of any sick pay and savings 
and helped  her in these situations,  so I cant see how knowing this information  wouldve 
put her off buying  it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms C and she could cancel 
the policy  if she no longer wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms C on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to her.
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Ms C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Ms Cs complaint  against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8238223