K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs W took out PPI alongside a joint mortgage as part of a total mortgage 
protection plan (TMPP) to protect their mortgage  repayments. This covered Mr W in the 
event of accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  their mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs W 
disagree with our adjudicators view. Mr and Mrs W mainly say that it was strongly implied 
that taking out PPI would  help them get the mortgage - and so they did so in order to ensure 
theyd get the mortgage  they were  applying for. Mr and Mrs W told us they had substantial 
cover already through  Mr Ws employer and they didn't want  any additional cover.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Ideally Id expect  the paperwork to show whats likely  to have happened at the time and how 
the PPI was likely to have been presented. Halifax  hasnt been able to provide anything 
signed by Mr and Mrs W to show how they agreed to take out the PPI. But I dont think thats  
surprising. The PPI was sold around 17 years ago. I wouldnt  expect Halifax or 
Mr and Mrs W to have kept all the paperwork for this long. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Mrs W have said. But what  they say isnt 
enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint. Where theres only limited 
information I have  to look at all the available  information and decide what  I think  is most 
likely.
This service has seen copies of the TMPP paperwork Halifax used to sell PPI around this 
time. And we already  know from looking at other cases  what the process  was when Halifax 
sold TMPP. Ive no reason to think that Halifax wouldnt  have followed its normal sales 
process here. So I dont  think  its likely that Halifax  wouldnt have explained  that the PPI was 
optional. 
I think its likely that PPI was discussed  and recommended for Mr and Mrs W. And whilst  its 
understandable that theyve forgotten this after so long, I think  Mr and Mrs W wouldve been  
aware at the time that it was up to them to say whether or not they wanted to have  this 
insurance cover.
Their mortgage  was a big financial commitment, due to run for a long period of time. Their  
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  The PPI 
provided a dependable  means of ensuring  their monthly repayments were protected.  
Ref: DRN87319592On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs W decided  they wanted  to have the 
benefits PPI offered them. And the accident, sickness and unemployment cover was added 
to their mortgage at their request  when they chose  to buy it.
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs W. So, as well as giving Mr and Mrs W 
important policy information  in a clear way, Halifax also had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the cover it recommended  was suitable for their needs.  
Mr W was eligible for the policy given his circumstances  and the PPI terms and conditions.  
PPI wouldve  protected  Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage repayments for up to 24 months  per claim 
if Mr W was off work through  accident or sickness. This was significantly longer than Mr W 
couldve relied on his employer to pay him sick pay. So I think this couldve been a useful 
benefit at whats  likely  to have been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs W. Especially if theyd had 
extra costs  as a result of Mr W being ill or disabled. 
As well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim if Mr W lost 
his job and he was unemployed.  
He couldve made  repeated  claims on the policy and in this way it provided  Mr and Mrs W 
with long term cover for the mortgage. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs W wouldve always had savings  to rely on. And it looks  like they 
preferred not to spend savings, or they had other  plans for that money,  since they took out 
this mortgage  rather than invest all their savings to reduce  their borrowing. The policy 
provided cover for longer  than the amount of savings theyve mentioned  wouldve lasted if 
theyd had to rely on these to cover their mortgage monthly repayments. Having PPI meant 
Mr and Mrs W could  depend on being able to continue to keep any savings intact  to spend 
on other things or to provide  financial  security  for the future. 
So I think PPI offered useful cover  to Mr and Mrs W over and above the protection Mr Ws 
work benefits gave  them.  And I find it was a suitable recommendation for them. 
There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mr Ws case. So I think it unlikely that knowing more about what  the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve put Mr and Mrs W off taking it out. 
Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Ive seen  nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for them. And 
taking into account  the cost and the monthly benefit  that would be paid if a successful claim 
was made  I think the policy couldve provided Mr and Mrs W with a worthwhile  benefit .  
Overall, I think it unlikely  that Mr and Mrs W wouldve made a different decision about  taking 
out PPI if Halifax had given them better information. This means I dont think the PPI was 
mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax 
has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think  it 
needs to do anything more. 
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr and Mrs W.
Although Mr and Mrs W mentioned some other things during the course  of this complaint 
I can see that our adjudicator has already  responded on those issues. Theres nothing more 
Ref: DRN87319593I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already said. So in my decision I've 
concentrated on dealing with the main points  raised that affect  the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope  that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN8731959