K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  is unfairly pursuing her for a 
debt on a joint account that she didnt  open.
background
Mrs B says that her ex-husband opened an account and added her to the account  without 
her knowledge.  She says Halifax  is now asking her to repay the outstanding balance  and 
that it unfair.  Mrs B says her signature has been forged and believes her ex-husband took 
her driving licence into a branch to add her to the account. She says shes  not used the 
account t and would  like Halifax  to remove her details from it and stop asking her to repay 
the balance.
Halifax didnt uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and doesnt accept there  was any fraud. It says the 
account was opened in April 2015 and that Mrs B later attended a branch and signed the 
account opening forms and provided a copy of her driving licence. Halifax  also says a debit 
card was issued to Mrs B that was later used and that in line with the account terms and 
conditions is entitled  to pursue Mrs B for the debt.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator didnt uphold it. The adjudicator 
thought Mrs B had been added to the account  in September 2015 and had provided a copy 
of her driving  licence  to the Halifax branch and had signed the account opening forms. The 
adjudicator thought the signatures on those forms matched and also thought both Mrs B and 
her ex-partner had received account  statements. The adjudicator thought  the terms and 
conditions of the account made clear that both parties were jointly and severally liable for 
any debt and so Halifax hadnt made a mistake by asking Mrs B to repay the balance.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed. She cant explain how her 
ex-husband added her to the account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the adjudicator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs B will be disappointed by 
my decision.
I have looked  at the account opening  forms and documents. Having done so I can see that 
Mrs B appears to have  signed those forms and that her signature  appears to match that on 
her driving licence. But I can also see that Halifax  kept a copy  of the driving licence and has 
certified that in its view it is a true likeness of Mrs B. So I think  on balance  its likely that Mrs 
B did attend a Halifax branch and signed the application form to be added  to the account. I 
dont think it likely Halifax would have certified  the driving licence photo as being a true 
likeness of Mrs B unless she attended its branch  in person.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions and I am satisfied it was Mrs B that 
attended the branch and agreed  to them. I can see that those terms and conditions  make 
clear that both parties to the account  in this case Mrs B and her ex husband are jointly and 
severally liable for the account and any debt. So I dont  think Halifax  has acted unfairly or 
made a mistake by pursuing Mrs B for the full amount of the debt.
Ref: DRN82187392Overall Im satisfied Halifax hasnt made a mistake here or acted unfairly.  And Ive not seen 
any evidence that Mrs B was fraudulently added to this account. So I cant fairly order that 
Halifax remove Mrs B name from the account  or stop asking her to repay any debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8218739