K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained about the value Advantage Insurance  Company Limited  put on his car after 
he claimed under his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr Hs car was damaged  and Advantage decided it wasnt  economical to repair. They  
offered him its market value less deductions  for pre-loss damage  and because  his car didnt 
have an MOT certificate at the time. They also deducted salvage costs as he wanted  to keep 
his car. He felt that they hadnt offered him enough for his car and their deductions were 
unfair. And he didnt  want them to record  his claim as a fault claim, because the theft wasnt 
his fault. 
The investigator recommended  that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. The adjudicator  
thought that Advantage  hadnt acted fairly. He suggested that Advantage  should  
compensate Mr H for some  of the above matters. Mr H didnt agree and so Ive been asked 
to decide.
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont deal with Mr Hs complaint that Advantage didnt give him a courtesy car. Thats 
because, as the adjudicator explained, he would need to raise  it first with Advantage. 
However, as the adjudicator also explained,  it is usual  for insurers to provide a courtesy car 
only if a car is being repaired.
fault claim 
A fault claim is recorded on someones  insurance record when they make an insurance 
claim but their insurer cant recover their costs from anyone other  than the consumer; it 
doesnt have to mean its the consumers fault.  
So, unfortunately, in cases  involving theft, there  is no one to recover  costs from, and a fault 
claim is recorded against the consumer. Thats whats happened  here.  So Advantage arent  
suggesting it was Mr Hs fault. But nevertheless its not unreasonable for the fault claim to go 
on his record and so I dont ask Advantage to remove  it. 
cars valuation 
As the investigator  explained, Mr H was entitled under his policy  to the market  value of his 
car. This is an amount that reflects the cars value immediately before it was damaged 
beyond repair. It takes into account  a number  of factors including the cars age, condition, 
mileage and specification.  
The investigator also explained to Mr H our approach regarding complaints  about car 
valuations. We dont  decide what the market  value of a car is; instead we consider whether 
or not an insurer has reached  a fair and reasonable amount having regard to the valuations  
in the motor trade guides. Our approach, which we publish on our website, is to look at a 
number of motor  trade guides that are used to value second-hand cars. 
Ref: DRN89378042We believe they are reasonable and independent  and do give a reliable indication as to 
value as theyre based on nationwide  research of selling prices, not advertised prices, as 
cars may often be sold for less than the advertised  price. 
Advantage said they used the average of the relevant trade guides. The adjudicator  checked  
the trade guides  Advantage  had used and thought that their average should  be slightly more 
than what they had offered. He though it should  be £3,437.  Mr H thinks  that his car was 
worth more than this because it was rare and had a higher specification  including leather 
seats. But it was included in the trade  guides, so we wouldnt consider it rare. We also 
normally consider  that extras wouldnt increase a cars value and in any event, the trade 
guides market value  took into account those  features. 
Advantage wanted to deduct 10% of the market value because his car didnt have an MOT 
and a further £300 because of what they said was pre-accident  damage.  But Mr H said he 
hadnt had his car MOTd because he wasnt driving it. The adjudicator looked at his cars 
last three  MOTs and saw that there  hadnt  been any significant  defects then.  And, since 
Advantage havent shown  us anything to suggest  that it would have failed an MOT at the 
time of the loss. So I dont think its fair for them to reduce the settlement for that.
Advantage deducted £300 for pre-accident damage. They gave  us the independent  
engineers breakdown of the repair costs.  This shows that the total estimated repair costs for 
the pre-accident  damage was over £1,200. Such  damage does reduce a cars market  value,  
so we think its reasonable for an insurer to deduct 50% of the pre-accident repair cost from 
the cars  market value.  Advantage could have deducted up to around £600, but as theyve 
only deducted £300, I dont think thats  unreasonable. 
cars salvage value  
Mr H wanted his car back, and Advantage charged  him £783  for its salvage value. He 
thought that was too much because  the independent  engineer  suggested its savage value 
was about £493. 
However Advantage have shown us that they were  due to receive more than that from their 
salvage agent. We think it is acceptable for an insurer to charge a consumer for their cars 
salvage, because  once they settle a claim that a car is uneconomical to repair,  the car 
belongs to them. So when  a consumer wants the car back, its reasonable for the insurer to 
charge them  for that. Insurers often have a contract with salvage  agents under which  the 
salvage agents agree to pay them pre agreed  amounts for cars. 
So if the consumer  wants their car back, we dont  think  it unfair  for an insurer to effectively 
sell the consumer their car back for what they would have got for it from their salvage  
agents, as long as thats  not an unreasonably high percentage of the cars market  value.  
Advantage have  shown  us that they did have a contract for their salvage agents to give them 
£783 for Mr Hs car, and so I think its fair for Advantage  to deduct that. 
I appreciate that Mr H has lost his car through no fault of his own,  and I can see hes 
unhappy at being out of pocket because of it. However I can only look at what, if anything, 
an insurer has done wrong in settling a claim.  I agree  with the adjudicator  that the starting  
market value of Mr Hs car should  have been slightly higher, and that Advantage shouldnt 
have made  any deduction  for the lack of MOT certificate, but otherwise I think that they 
havent acted  unfairly.  
Ref: DRN89378043The adjudicator calculated as follows:
Market Value: £3,437
Pre-loss damage:  (£300)
Adjusted Market  Value:  £3,137
Offered by Hastings:  £2,900
Difference due to Mr H: £237
I agree  with the adjudicators view,  and so I think that Advantage should pay Mr H £237 plus 
8% interest. 
my final decision
For the reasons,  Ive given above  its my final decision that I uphold  this complaint. 
I require Advantage  Insurance  Company Limited to:
Pay Mr H £237, plus 8% a year simple interest on it from the date they paid his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
If Advantage consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from interest, they should tell Mr H how much they have taken  off, and give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8937804