K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that James  Hay Administration  Company  Ltd (James  Hay) hasnt 
satisfactorily explained what he considers sharp  falls in the value of his pension.  He asks to 
be reimbursed for the financial  loss he feels he has suffered.
background
Mr B held a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP) with a third party provider. In 2014, it 
made a commercial decision to close its pension business and Mr Bs SIPP  was transferred 
to James Hay.
Mr Bs SIPP  was made up of a number of underlying investments and some  cash. The 
transfer of the underlying investments was completed on 9 November 2015 and the transfer 
of the cash element was completed  on 20 January 2016. James Hay wrote  to Mr B to 
confirm the completion  of the transfer on 24 January  2016.
Mr B held his SIPP with James Hay until he decided to transfer it in December 2018, but 
during this time, he says he received confusing information regarding the value of his SIPP.  
He understands  his investment portfolio to show  a series of sharp declines which  he cannot 
corroborate with any market movements. He also doesnt feel James Hay have satisfactorily  
explained these  substantial falls and feels his investment portfolio has the appearance of 
charges being  levied.  He calculates there has been  an unexplained decline of £36,424.14, 
which he would like reimbursed.
In its final response dated 10 May 2019,  James  Hay feels  it has explained and accounted  
for, in detail, the valuations of Mr Bs pension  during  the time it was administered by them. It 
points out from the time it Mr Bs pension was transferred it hasnt received any instruction to 
sell any of the underlying investments nor make  any purchases.  Mr Bs SIPP  remained 
unchanged except  for receiving rebates  from the investments in the form of additional  units, 
as well as cash dividends.  James  Hay also says it deducted any fees from the cash element 
of the SIPP,  held in the SIPP  bank account.  It didnt  uphold  Mr Bs complaint.
An investigator looked into things for Mr B. He didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. He looked  
carefully at the unit values  of Mr Bs investment portfolio during the time it was administered 
by James Hay and considered the charges applied. He acknowledged  Mr Bs pension  had 
fluctuated in value but he concluded this was due to the underlying  changes  in the unit 
value. He didnt  find James Hay had done  anything wrong and so didnt ask it to do anything 
further.
Mr B disagreed. He says he fully understands markets fluctuate  and so values change.  But, 
he asserts  that the quantum of change, within specific short periods, in particular, when he 
has served notice to transfer elsewhere,  is entirely inconsistent  with market conditions.  He 
asks for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  view as the investigator. I realise this 
will come as a disappointment to Mr B. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN89595092Ive read and considered all the information,  but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, as Mr Bs complaint is against James Hay, I can only look at the pension  values form 
when it received the SIPP transfer, so I have  only considered the values since 9 November 
2015.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr Bs SIPP. I can see his pension is invested into different 
investment funds. As Mr B is aware  the value of the pension changes during time as its 
linked to the investment performance of the different funds and their underlying 
investments . Mr Bs investment  funds are valued by using  a unit price  and multiplying  
this by the number of units held in that fund. Mr Bs investment funds are made up of 
complex underlying  assets, which make it difficult to compare their performance to a 
market movement. 
From what  Ive seen, the value of Mr Bs SIPP has increased from the time it as 
transferred to James  Hay to the time he chose to transfer it to another  provider. But, the 
crux of Mr Bs complaint is in falls in value within specific periods, which  he considers 
unexplained and out of step with market conditions.  So, Ive looked closely  at the 
periods of time in question, Ive also considered James Hays  responsibility in the 
administration of Mr Bs SIPP and the charges it applied, in order to establish  if it has 
acted fairly  and reasonably.
Mr B raised concerns about what he considered a fall in value of £10,816.95 between  15 
January 2016  and 21 January 2016. Ive looked  at the correspondence between  James Hay 
and Mr B from the initial transfer  of his pension. When the pension  was transferred to 
James Hay from a third party provider, it was done  in two stages. This is because  the 
pension was partly  held in cash and partly  invested.  The part that was invested was 
transferred to James Hay on 9 November  2015; but the cash part of your pension  wasnt 
transferred to James Hay until 20 January 2016.
When James  Hay wrote to Mr B in January 2016 about the value of your transferred 
pension, the value provided  was for the pension  fund on 9 November 2015 and not for 
January 2016.  I can see why this this valuation could have caused some confusion  because 
the letter was dated in January 2016  and so it would be reasonable for Mr B to assume  it 
was the value of the whole transfer,  when it was only for the part of the transfer completed 
in November 2015.
When both transfers  had been  completed  James Hay confirmed to you the value  of the 
transfer. As the invested part of your pension was transferred on 9 November 2015, the 
value of your pension  was also taken from this date. This means that your pension  fund 
value on 9 November  2015 was £214,242.03.
When James  Hay sent a pension valuation dated  24 January 2016, it showed  a value of
£203,425.08. So, looking at this I can understand why Mr B thought  his pension had fallen 
by £10,816.95 in January  2016. Mr Bs pension value had fallen but the fall was between 
November 2015  and January 2016  and not between 15 January 2016 and 21 January 
2016.
Ref: DRN89595093I have also looked,  as the investigator did, at these  valuations against the number of units 
held in each fund and the unit price of the fund at the given dates, I cant say that these  
valuations arent  correct. So, Im not able to say that James Hay gave you incorrect 
information about the value of your pension fund on these dates.
Mr B says the performance of his investment between 2016  and 2018  was modest. The 
second period  of concern  seems to be from 1 October 2018, this was around the time Mr 
B had decided to transfer his pension from James  Hay to another  provider. I have noted 
the investigator has already provided Mr B with a detailed comparison of the unit values 
in each of his funds between 01 October  2018 and the transfer date of 7 December 2018. 
He also provided  a valuation report,  so I see no need to do so again, but Ive looked 
carefully at the valuations  and correspondence  from this date
James Hay provided a pension fund valuation for 1 October  2018,  it showed a value of
£213,856.41 for the investments, which was an increase in value.  The cash element  had 
also increased and stood at £40,832.70. So, the total value was £254,689.11. I have 
checked this valuation against  the number of units held in each fund and the unit price of 
the fund on 1 October 2018, and I havent  found anything to suggest that this value was 
incorrect.
Mr B decided to transfer his pension from James Hay and so a further valuation  was 
carried out. Although  the units had increased, due to rebates  being added as additional  
units, the unit price  had fallen. The cash element had increased slightly  following the 
receipt of dividends. The total value  as of 7 December 2018 was calculated  to be 
£236,295.82. I have  again checked  this valuation against the number of units  held in each 
fund and looked at the unit price of the fund on 7 December  2018 and again I havent 
found anything to suggest it isnt accurate.
I have looked  at James Hays charging structure and the charges applied to your 
SIPP. There was no charge for the transfer to James Hay but there was an 
administration fee of £195 when the SIPP  was opened. This has only been 
charged once, as Mr Bs SIPP qualified  for a nil annual  administration fee in the 
following years. The only other fees charged  are for the annual investment centre 
platform charge, which is taken monthly  from the SIPP. The charges are clearly set 
out in the Charging Schedule and I can James Hay notified Mr B of revised charges on 
May 2017. The charges dont appear to be excessive and so I cant say that James  
Hay has done  anything wrong  in applying these charges as they were explained at 
the outset.
I think its important to say James Hay isnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide advice, financial or otherwise.  Nor is James  Hay authorised or regulated 
to provide or manage investments.  The responsibility to make investment decisions and to 
monitor the performance of your Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) falls to Mr B and 
or any financial advisor he may appoint to do so.
From what  Ive seen the pension value has fluctuated due to the unit prices in the pension 
fund fluctuating. The nature of these  types of investments, as Mr B has said he is aware 
of, is that fluctuations are to be expected.  I havent found that James Hay has provided you 
any wrong valuations  or has done  anything wrong  when  administering  the pension.
Although, I can see the timing of some of the valuation statements and the period of time 
they cover  may have  caused some  confusion I find James Hay have explained and 
Ref: DRN89595094provided evidence,  to show the valuations  were correct. It follows, from what  I have seen, 
James Hay has correctly transferred your pension in and out, with the correct number of 
units being transferred  across.  I cant say that James Hay has done anything  wrong with 
the administration of your SIPP  and so I wont be asking to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8959509