K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Citibank Europe  plc wont refund a disputed transaction that he says he 
didnt authorise.  
background
Mr A says that on the 28 January  2018 he attempted to make  an online payment for £68.01 
to a merchant, Ill call N, to purchase  two coats.  But instead £82.66 was taken from his debit  
card. 
Mr A contacted Citibank  and asked them to refund the transaction. Citibank asked Mr A to 
confirm exactly what he was unhappy about  with the transaction  and he said hed also not 
received the goods. They  also provided  Mr A with a temporary credit of £82.66. 
Citibank applied for a chargeback under goods not received but this was rejected. And so 
they returned the credit. Mr A wasnt happy with Citibanks attempts to refund  his money, so 
complained. On investigating Citibank  said theyd raised the chargeback  but this had been 
rejected. And as theyd adhered to the policies and processes of his debit card they didnt 
uphold his complaint. 
Mr A wasnt  happy so complained to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr As complaint and thought that Citibank  didnt need  
to do anymore. He said as Citibank had raised  the chargeback theyd done what they 
needed to do to get Mr As funds returned.  
Mr A didnt accept this so it came  to me to decide. I wrote to Citibank and explained that I 
didnt think theyd done enough  in this case. I explained that I thought Citibank had raised  
the wrong chargeback code  or failed to ask Mr A to update his chargeback form with more  
details saying the goods hadnt been  received  and this meant Mr As chargeback  wasnt 
successful. Id seen  a copy of Mr As receipt and thought  that its more  likely than not Mr As 
coats werent received so his chargeback likely would have been successful. So I asked  
Citibank to refund the transaction to Mr A and to pay him £100 for the inconvenience 
caused.   
Mr A accepted my provisional thoughts, but Citibank didnt agree. They  explained Mr A 
completed the chargeback form but he didnt  tick transaction amount is incorrect  or 
goods/services not received so Citibank  werent  clear whether it was received or not. So 
they contacted  Mr A and he confirmed the goods  hadnt been received, and the bank 
submitted the chargeback on this basis. Citibank  said as theyd  raised it on the grounds  the 
goods werent received theyre not able to raise  a second one on the grounds of the 
transaction amount being incorrect.  And they believe theyve followed the correct  process. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so I reached the same conclusion I outlined above. 
Ref: DRN85569402Citibank have argued that they followed the correct  process in raising  the chargeback  but 
Im afraid I dont agree. Citibank raised a chargeback using goods not received but Mr As 
initial complaint was the merchant processed the wrong amount. 
The evidence Ive seen  shows that Citibank failed to raise the correct chargeback code  or 
failed to ask Mr A to update his complaint form with more  details advising the coats hadnt 
been received.  
The case  notes state the decision was based on the lack of proper documentation provided  
by the issuer (Citibank). When Mr A submitted his disputed transaction  form to Citibank he 
didnt say he hadnt received the goods instead  he said they  (the merchant) had taken more 
money than they said they would do!. I understand that Citibank have argued Mr A didnt 
tick the correct box to indicate the reason he was raising the chargeback. And I agree this is 
the case but Im satisfied  in ticking the other box  and explaining why he wanted  to dispute 
the transaction  Mr A explained what happened in sufficient detail for Citibank to follow  the 
correct procedure.  
As Citibank  didnt raise  the chargeback correctly, theres no evidence  to indicate whether 
Mr A received the goods  or not. But Im satisfied, based on the consistency of Mr As 
account, that its more  likely than not he didnt receive the goods. So its fair for Citibank to 
refund him. 
I think its clear  Mr A has suffered  some inconvenience from the impact of Citibanks actions. 
And Ill be asking Citibank to pay M A £100 in recognition of the inconvenience  caused.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above my final decision  is I uphold Mr As complaint. And I 
direct Citibank Europe plc to:
-Refund Mr A £82.66
-Pay Mr A £100 for the inconvenience caused 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8556940