K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complained that The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  Society Limited 
(NFU) refused to pay his tractor insurance  claim after a tractor  he sold turned out to be 
cloned. 
background
Mr M bought  a tractor  in 2014 and insured it a few days  later.  In 2015 Mr M sold the tractor 
and in 2018 received notification from solicitors that the current  owners had found out the 
tractor was cloned. This means it was a stolen vehicle where the identity numbers had been 
changed so it didnt appear  be stolen.  There had been changes  in owner since  Mr M sold the 
tractor but he was ultimately  held responsible for refunding the business he sold it to. Mr M 
was unable to recover his money from the business he bought it from as it has ceased 
trading. Mr M claimed on his policy with NFU. He thought it was reasonable NFU should 
cover his loss as it had insured the tractor. 
NFU turned down the claim as it said Mr M didnt  legally  own the tractor and it wasnt stolen 
from him while the policy was in force.  Mr M didnt think this was fair as hed taken care to 
make sure the tractor  was genuine. So he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into things but didnt  think Mr Ms claim was covered by the policy as 
the tractor hadnt  been  stolen from him. He also said the policy  hadnt  been in force when   
Mr M bought  the tractor.  
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators  view.  He said while  the tractor was insured after 
hed bought it, the loss hed experienced was at the time hed sold it. He also said that the 
policy covers all forms of accidental  loss apart  from the exclusions. And it was accidental 
loss he was claiming for and not theft.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand there has been discussion about  the date the tractor was insured as it was a 
few days after Mr M bought it. But I dont think I need to make a finding on that. Thats 
because I dont think the date the tractor was insured is relevant, as what  happened wasnt  
covered by an insured event under the policy.  
As is usual  with other types of policies we see Mr Ms policy doesnt cover  him for every 
eventuality. What NFU will cover is set out in its policy document. And for NFU to pay a 
claim the loss needs to arise from one of the insured events set out in the policy.
The introduction to Mr Ms policy says NFU provides  cover in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy for any accidental loss, injury or damage that occurs during the 
period of insurance. So this means  any accidental  loss has to be in line with the other terms 
and conditions of the policy. Mr M said the policy covers all accidental loss apart from whats  
set out in the exclusions, but I dont agree. The policy has headings for what it covers  and 
then an explanation of the cover under those headings. Examples of headings are damage 
to vehicle and liability to public. Accidental loss isnt one of those headings. Also,  the policy 
Ref: DRN88284462doesnt provide  cover  for buying or selling  a cloned vehicle. So that means buying a cloned  
tractor isnt an insured  event NFU covers. And I dont find that unusual.  
Mr M said the point he sold his tractor was the point of loss. But as he sold the tractor I dont 
think he lost it. While  he might have later lost money  resulting from the sale of the tractor 
thats a different matter and the policy doesnt cover him for that. 
Mr M provided a link to other decisions  our service has made about cloned  vehicles. Where 
theres been a theft of a cloned vehicle we sometimes think  its fair and reasonable for an 
insurer to pay a claim even though  the policyholder doesnt actually have an insurable 
interest in the vehicle.  But in these cases the cloned vehicles have been stolen from the 
policyholder. And thats not whats happened  here.
The terms and conditions  of the policy say NFU covers theft and defines theft as the 
attempted theft or taking of the vehicle without YOUR permission. There doesnt  seem to 
be any dispute that Mr M sold the tractor. So I dont think it could reasonably  be described as 
having been stolen from him. That means it isnt covered by the theft term in the policy.
I appreciate how frustrating this is for Mr M as he appears to have taken care when  buying  
the tractor to make sure it was a genuine  sale and seems to have lost the money  through no 
fault of his own. However there isnt any term in the policy that covers whats happened  and 
NFU had no part in the purchase or sale of the tractor. As such I dont think its unreasonable 
for NFU to have turned down the claim. I can see NFU also referred to Mr M to the insurer  
that provides his legal  expenses cover to see if they could help which I think was 
reasonable. 
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M was hoping  for. But Im not going to interfere with 
NFUs decision to turn down the claim as it was in line with the terms and conditions of his 
policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8828446