K820x#14complaint
Mr F says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr F bought  the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied  for the loan 
and PPI policy during  a meeting. 
Lloyds doesnt  have the exact details of the loan and PPI. But it says,  based on assumed 
figures from the time of sale, the policys  one-off upfront premium wouldve been  around 
£575.40. This was paid in advance by being  added to the loan (a single premium) where it 
attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan was repayable  over an 18 month  term 
and the policy term matched  that of the loan. The monthly repayment for the PPI was around 
£36 and the repayment for the loan and PPI was around £224.87.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr F for accident,  sickness, unemployment and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mr Fs monthly loan repayment for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
Mr F has provided  his employment details  from 1995. However, the sale took place in 1997. 
We havent received  further information  from Mr F about his circumstances in 1997. So Ive 
relied on what the records Lloyds has from the time of sale say. These  show  that at the time, 
Mr F was employed as a steel  worker. I dont know what employee  benefits he was entitled 
to, so I have looked  at the complaint on the basis that Mr F wouldve received basic  statutory 
sick and redundancy  pay. Mr F hasnt told us of any other means he had at the time. Mr F 
said that he was generally in good health  at the time, but that he had a head injury in 1981. 
Mr F says he fractured  his nose and since this time he suffers  from nose bleeds.   
Lloyds has confirmed that the loan and PPI ended in 1998. 
Mr Fs representative  has made lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Fs representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr F wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Fs  
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr F about the poor value;
 
Ref: DRN84931272The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr F  and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr F disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Fs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Fs complaint
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1998. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN84931273I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Fs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr Fs complaint.  
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr F with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr F sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr F, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr F suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr F and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Fs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mr F know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN84931274Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the application form that was completed at the 
time Mr F took out the loan and PPI. This is unfortunate but isnt surprising given how long 
ago the sale took place,  and businesses arent  expected  to keep records  indefinitely.  Lloyds  
has provided a sample application form which it says is similar, if not the same as the one 
that would  have been completed when Mr F was sold the loan and PPI. Looking  at this 
sample I can see the cost of the loan is detailed  and there is a separate column  which 
details the costs of the: Optional  Loan  Repayment Protection. There is also a box beneath 
this which  asks the customer if they want  the PPI and if they want  the premium advanced as 
part of the loan. There is the option to tick Yes  or No to this cover.  I wouldve expected Mr 
F to read over this form and raise any questions  he had at the time before signing  it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr F knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice to Mr F during  the sale.  Mr F hasnt said whether he was 
given advice during the sale. Lloyds says it provided  him with advice so Ive looked at the 
complaint on this basis as it places higher  requirements on Lloyds.    
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr F with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr F. It seems Mr F cant remember clearly  what happened  and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about Mr 
Fs financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence  to show  the adviser took steps  
to establish whether Mr F would have been caught  by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds  considered whether Mr F had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr F given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr F, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr F met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr F had a need for the policy  he would  not have received any sick pay if he was 
unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and he 
didnt have any savings he could fall back on. The policy  would have helped  Mr F 
manage the consequences  were  he unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr F.
Ref: DRN84931275-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr F. There was 
nothing about  Mr Fs employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. Regarding  pre-existing  medical conditions,  Mr F has told us about  a 
head injury he had in 1981.  Mr F says he had a broken nose and this resulted  in him 
having frequent nose bleeds. This injury occurred  many  years before the sale of the 
PPI and based on what Mr F has told us it doesnt  seem he had to take time off due 
to this injury in the intervening years. So I think the PPI was suitable as it wouldve  
provided useful  cover  for any unrelated health issues. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
-Although a pro-rata refund  would not have been  paid if Mr F cancelled the policy 
early, the loan term was relatively short and there is nothing  to suggest (at the time) 
that Mr F had plans to repay  the loan early. The purpose of the loan was not debt 
consolidation or anything else which might suggest a need to repay the loan early,  or 
that this was likely to happen.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr F sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr F was given a broad description of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr F was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr F would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was. Looking at the sample  application  I think its likely that Mr F 
knew that the single premium  being  added to the loan was £575.40 and that there  was a 
monthly cost of around £36. However, I cant see that the interest  on the premium or the 
total cost of the PPI wouldve been set out separately for Mr F to see. 
The evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient information 
about the actual monthly  benefit, and as explained above, the interest applied on the 
premium and its total cost to Mr F before he agreed to take out the policy.  It also doesnt  tell 
us if sufficient information was given to Mr F about the cancellation  terms or about the 
exclusions or limitations in the policy before he agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr F Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr F. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr F all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Fs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
Ref: DRN84931276PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Fs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Fs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr F about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Fs representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr F has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
What effect did Lloydss shortcomings  have  on Mr F? To what extent  did Mr F  suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr F. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr F suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr F would have 
still taken out the policy,  had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr F, I have  found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr F has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Mr F would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr F says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr F had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised him that there was a suitable  
product he could buy that would protect  his loan payments in the event he was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
Ref: DRN84931277product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Fs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
As Ive also already explained, although  Mr F was given some  information about the cost of 
the policy, Lloyds  didnt provide all the details about the overall cost of the PPI once interest 
was applied. The information about other aspects of the policy,  such as cancellation terms 
and limitations and exclusions also wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr F knew  he was borrowing the money to 
pay for the policy and that it would cost around £36 a month, it doesnt appear Lloyds told 
him the total cost of the policy over the loan term including the interest.  
Having said that, given the loan was relatively small  and interest  would only accrue  over 18 
months, and the interest would not have made the policy cost significantly more than Mr F 
realised, I dont think it likely the missing  cost information would have affected Mr Fs 
decision to buy the policy in his circumstances. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr F would  have found  the cost unacceptable  if he had been 
given all of the cost information during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr F would get back  in return  
in the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Fs expectations about 
what the policy would pay in the event  of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan 
repayment) were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr F thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions which Mr F knew  about or 
reasonably shouldve known of on the start date, or for which  he had received 
treatment for in the 12 months  before the start date and which recurs again within 12 
months of the start date.  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr F 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy did not provide a pro-rata  refund if Mr F repaid the loan early and the 
policy was cancelled,  so it wouldve been more expensive for Mr F to have done so; 
and
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr F be unable to 
do his own job or any other  job bearing in mind his knowledge and training.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr F pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover,  
when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr F from taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Fs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
Ref: DRN84931278insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr F says he had a medical  condition  when 
the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt  have  provided cover  had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better  information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing  to it. I say this because the injury Mr F had happened many years  
before of the PPI. Based on what Mr F has told us it doesnt seem Mr F had any significant 
on-going health issues  because of this injury and he doesnt  appear to have taken time off 
work because of it in the intervening years. And I havent seen any evidence to suggest  he 
wouldve been caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions. Mr F also didnt likely need, 
and theres no evidence to suggest he intended,  to repay  the loan early. So, I still think he 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy doesnt  make  any specific reference to claims relating to back  or mental health 
conditions, meaning  it didnt place any additional  restrictions or more  onerous evidential 
requirements in the event  of a claim on those grounds than would have applied  to any other  
disability claim. And I think  its unlikely  Mr F would have expected to make  a disability claim 
on the policy without  first providing  some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr F had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any other job bearing in mind his knowledge and training, it might have played into his 
thinking about what he would have done.  And I accept it may have given him pause  for 
thought  although its possible he may not have  been overly  concerned  given that if Mr F 
was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances that he would  be 
able to take up what I consider the terms to mean  any other job would also, in all 
probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr F would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences  were  Mr F made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr F 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Fs representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) make  
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. 
In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be presumed Mr F would not have 
bought the PPI he bought  unless , in the particular circumstances of the complaint, there is 
evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr Fs 
Ref: DRN84931279circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr F 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr F believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr F in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr F compensation, as that would put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Fs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  But this doesnt  persuade  
me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already  set out I dont  think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr F in a 
better position than if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020. 
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8493127