K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains that since late 2013  National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has failed to 
deal correctly with fraudulent  activity on his account, leaving him with defaults  on two 
accounts that have been  incorrectly  reported to credit reference agencies. 
background 
In May 2018  Mr D complained to us about his dealings with NatWest  in relation to two 
accounts he had with it. He said that money  had been  fraudulently paid into his account with 
NatWest and hed reported it. He says NatWest told him it would rectify everything, open a 
new account for him, and resolve  the issues that had left him with a £1500 overdraft. But 
years later this still hadnt been done. And every time Mr D contacted  NatWest  to try to get 
the issues fixed it said it had no accounts in his name or information about him. This had 
caused him enormous stress and anxiety,  which had exacerbated a health  condition. 
As it appeared he hadnt yet complained to NatWest, we forwarded his complaint to it. 
NatWest said that due to the passage of time it was unable to find linked accounts for him so 
it couldnt resolve his complaint. 
Mr D provided  us with information showing that he had a default  recorded by NatWest  on 
two accounts. One was for an account  opened  in 2011. Its date of default  was recorded as 
31 October 2014 and the default  balance was shown as £1,200. The second account was 
opened in January 2014. Its date of default was shown as 30 September  2014 with a default 
balance of £1,409.
NatWest was able to locate some  information  concerning the two accounts held by NatWest 
that had been defaulted. It said the first account had been correctly defaulted as Mr D had 
broken a repayment plan. But it said it was prepared to clear the outstanding balance of 
£1,409 from the second  account and remove the default from Mr Ds credit file. This was 
because it couldnt  explain  why the account had the balance it did as the archive  notes 
werent clear. And it didnt  retain  phone  calls from that long ago. 
In relation to account one, our adjudicator said that in late November 2013 a payment of 
£2,300 had been made into the account, and that seemed to be the fraudulent payment. But 
on 2 December only £1,337.32 was debited  from Mr Ds account and sent back to the bank 
the payment had come from. So she didnt think NatWest had debited more  than it should  
have from the account. She said that after this the account was around £1,500 in credit  but 
by the end of December,  because of point of sale transactions and cash  withdrawals, the 
account was £749.77 overdrawn.  So she couldnt say that the overdrawn balance of that 
account was because of the fraud.  
She said that account two was opened  in January 2014, and the overdrawn balance  of 
account one was transferred to it. This was common practice where  a customer was a victim 
of fraud. At that point  account one should  have been  closed. But for some reason it wasnt.  
Our adjudicator said that shortly afterwards the amount of £749.77 was debited from account 
two and credited  to account one. This left account  two with a debit balance of £1,699.54  and 
account one with a credit balance of £755.77. Since account one was open, these funds 
were available for spending,  and some of those  funds were spent. This meant that when the 
bank tried to reverse the second transaction for £749.77  it was only able to debit £355.77  
from account one and credit that to account  two. 
Ref: DRN83519302Around this time NatWests notes show Mr D was in contact with it. Account one was the 
account his salary went into and a temporary credit of £355.77  was given on that account 
which was reversed in early February 2014  after Mr D was paid. 
There was further  spending  on the account, leaving it overdrawn. On 13 February NatWest 
transferred £403.66  to a repayment account. Our adjudicator explained that a repayment 
account is a temporary  account to which overdrawn amounts are transferred so that the 
amount can be paid back under a repayment plan without additional charges. If the plan isnt 
complied with, the amount goes back to the original account and is subject  to interest and 
charges. 
Mr D had told us that he had no debt with the bank, and had no idea what  a repayment 
account was. But our adjudicator said that his records showed  hed had one in 2012 and that 
the NatWest notes showed  hed been  in regular  contact  with it and knew  what action it had 
taken. 
From February to May there  were  two repayment  plans  in place, both of which were not fully 
complied with, and resulted in balances being  debited back to account one. Mr D was also 
given some temporary credits to meet his commitments. 
Our adjudicator said that on 30 June salary was paid into the account that left it £199.70 
overdrawn. However the banks notes show that Mr D asked for two payments of £500  to 
pay his bills and this was never repaid, leaving him £1,199.70 overdrawn. 
Taking all of this into account  our adjudicator  thought that although  NatWest  had made  
errors, it had paid him compensation of £250 on 6 December  2013 and £132 on 24 April 
2014. And hed benefitted from the initial fraudulent payment as only £1,332.32  of the 
£2,300 was debited from his account, leaving him with £962.77.  She was satisfied that the 
overdraft of £1,199.70 was built up due to spending, not errors by the bank. So she didnt 
think it would  be fair to ask NatWest  to remove the default or write off the debt.  
In relation to Account Two, NatWest had offered to waive the debt and remove  the default, 
as it couldnt fully explain how the debt built up. Our adjudicator thought this was fair and 
reasonable. She provided Mr D with a copy of his bank statements since  January 2012 
which NatWest had provided, so Mr D could see how she had arrived at her conclusions. 
Mr D wasnt happy that NatWest had provided  bank statements going back as far as it did  
he said they werent relevant to his complaint. He said it was a breach of the General Data  
Protection Regulation (the GDPR)and he wouldnt take any further action if he were  offered 
£1,500 compensation. And he still wanted both accounts cleared and removed from his 
credit file. 
Mr D said that the stress of dealing with NatWest had exacerbated a health condition, and 
hed been caused further stress by being repeatedly told it had no information.  Hed been  
prevented from obtaining  a mortgage. Hed be prepared to accept £1,000  for this.
But our adjudicator still thought her opinion was fair. And she didnt think  thered been a data 
breach. Mr D had agreed to our service obtaining  information from NatWest. And she 
thought the statements from 2012  were relevant. 
Mr D disagreed. He also said hed had a health condition from June 2014  onwards that 
required surgery in September 2014  that affected  his memory. 
Ref: DRN83519303The complaint came to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr D has experienced a 
great deal of stress trying to resolve  the issues with his accounts and that his health has 
been affected. Im sorry to hear that and Ive no doubt thats the case.  But Im afraid  Ill have 
to disappoint him, as Im not going  to tell NatWest  to do anything  more that what it has 
offered. 
The background above shows  the facts of the case as set out in our adjudicators opinion on 
the complaint.  Ive looked carefully at the bank  statements and NatWests notes and I agree 
our adjudicators outline of the facts  is accurate, so I wont  repeat them.  And I note that Mr D 
hasnt disputed them either, although  he does  dispute what  action  NatWest  should take, and 
whether there has been a breach of the GDPR  by both our service and NatWest. 
Mr D wants both accounts cleared and the defaults removed from his record,  and he wants 
compensation. 
I dont need to consider account two, other  than to say that I agree that NatWests offer to 
waive the debt and remove the default  is fair, and I will tell it to do this in my final decision 
below. 
In relation to account one, theres  no doubt  that a complicated series of events led to the 
debit balance being accrued. But like our adjudicator, Im satisfied that the £1,200 debit 
balance of the account represents spending by Mr D. So I dont think  it would be fair to tell 
NatWest to waive the balance and remove the default, as Mr D has had the benefit of the 
funds. 
Mr D says hes been trying to get the situation sorted out for years,  but NatWest keeps 
saying it has no information. I think that its quite likely  Mr D may have received this 
response, given  NatWests original response to the complaint forwarded by us in which 
NatWest said it had no records. I appreciate that must have been stressful for Mr D. But Im 
not going to ask NatWest to pay further  compensation. Im satisfied that as a result of the 
fraud hes had the benefit of a windfall  of £962.77 which  wasnt  clawed back  from the 
fraudulent payment. And hes received compensation payments for the banks handling of 
the matter in December 2013  and April 2014. So taking all of this into account, I dont think  
NatWest need  do anything more. 
Mr D also says that both NatWest and our service have breached the GDPR in relation to 
bank statements provided by NatWest, which he says shouldnt  have been provided. Im not 
able to deal with that in relation  to NatWest in this decision, as it wasnt  part of his original 
complaint to us. Mr D is free to raise  it with NatWest directly, and then bring  his complaint to 
us if he isnt satisfied  with the response. Mr D is also welcome to complain that weve  
breached the GDPR to the Information Commissioners  Office,  as hes suggested  he will. 
But I cant deal with it in this complaint, as this decision is concerned with NatWests actions, 
and not our service.  Im sorry if this disappoints him. 
Ref: DRN83519304my final decision
My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must  waive  the default balance  of 
£1,409 and remove the default from Mr Ds credit record. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8351930