K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Aviva  Insurance Limited turned down a cancellation claim made 
under their travel insurance policy. 
background 
Mr and Mrs W have  travel insurance provided  by Aviva through their packaged bank 
account. They were  due to go on holiday in September 2018,  however they cancelled  this 
after Mr W was diagnosed  with a heart  problem  and advised not to travel.  They submitted a 
cancellation claim to Aviva.  
Aviva turned down  the claim. It said the claim was excluded under the policy as Mr W had a 
pre-existing heart problem, which it hadnt  been  aware of. 
Mr and Mrs W complained about  this. They said theyd made claims in 2011 relating to 
Mr Ws heart, and those  claims  had been covered. 
Aviva explained  it hadnt  provided  the cover  in 2011  - this had been  provided by a different 
insurer. It said when it took over the policy in 2017, Mr and Mrs W should have contacted  it 
for a medical screening. If theyd done  this, Aviva would have advised them that they 
couldnt have  cover for Mr Ws heart problem. 
Unhappy with Avivas  response,  Mr and Mrs W brought a complaint to this service. They 
said their bank hadnt told them the insurer had changed for their travel insurance, so they 
hadnt been aware they needed to call Aviva  for a medical screening check. 
I issued a provisional decision on 8 April 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy  says:
1 There is no cover for any claim arising directly or indirectly from the following.
a)Any medical condition  you had when the bank account was opened or any trip 
was booked (whichever  is later) unless it is shown as an Accepted  condition  or 
we have been told about it and we have accepted it
I understand Mr and Mrs W have held their bank  account for a number  of years,  however the 
trip was booked in September 2017.
Mr Ws GP completed  a medical  certificate  for Aviva. She said Mr W started  experiencing 
shortness of breath in May 2018.  Investigations showed he had severe  stenosis, which 
prevented him from travelling. The GP confirmed that Mr W had experienced this condition 
before  in July 2011. The GP also said Mr W had been seen  annually  by a cardiologist. 
The GP later provided some further  information  about Mr Ws heart problem. She explained 
he had a cardiac catheterisation in 2011, with a diagnosis of coronary artery disease. 
Its apparent from the above information that Mr W had heart  problems before the trip was 
booked. This wasnt an accepted  condition  under  the policy,  and Aviva hadnt  been  told 
about it and accepted it in writing. That means  Aviva was entitled  to turn down the claim 
under the above policy exclusion. 
Ref: DRN83565432Mr and Mrs W told Aviva theyd made successful claims in 2011  relating to Mr Ws heart 
problem. However, Avivas confirmed that it took over the travel  insurance cover under Mr 
and Mrs Ws packaged bank account in 2017.  Therefore, when Mr and Mrs W made their 
claims in 2011, these were covered by another  insurer. 
Avivas explained  that under the policy with the previous  insurer, a customer  could pay a 
premium to have a condition covered for a year. This was referred to as an upgrade. 
Before the policy migrated over to Aviva in 2017,  a letter was sent to customers by their 
bank. Aviva has been able to provide  us with a copy of the dummy letter. This explained that 
the previous policy  and any upgrades would be cancelled and replaced with new cover  
provided by Aviva. The letter also explained  that Aviva wouldnt automatically renew 
upgrades, and the customer  would be sent a renewal invite  at least  21 days before their 
upgrade expired. 
Aviva has explained  it still has records of the policies it received from the previous  insurer,  
which includes details of all the upgrades  that were live as of the date the cover migrated 
over to Aviva. Its confirmed theres no mention of Mr and Mrs W in those records. Aviva  also 
explains that it agreed to honour any existing upgrades until the first renewal, and at renewal 
it invited customers with upgrades to undergo  a medical screening  check.  
I havent seen  any information from Mr and Mrs W to show that theyd paid for an upgrade  
under their previous policy in order to have  cover for Mr Ws heart condition. Although I 
appreciate the previous insurer covered their claims made in 2011,  presumably thats  
because Mr Ws heart  problem  was only diagnosed  in 2011 and therefore wasnt pre-
existing. 
Mr and Mrs W say they called  their bank in 2016  to tell it that Mr W was taking aspirin.  They 
say they were told as he was taking this for preventative reasons, they werent required to 
pay an additional premium. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs W spoke with their bank or the previous insurer in 2016 - I havent 
seen any information  relating to this conversation, so I cant be sure what was exactly 
discussed. But based on what Aviva has said about  the upgrades, it seems Mr and Mrs W 
didnt have cover under  the previous policy for Mr Ws heart problem. 
As Mr and Mrs W didnt  have an existing upgrade under their previous policy, Aviva didnt 
specifically invite them to undergo a medical screening check  at the first renewal. However,  I 
see the policy terms do say under the heading  Do I need to tell you about any medical  
conditions? that if an insured person has a medical condition, and its not shown on the list 
of Accepted conditions,  they would need to contact Aviva before booking a trip, and may 
need to purchase  a medical upgrade. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  call Aviva before booking their trip. However, I see that Aviva did carry 
out a retrospective screening based on Mr Ws health in 2017,  and this showed that it 
wouldnt have offered him cover for his condition in any event. 
conclusions
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were made aware that Aviva had taken over their travel  
insurance cover in 2017. 
Ref: DRN83565433Based on the available evidence, it appears  Mr and Mrs W didnt have cover under their 
previous policy  for Mr Ws heart problem. Because of this, Mr W wasnt specifically  invited to 
undergo a medical screening at the first renewal  after Aviva  took over the policy.  
Nevertheless, the policy terms do make it clear  that if the insured has a medical condition, 
they should tell Aviva about it. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  tell Aviva about  Mr Ws heart problem, which means that under the 
policy terms, Aviva was entitled to turn down the claim. 
Despite this, Aviva did carry out a retrospective  medical screening check, which I think was 
fair. If the outcome of this had been that Aviva would have offered Mr W cover for his heart 
condition upon  payment  of an additional  premium, then I may have asked Aviva to settle the 
claim proportionately on a fair and reasonable basis. However,  the retrospective screening  
showed that Aviva wouldnt  have offered Mr W cover for his heart condition,  even  if he had 
called it for a medical screening check before booking the trip. 
Consequently, and whilst I recognise  my decision  will disappoint Mr and Mrs W, I think  it was 
reasonable for Aviva to turn down the claim. 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. Both 
parties responded to say they had no further  comments. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  However, since  neither party has 
provided any further comments for me to consider,  I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 May 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8356543