K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that One Call Insurance  Services  Limited (One Call) automatically  renewed 
her home insurance policy against her wishes. 
background
In September  2017, Mrs K bought a home insurance policy  through  One Call who were  
acting a broker in the transaction. In August  2018, they sent her a renewal notice. Mrs K 
decided she didnt wish to renew the policy through them  and bought insurance with another  
insurer. Mrs K says she called One Call to say she didnt want  the policy and cancelled the 
direct debit. But they wrote to Mrs K on 12 September  2018  thanking her for renewing her 
insurance. 
On 2 October 2018, One Call wrote to Mrs K to say as there had been a problem with her 
direct debit, the policy would be cancelled in a week unless they heard from her by 
telephone before then. They referred  to cancellation  charges which  had been set out in the 
information theyd  sent her previously.  As no contact was made, One Call wrote again on 
10 October 2018 to say that the policy had been  cancelled. They  said there was a balance  to 
pay of £163.06  for the time the policy was on cover  and various charges and fees.  
One Call say that once the balance was passed  to their recovery team,  Mrs K provided 
evidence of her other insurance policy. One Call passed it on to the underwriter theyd 
placed her cover with. The underwriter  asked for a dual insurance form to be completed by 
her new insurer in order for the policy to be backdated. Mrs K told One Call that her new 
insurer wouldnt do this, but One Call say that they spoke to them and had been  told theyd 
complete the form if Mrs K asked them to. 
In response to her complaint, One Call wrote to Mrs K in May 2019  and agreed  to waive 
some of the fees and charges so the balance reduced to £77.07 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs K was unhappy with One Calls offer,  so she referred her complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She said One Call had sent renewal notices  to Mrs K during 
August 2018 which said the policy would renew  automatically  unless she called them  to 
cancel. Our investigator  acknowledged that Mrs K said she phoned One Call to cancel the 
policy, but having reviewed One Calls  system notes, our investigator could find no evidence 
of such a call taking  place. 
Our investigator said One Call had only received  notice of the cancellation of Mrs Ks direct  
debit on 1 October 2018  after the renewal  had taken place. Shed checked the calculations 
made of the sum outstanding against  what the terms and conditions of the policy said and 
found it had been calculated correctly.  Our investigator felt One Calls offer to reduce the 
sum to £77.07  was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
One Call accepted our investigators assessment, but Mrs K didnt. As there  was no 
agreement, Mrs Ks complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision to be made.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN81880922Theres no dispute here that One Call sent Mrs K renewal notices in August 2018  and that 
Mrs K should telephone  the business if she didnt want the policy  to go ahead. Mrs K said 
she did so, but One Call say theres no record of that in their system. In my view this is the 
key event from which the rest of the complaint flows.  
I cant know for certain whether Mrs K did phone  One Call to cancel the policy.  Where there 
are conflicting versions of events as there are here, I have to base my findings on the 
balance of probabilities; that is what I think is most  likely  to have happened taking account of 
the circumstances of the complaint and the evidence provided by both parties. 
In this case, while Mrs K says she phoned  One Call, Ive seen no supporting evidence that 
she did. But I have seen  system notes provided  by One Call which  show no contact between  
the renewal notice going out and the start of the policy in September 2018. The next action 
Ive seen is advice  of the direct debit issues in early  October 2018   after the renewal had 
taken place. 
I can see in the system  notes details of discussions she had with One Call when she 
encountered problems  shortly after she bought  the first policy  in 2017. If a call had been  
made to stop the renewal,  Id expect to see it recorded in One Calls notes which would have  
been made at the time. Given that theyd recorded  notes  of previous discussions in 2017,  I 
think its more likely  than not that One Call would  have done the same in this instance. 
Thats not to say I dont believe Mrs K when she says she phoned One Call, but I have no 
evidence to support  that she did. So on balance, I dont think I have enough to say that 
either Mrs K made the call, or that One Call failed to act on it. It follows  that I dont think  it 
was wrong for One Call to renew the policy.
Ive looked at how they arrived at the balance they asked Mrs K to pay, and compared it to 
the information theyd sent to her. It seems to me that the balance of £163.06  was correct. 
One Call suggested  to Mrs K that she should  contact her new insurer to complete the dual 
insurance form. Under this process, insurers covering the same  risk, often agree to refund 
half of the premiums each  for the time theyre  both liable. This usually means  the consumer 
isnt left with a bill to pay. But from the email exchanges Ive seen  between  Mrs K and 
One Call, she seemed reluctant to get her new insurers involved. While I understand the 
reasons she gave One Call for that, I think the request for her to do so was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
I note that One Call have agreed  to reduce the balance theyre requesting from Mrs K to 
£77.07 as a gesture of goodwill. For the reasons set out above, I think this is a fair way to 
resolve Mrs Ks complaint.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8188092