K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc (Santander) pursued him for a debt that 
he never took out. 
background 
Mr M says in 2012 Santander began to pursue him for a debt in relation to a car finance 
agreement (Agreement  A). He says that despite  telling Santander it wasnt  his debt (and 
receiving apologies  and reassurances it wouldnt happen again) it continued to contact him 
about it over many years. During 2017  it sold the debt to a third party.  Mr M says that he had 
visits from bailiffs in relation to the debt and was summoned to court  about  it in early 2018.  
Santander responded to Mr Ms initial complaint in April 2018. In summary,  it said:
in 2012 it instructed  a collection agent  to trace  its customer, but because of Mr Ms 
similar personal details it wrongly  located him and pursued him for the debt
soon after Mr M contacted Santander  and told it they had the wrong person 
it apologised and said it wouldnt continue to send him letters about the debt
unfortunately it continued  to contact Mr M about  the debt due to further  errors when 
tracing their customer
its collection agent advised it that its customer and Mr M had their credit  files merged 
by the credit reference agency (CRA) which caused the tracing errors and that it 
was aware that Mr M had applied to the CRA  for a notice  of correction
it acknowledges that Mr M was requested to attend court  about the matter  and 
apologised for the distress and inconvenience  this caused
it wanted to offer Mr M £1,050 in recognition of its errors
Our investigator looked into the matter. In summary, he said that Santanders  actions had a 
substantial impact on Mr M and the offer was not sufficient to cover  this. In considering 
everything that has happened he considered that Santander should  increase the 
compensation payment to £2,000 in recognition of the degree of trouble and upset caused. 
He also said that Santander should take all necessary action to fix any negative reporting  to 
Mr Ms credit file in relation to this credit  agreement it was wrongfully pursuing  him for.
Santander agreed to the recommendations of the investigator. However,  Mr M did not think  
this compensation  went far enough for the level of distress and inconvenience he has 
experienced over the years he has been  pursued for the debt. 
In July 2019 Mr M said he was still receiving  letters  about the debt and said there  was no 
guarantee that he will not be pursued  in the future. He provided the letters  to this service.
In light of these  developments Santander offered £2,500 in full and final settlement of the 
issue. However, Mr M was not confident that the problems would not continue  and felt he 
should be entitled to more  compensation than this. He asked for the matter  to be considered 
again by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 26 March 2020.  In this I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ref: DRN86969742Santander initially questioned whether Mr M was eligible  to complain to this service  about 
this matter. The investigator said he was eligible and Santander did not challenge this 
further. As the jurisdiction does not appear  to be in dispute I am going to move on to 
consider the merits  of this case.
who is at fault?
I am not considering whether Mr M should  have  been pursued  for the debt in relation to 
Agreement A. I say this because  Santander  has confirmed Mr M is not the person who took 
out Agreement A. 
There appears no dispute that Mr M has been  wrongfully pursued.  However,  Santander has 
indicated that it might not be wholly  to blame  for what has happened.  And for that reason I 
consider it necessary to cover this point as it will (to a certain extent)  affect how I decide  
what is fair and reasonable for Santander  to do to put things right.
Santander has indicated  that the CRA  has merged two records together  (namely Mr M and 
its customer) in error which caused  it to identify and pursue Mr M.
This service has looked into what happened  and it is fair to say the situation is not entirely 
clear. The CRA strongly denies that it has merged  two records  together  by mistake (what  it 
calls a matching issue). It maintains that it provided a debt trace for Santander with a list of 
possible matches for Santanders  customer (people  with similar details).  But it was for 
Santander to carry out the appropriate  due diligence  to ensure they had the correct person.
This service has asked Santander  to shed more light on its attempts to trace  the actual 
debtor for Agreement A and the specifics of the process followed. However, Santander has 
said that it is not in receipt of the documentation  of how [its agent] trace consumers. And 
despite this service contacting the agent,  it hasnt in my view provided persuasive evidence  
that the problems originated with the CRA  rather than its own tracing activity. 
It is fair to say there  is some grey area as to what actually went wrong  here. And I 
acknowledge there have been ongoing  concerns with how Mr M has come to be linked with 
addresses and other credit agreements that are not his. I note that Mr M has been  
associated with other accounts  and details which he says are nothing  to do with him. It 
appears he discovered this when  he was applying for a mortgage around  2015 and 
contacted the CRA to say he believed  he had possibly  been a victim of identity fraud.
So, I acknowledge the wider issues with Mr Ms credit file possibly caused  by other parties. 
However, as the original  creditor seeking  to recover the balance  of Agreement  A from its 
customer the onus  should fairly be on Santander  to persuasively show  it wasnt  at fault for 
the initial mix up. And I dont think it has done  that here. I can also see that while Mr M does 
have the same first and surname to its customer (and the same date of birth),  his middle 
name is different.  So it seems that Santander (or its agent) didnt do enough  due diligence  
on the initial trace to ensure it had the correct person from the outset.  Had more care been 
taken it appears likely that Mr M would not have been contacted in the first place.
Aside from the technical reasons for the original mix up, I note that at a fairly  early stage 
Santander was on notice from Mr M that he wasnt its customer.  From that point onwards 
Santander and its agent clearly did not do enough to ensure the matter was rectified  as it 
continued to chase Mr M for the debt. 
Ref: DRN86969743Mr M appears to have continued  to engage with Santander. He says that each time he 
received a letter about the debt he phoned Santander to prove his identify and show he was 
not the debtor for Agreement A. What  he says is credible and detailed.  And in the 
circumstances it appears  especially unfair  that (despite Santanders  reassurances)  he 
continued to receive  communication  about  the debt.   
I also note that Mr M was not only receiving letters about the debt.  The fact he had debt 
collection agents attend his house and had to attend  court  about it are particularly 
aggravating factors here.
I think Santanders decision  to sell the debt to a third party,  after several  years  of pursuing 
Mr M in error, was unfair. It knew the history  and was arguably in a better position to take 
steps to ensure that Mr M was no longer  contacted. I note that after the sale the third party 
debt purchaser  also continued to chase  Mr M in error. And despite  Santander  no longer 
owning the debt at this point I think in these particular circumstances it needs to take at least 
some responsibility for the errors that followed as a direct  result of its decision to sell a debt 
in this situation. 
what is the impact on Mr M?
Mr M has described how this matter has affected him. He says it has caused him a great 
deal of frustration,  anxiety and stress and has disrupted his health and his home  life with his 
partner. 
I have no doubt  that being  chased for a relatively sizable debt (around £6,000+) over many 
years would cause  a great deal of problems, like those he has described.  And I note that 
having debt collectors  come to your home and receiving court summons would 
understandably cause anxiety, especially when  Mr M had previously  received reassurances  
from Santander that it was going to stop. Mr M has described the details of the home visit, 
he says it was early one morning and caused  considerable  embarrassment, stress and 
upset. He says You cannot appreciate the stress, upset and embarrassment experienced 
when one turns up at your door . I can certainly  see how this would be the case.
Mr M has also had to attend court in an attempt to show he wasnt  the debtor. He says he 
was hand delivered a court summons with his name  on it but a different address.  He writes. 
I was told if I didnt attend court there would be a warrant  out for my arrest. I cant begin to 
tell you the worry  and anguish I went through upon hearing this. I can see this must have 
been extremely stressful for him. 
Mr M has described the long term impact  of being pursued in this way. He says he cannot  
relax in his own home and every time someone comes to the door he and his partner are on 
edge in case it is more debt collectors or court summons.
I also note that fairly recently (and despite previous agreement by Santander that Mr M was 
not the debtor)  Mr M had continued to receive  debt collection  letters from a law firm acting 
on behalf of the debt purchaser which now owns the debt. This was understandably  
especially disturbing for Mr M considering what he had already  been through  and the tone of 
this correspondence  threatening  court action. And as I have said before, although  Santander 
no longer own the debt I think it is fair that in this particular case it take at least some 
responsibility for these  more recent  events because  of the circumstances in which it chose  to 
sell the debt on.
Ref: DRN86969744Mr M has said this matter  has affected his credit  report and made it difficult  to take out a 
mortgage. I note there were other  issues with Mr Ms credit  report around this time relating to 
numerous accounts which Mr M says were  not his and caused him to file reports with 
various agencies  including  the CRA. And I think there are also a lot of variables when 
applying for a mortgage. I also dont see any obviously adverse information on his credit 
report from 2015 in relation  to Agreement A although I acknowledge there is some link by 
association on there.  Overall, I am not persuaded that Santanders  actions solely caused the 
issues he was having getting further  credit. But I do acknowledge  that Santanders actions 
have likely contributed  to incorrect information appearing his credit file which  might  have had 
a wider impact on his ability to get credit. 
Mr M has said he had to subscribe to credit services as a result of this issue  costing him £60 
a month  for 12 months. He has not provided  receipts for this, and I think  there are other 
reasons why Mr M might have wanted  to subscribe  to these services (including  the wider  
concerns about  identity  theft). But in deciding how to put things right I do acknowledge that 
part of the reason he might want to sign up to service like these would be the actions of 
Santander. 
Ref: DRN86969745Mr Ms representative has explained  in detail about his health  concerns. For example, she 
says he has erratic blood pressure, is having anxiety attacks at night and it is affecting his 
quality of sleep.  There is no medical evidence confirming the extent of Mr Ms health 
concerns and possible causes, and Mr Ms representative has described other  things that 
are contributing to his stress. However,  I have considered the credible testimony  provided  
and I accept this situation  around  Agreement A has likely caused Mr M significant distress 
and impacted his wellbeing in its own right. I think that any award against Santander should 
take this into account. 
I also think the worry Mr M has experienced has gradually got worse  over time and that even 
if infrequent, each new contact over this extensive time period has contributed.  I note Mr Ms 
representative has insinuated that recent contact has led Mr M to think that this is not going 
to stop and they are just going  around in circles. This is clearly  a terribly worrying  situation 
for him and I can see why over the years it would have affected his home life and general  
wellbeing. 
what needs to be done to put things right?
I think there can be no doubt that Santander  could have done  much better here.  I know that 
Mr M wants compensation and I intend to award this, but I dont think that alone  is the 
answer here.  From reading Mr Ms submissions my understanding is that ultimately he wants  
some reassurance that the collections  activity  will stop so he can get on with his life. I get the 
impression this is the most important thing for him.
While there  will never  be a guarantee against  future events (and I note the existence  of 
possible wider issues with past identity theft/credit reporting) I think steps  can be taken to 
reduce the risk that Mr M will be pursued  about  Agreement A going forward.  One of those is 
for Santander to buy back the debt (and not sell it again) so following this decision it is able 
to closely keep tabs on future collections  activity  and ensure Mr M is not chased  again in 
connection with it. It would also be fair for Santander to provide Mr M with a contact of an 
individual or team privy to the details of this case (and my decision) which he can 
communicate with directly in the (hopefully  unlikely) event of any future contact about  
Agreement A. 
I think the steps outlined will hopefully provide Mr M with the reassurance  he wants  going 
forward and alleviate his concern. 
Of course I agree that compensation is also due for what has happened in the past. I am not 
able to consider  compensation  for what Mr Ms partner has been through.  However,  I can of 
course consider  how the impact on his home life has affected Mr M as a whole.
Compensation is not a scientific exercise.  But it should broadly fairly reflect the seriousness 
of what has happened. In considering the level of award I have taken into account  the overall 
circumstances including:  
Mr M has been wrongfully pursued  for the debt over a significant period of time (now 
around 7- 8 years)  and he has continued to be pursued despite informing Santander 
of its error at an early  stage;
Santander has not persuasively  shown  that it was not responsible for the initial  error, 
and in any event  it should have recognised that it was chasing the wrong  person from 
the start;
Ref: DRN86969746the recovery action  involved several letters over a course of years  and has involved 
at least one early morning home visit which Mr M described as extremely distressing;
Mr M had to attend court in relation to the debt many years  after first contact in an 
effort to show he was being wrongfully pursued;
Santander sold the debt on despite  the historical issues  with the wrongfully identified 
debtor;
Mr M has received distressing correspondence  from a law firm about court  action in 
relation to this matter  at the end of 2019;
there appear to have  been links to Agreement A added to his credit file as a result of 
Santanders actions  which  has possibly contributed to difficulties  in getting credit; and
the detailed  testimony  provided in relation to the impact this matter  has had on 
Mr Ms overall wellbeing  and his home life
One of the key things here is just how long this has been going on for. And while Mr M 
appears not to have  had constant  contact  about  the debt relating to Agreement  A, the 
contact has been  spread  over a very significant period of time.  As a result it has caused an 
accumulation of considerable distress, uncertainty and inconvenience. I think the award 
should reflect the severity of this situation and ongoing worry caused. Therefore, I am 
provisionally directing  Santander to pay Mr M an increased compensation figure of £3,000 in 
addition to the other actions it needs  to take to reduce the risk of Mr M being  contacted  again 
about the debt.
my provisional decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
pay Mr M £3,000 in compensation;
buy back the debt relating  to Agreement A permanently and take steps  to ensure 
Mr M is not contacted in relation to it going forward;
if applicable  ensure any information  relating  to Agreement A is removed from Mr Ms 
credit file;
provide Mr M with contact details  of a team or individual  familiar with this case  who 
he can call in the event of any further issues in relation to contact about this debt
Santander agreed with my provisional  decision.  Mr M agreed with aspects of the provisional 
decision but said, in summary:
he is still concerned  this would not be the end of the matter  and wants reassurances  
that Santander will stop contacting him;
by accepting compensation he is worried that Santander will not take responsibility 
for any future debt recovery action;
he is still being contacted in relation to debts other than Agreement  A and wonders 
what happens about this and future contact from other  companies (when it is clear to 
him that Santander  and the CRA are responsible);
he wants to emphasise  this situation  has affected his health,  personal life and work; 
he doesnt think £3,000 is enough  compensation for 7-8 years  of problems and 
Santander will not feel or notice this unless  it is higher  it needs to be more 
substantial so that it is properly acknowledged  by the powers that be and steps  are 
taken to prevent  it happening again; and
he wants to provide further medical evidence and offered further information about  
the costs incurred for identify protection services.
Ref: DRN86969747my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I carefully considered  what Mr M said in his response to my provisional decision. I contacted 
him to say, in summary:
although Santander shouldve taken more  care in tracing its customer and has 
wrongly pursued him in relation to Agreement A I dont  think  there is enough  to say it 
is responsible for the other issues  he has been having with creditors.  Particularly 
given the mentions  of possible fraud  and identity theft in the background. If Mr M is 
being pursued by other creditors in error this is a matter  to take up with those 
creditors (and possibly complain to them about);
I wont be able to guarantee that Santander dont make a mistake  again going
forward in respect of Agreement A. However,  I am directing it to take steps  to prevent 
this happening.  If it does make a mistake again in the future Mr M would likely be 
able to make  a complaint about  these  new events;
My decision is not about the actions of the CRA.  Mr M has a separate complaint 
against it. But as I have said in my provisional decision - I still think that regardless of 
what the CRA did Santander  could have avoided pursuing Mr M in error by taking  
more care in its initial and subsequent tracing;  and
I am happy to consider additional  evidence in relation to the identity protection.  
However, I think this is unlikely to make  a difference to my award as I have already 
factored in what has been said about  this despite the lack of supporting  receipts. I am 
also happy to consider  any medical  reports if Mr M wishes to send these in - however 
I dont disbelieve  what has already been  said about the extent of the impact of this 
situation on him. And I have  taken all of this into account in my provisional award.
In response to this Mr M sent in a personal  summary of his medical history and emphasised 
the impact of this situation on him including  stress,  anxiety and trouble sleeping.  He said the 
problem has not yet been resolved and his health  is suffering.  He says he has suffered 
humiliation, not received an apology and doesnt think £3,000  is enough compensation for 
what has happened. 
My M is aware  this service is not a regulator  - so the aim of my award  is not to fine the 
business for its actions.  It is to reflect the individual circumstances of Mr Ms complaint. I do 
not underestimate the impact of this situation  on Mr M. I have asked Santander to pay him a 
total of £3,000 to reflect  the severe trouble and upset caused. I know Mr M wants  more, but 
as I have already  said in my provisional  decision  despite not having his medical records  I 
considered the credible  and detailed testimony about how this situation  has affected him. 
And while there appear to be other factors  at play, I accepted that this situation has likely 
caused him a lot of distress and impacted his wellbeing. I took this into account  when  
deciding what should happen to put things right. While I appreciate  the time Mr M has taken 
to summarise his medical history in more detail  I had already taken the previously 
submitted key issues into consideration in deciding the monetary award. 
Ref: DRN86969748Putting a monetary amount on Mr Ms experience is not a precise exercise.  And I have kept 
in mind that it isnt the only factor when considering how to put things right.  One thing Mr M 
has emphasised  is how he wants Santander  to stop pursuing him for Agreement  A so he can 
move on. While I cant provide any guarantees about this my decision directs Santander not 
to contact him in relation to the debt going forward. Therefore, it is essential that Santander  
do whatever it needs to do in order to ensure Mr M is not contacted again.
By taking  control  of the debt once again, removing any information  about it from Mr Ms 
credit file and providing him with a point  of contact familiar with his case Mr M will hopefully 
not have any issues going forward. I know he has said he wants a senior manager to be his 
point of contact. I dont think it necessary for me to direct Santander  on who should  be his 
point of contact  (and I have previously said this might be a team  rather than individual). The 
main thing is Santander abides  by my decision in order that Mr M does  not repeat the 
frustration and distress he has been  through and is able to move on from this highly 
unfortunate situation. 
So, in conjunction with what I am telling  Santander  to do I still think  an award of £3,000 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. I consider  what I 
have said in the provisional decision and here (including my initial response to Mr M as 
summarised above)  to be fair and reasonable. I now leave it to Mr M to decide  if he wishes  
to accept my proposal in settlement  of his complaint against Santander. It is worth noting 
that if Mr M is considering  other action in relation  to this complaint against Santander (for 
example, going  to court to get more  compensation)  he should consider taking legal advice 
on how accepting my final decision might  affect this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
pay Mr M £3,000 in compensation;
buy back the debt relating  to Agreement A permanently and take steps  to ensure 
Mr M is not contacted in relation to it going forward;
if applicable  ensure any information  relating  to Agreement A is removed from Mr Ms 
credit file; and
provide Mr M with contact details  of a team or individual  familiar with this case  who 
he can call in the event of any further issues in relation to contact about this debt.
Ref: DRN86969749If Santander does  not pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
that Mr M accepts my final decision then it must also pay 8% simple yearly  interest  on this 
from the date of my final decision  to the date of payment.
If there is an interest award  and Santander  considers  that it is required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr M how much it has taken 
off. It should  also give Mr M a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Mark Lancod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8696974