K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs D says Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although Mrs D says she thought she had to have the PPI, I think M&S made it clear that 
she didnt have  to have it and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this. The credit  card application form had a separate section for 
PPI. For the PPI to be added to the account, Mrs D had to tick to say she wanted it and 
sign to confirm. If she hadnt wanted  PPI, she could have left this section of the form 
blank.
M&S  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information M&S gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI, despite the sick pay she would  have 
received from her employer - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected  by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means M&S doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But M&S will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D because:  
M&S  got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs D about that. Because  M&S didnt tell Mrs D, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, M&S has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
M&S has to pay back to Mrs D any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. M&S should also pay back to Mrs D any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Ref: DRN86835462M&S should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs D the difference  between  
what Mrs D owes  and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. M&S should also pay Mrs D 8%* simple interest 
if she paid off their credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs D can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
But Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc does have  to pay back  to Mrs D any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8683546