K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains about the rate Key Currency Ltd (KCL) applied to a Euro  to Sterling money 
transfer following  the sale of a property  in Europe  and that KCL failed to respond to his 
request to defer  the transaction.
Background
Mr J needed to transfer a large sum of money into sterling and used KCL to facilitate  the 
process. They say they were told that they would receive approx. £204,000  on conversion.
Once KCL received the money  for conversion, Mr J say KCL advised  them  that the pound 
had strengthened  and that theyd  get £200,000 if they fixed  the exchange  rate that day 
rather than risk losing  more. So, they agreed to the rate offered.
Mr J checked the currency market for himself and says he found it was moving contrary  to 
what he was told. He attempted to stop the transaction  but says KCL did not reply in a timely 
manner and ignored his request. The transaction proceeded.
Mr J subsequently  complained to KCL saying that what theyd been told about the 
movement in the currency market wasnt true. They were unhappy with KCLs response  so 
brought the complaint to our service.
The investigators view was that KCL acted in line with their terms and conditions. His view 
was that the decision taken by Mr J to complete the transaction was not the result  of formal 
advice given by KCL. Also, the investigators view was that KCL had responded to Mr J 
within a reasonable time frame, and as such KCL had not done anything  wrong. 
Mr J disagreed with this view. He thought  KCL had advised him wrongly about the currency  
market and had pressurised him into completing the deal. He also felt KCL should  have 
stopped the deal as he requested.  He asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I understand Mr J is 
frustrated by the exchange rate applied  by KCL as he believes he should have received 
more, but I have decided I cant uphold his complaints.
Firstly, I must consider  whether I think the information given to Mr J by KCL,  about  the 
market conditions at the time of the deal, was correct. Mr J said that he later saw evidence 
on the web that the Euro strengthened that afternoon  which meant he should have been  
given a better rate. KCL have provided me the market data that they used  at the time of the 
deal which  they say shows that Sterling  was strengthening that afternoon. I need to decide 
which of these positions is more persuasive.  I think the web rates that Mr J saw were likely 
to be publicly accessible indicative rates, and not those that were commercially achievable 
for transactions such  as the proposed  one. The data that KCL have provided does appear to 
show a strengthening  of Sterling at the time of the deal which  supports what  they said. So, 
on balance I think it is likely that the information  provided by KCL at the time reflected the 
data that they used.
Ref: DRN87149952Having decided that the market information  given was most likely correct, I must  consider 
whether Mr J was advised how to proceed  with the deal, or whether this was a decision he 
made himself. I think KCL only gave market  information to allow him to make  an informed 
choice. Ill explain why.
I have considered the terms and conditions set out by KCL. Sec 2.5 shows  that KCL can 
provide information  about foreign exchange  markets but will not provide advice, and that the 
client must rely on their own judgement.  This sets out what  KCL should and shouldnt  do, so 
I need to decide if they followed these rules and acted fairly.
I have listened  to the telephone call between KCL and Mr J on the day the deal was agreed. 
KCL informed Mr J that there  was some market movement and they were concerned that if 
Mr J waited, he may get a worse  rate. I dont think KCL offered an opinion  as to what they 
thought the market would do, and indeed  they said that they didnt know. I dont think they 
advised what they thought  Mr J should do. I did hear them say however, that if Mr J 
accepted the deal at that point, it would lock that rate in and protect the deal against  any 
further movement. I dont think this was pressurising  him, as I felt it made  Mr Js options 
clear  take the deal as is, or take the risk posed by market movement. I heard Mr and Mrs J 
discuss this between themselves on the telephone,  and whilst understandably disappointed  
that the return was less than they had expected,  they agreed to go ahead with the deal at 
that time.  I therefore  think, on balance, that KCL complied with their terms and conditions  
and were fair to Mr J during the deal.
Now I turn to the complaint about KCL not responding to his email requesting a hold on the 
transaction or the calls Mr J made  following the deal,  in a timely manner. Having considered 
it, I dont  think that completing  the deal as agreed, and the time taken  to by KCL to respond 
was unreasonable. Ill explain why.
I have listened  to the phone call when  the deal was agreed. KCL went through the terms and 
conditions of the deal with Mr J, making it clear this was a binding contract. KCL confirmed 
that Mr J both understood and accepted the contract, and from listening to the recording,  it is 
my opinion that he did. 
I can understand Mr Js frustration that he was unable to put a hold on the deal, but he did 
not email them until about 4 hours later, and outside of the business  hours.  I dont think  it is 
reasonable to expect  KCL to have responded before the next day. There  is also no clause in 
the terms and conditions which allow for a cooling-off period, and as Ive said above, I think  
Mr J understood the contract to complete the deal was binding.
Mr J rang KCL first thing  the next morning.  KCL said they hadnt  read the email but would do 
so and get back to him. There was no telephone call reply, but an email  was sent to Mr J at 
about midday apologising as they had been away from the office, explaining that the 
exchange couldnt be stopped and making themselves available that afternoon if Mr J 
wished to discuss it. I totally  understand  and can sympathise with Mr Js concern and 
frustration at the lack of an immediate reply, as this was clearly an important matter  to him. 
However, I think this frustration was more  likely  to be based  on his belief that he was able to 
stop the transaction and obtain a better rate for the exchange, rather than poor customer 
service.
 
Ref: DRN87149953On balance I do not consider this an unreasonable response by KCL as there  was no 
significant delay.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8714995