K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of repairs  carried out by Haven Insurance  Company 
Limited (Haven) on his vehicle following a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
background
In 2017, before Mr H owned this car, it had been  damaged and declared a total loss. This 
means an insurer had decided that it wasnt economical to repair  it. At some point after this it 
was repaired and put back on the road and Mr H came to own it.
Mr H was involved in an accident in January 2019. He logged  a claim with Haven for the 
damage and it arranged repairs through its recommended repairers (RR).
Mr H complained to Haven about the time taken and the quality of work  carried out. More 
specifically, he said the bonnet malfunction  had not been fixed, the paint work was not of 
adequate quality and the panel gaps did not match up.  
Haven said RR was limited to what it could do due to previous poor repairs. And it said the 
repairs took longer  than usual because it had to work around the existing damage.  
Mr H didnt think this was fair because, as a taxi driver, his car being off the road caused him 
a loss of income.  He says following the crash, his car was deemed unroadworthy due to 
warning lights and errors on the dashboard. 
Haven agreed  to carry out further repair work to the bonnet,  until the RR reported a previous 
poor wiring  repair and having a different plug fitted. Haven instructed the repairs to stop. 
Mr H brought his complaint to our service because he wasnt  satisfied with how his claim had 
been settled.
Our investigator looked into things and thought an independent engineers  report was 
needed. This was provided in June 2019. Based on this and the other  information  available, 
the investigator thought Haven had treated Mr H fairly, so he didnt think the complaint 
should succeed.
Mr H didnt agree. He said, in summary:
-he accepts that the previous accident is the reason for the imperfect  structural 
repairs; 
-he thinks the bumper  should have been fitted with new parts  and the warning signs 
on the dashboard should have been  sorted;
-Haven shouldnt have  gone ahead with the repair work when it identified the earlier  
damage; and
-he has suffered loss of income  from his taxi trade and has incurred further costs to 
repair the car.
Because an agreement has not been reached the case  has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN82197792Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mr Hs policy  says that in the event of an accidental damage claim, Haven has the option to:
a)repair the damage to the car; or
b)settle the claim by monetary payment;  or
c)provide a replacement car.
The policy goes on to say that if Haven considers the car is beyond economical repair as a 
result of an accident or incident covered by this insurance, it will provide the registered 
owner a cash settlement  of its market value up to the value shown in the schedule and 
subject to the limit of coverage after deducting  the excess.
The independent engineers report says,  in summary, the following:
-theres nothing untoward  with the finish obtained by the repairer and the previous 
poor repairs undertaken are responsible for the repairer being unable to obtain 
correct alignment to the items they have replaced;
-the issue with the collision prevention ECU  and the bonnet detonator are likely to be 
attributable to the previous incident and not the incident under review;
-the repair of this vehicle following the incident of 30 January 2019 should never have 
been entertained and the matter  should  have been dealt  with on a cash in lieu of 
repairs basis to reflect the repair costs;
-the damage caused as part of the incident  under review would not render  the vehicle 
unroadworthy. The vehicle is currently  considered roadworthy  provided it complies 
with the current  Road Traffic Act in terms of Road Tax, MOT (if age applicable)  and 
Motor Insurance.  
Ive seen the RRs initial inspection notes dated 7 February 2019. The car was reported to 
be in a good pre-accident condition but deemed unroadworthy following the incident in 
question. Based on the findings of the initial inspection, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Haven to proceed to settle the claim though repair work. 
The estimated repair  time was five working days.  The works were  completed on 
27 February 2019. Mr H immediately reported  his dissatisfaction with the quality of the 
repairs. It later became evident that the car had been involved in a previous accident and 
deemed a category C loss.
I recognise that the repair work took longer than estimated. However, I dont think its 
unreasonable that the quality of the previous repairs impacted RRs ability  to repair  the car 
within the estimated  timescales. This is supported  by the fact that when Mr H later contacted  
an independent garage, they refused to take the job because of previous poor repair work.
I think Haven took reasonable steps to repair the car to a satisfactory and roadworthy 
standard as confirmed in the recent engineers report. Mr H accepts that the previous 
accident is the reason for the imperfect structural repairs.  And, the engineers report 
confirmed the issues with the collision prevention ECU and the bonnet detonator are likely 
attributable to the previous incident and not the incident under review.
Ref: DRN82197793For the reasons  described, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint about the quality  of the 
repair work. I say this because the engineers report confirms that the car was returned to 
Mr H in a roadworthy  state. Mr H chose to pursue  the claim further by asking Haven to carry 
out further remedial work.  Again, I think Haven acted fairly and reasonably by agreeing to 
attempt further  repair works. It was only when RR identified  a previous poor wiring repair and 
the car having  a different  plug fitted   which prevented further  repairs  going ahead  due to the 
safety risk these issues posed  that Haven  decided not to continue with the repairs. I think 
this was fair in the circumstances.
Mr H says that he incurred costs to attend to the ECU and the bonnet detonator  to get the 
car in a condition fit for use for his taxi trade. As the report describes, the related faults are 
likely attribute to the previous incident  and so I cant fairly say Haven is liable for any loss of 
income or further  costs incurred by Mr H for these to be repaired.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8219779