K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs D1 complain that K, an appointed representative of Intrinsic Wealth Ltd, dealt 
with their mortgage application and insurance needs unfairly and unreasonably. They  want  
compensation.
background 
Mr and Mrs D1 used K, an appointed representative of Intrinsic,  as their mortgage broker  
and first met him in May 2017. The mortgage  over their current  property was in the names of 
Mr and Mrs D2 due to affordability issues and Mr and Mrs D1 wanted to explore options, 
including life assurance. Much of the communication between  Mr and Mrs D1 and K went  
through their relative, Mrs D2, who was also being advised by K about a remortgage for 
another property.  
Mr and Mrs D1 said that they were advised that the best option  was to buy their property 
from Mr and Mrs D2 and get a mortgage to do so - the plan was to do so before the standard 
variable rate (SVR) applied to the original mortgage. But this didnt happen,  though 
Mr and Mrs D1 did buy the property  in the end. They said that they also met K in November 
2017 and his locum  in January 2018  to progress matters. K offered to put things  right 
whenever dissatisfaction was expressed during  the process.
Mr and Mrs D1, through Mrs D2, complained to Intrinsic in April 2018. It said that Ks 
communication and service hadnt been good  enough, but that it didnt have  a formal 
agreement to work on behalf  of Mr and Mrs D1. No application was made and no product 
was recommended to them. Intrinsic  pointed out that eleven months had passed since  
Mr and Mrs D1 first met with K until they took action to resolve the problem  it thought that 
they shouldve  realised earlier nothing was going  to happen, particularly as there was no 
formal agreement in place with K. It offered £250 compensation for the lack of service 
provided.
Mr and Mrs D1 complained to us. The investigators  view was that it was difficult to see what 
had happened  it was unclear if K was acting for Mr and Mrs D2 too. She said that due to 
the decision to run communications between K and Mr and Mrs D1 through Mrs D2, she 
didnt think she could  find K directly misled  Mr and Mrs D1. The investigator said that when it 
became clear K wasnt acting in the best interests  of Mr and Mrs D1, there was time to get a 
new mortgage before the SVR applied. She also didnt think  that Intrinsic was responsible for 
the search or legal fees as the work shouldnt have been done before a formal agreement  
was in place or a mortgage offer made. The investigator  didnt think  there was sufficient 
evidence K had been asked to deal with life assurance, and in any event, again 
Mr and Mrs D1 shouldve taken action  earlier given the total failure  by K to deal with it. She 
thought the offer of £250 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr and Mrs D1 disagreed. They said that if K had carried out the plan in time, they wouldve 
had a fixed rate mortgage and not paid as much on the SVR. Mr and Mrs D1 felt that the 
investigators view just let businesses continue with poor behaviour.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN81178862My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes or send a wider message to the 
financial services community; my role is to ensure consumers are put back  into the position 
that they shouldve been in if the mistake  hadnt happened.
In Mr and Mrs D1s case, theres no doubt at all that Ks communication and service was 
poor. And I bear in mind  that it appears  Mr and Mrs D1, despite  living  in a property for which  
they were paying,  were  effectively first time buyers. Its also relevant that Mrs D2 was also 
heavily involved and taking the lead on behalf of Mr and Mrs D1. Theres  nothing wrong with 
this, but it does mean that the experience  of Mrs D2 is also relevant  she had two 
mortgages and experience of financial matters.
Having reviewed all the evidence available to me, its evident that K was representing  
himself as acting as an adviser to Mr and Mrs D1 (and Mr and Mrs D2). He was repeatedly  
promising to get all the clients the mortgages  they wanted and advised  on the way forward 
with Mr and Mrs D1s home. The fact that much of the communication  to and from 
Mr and Mrs D1 took place  through Mrs D2 doesnt mean that K didnt directly  mislead  them. 
He was transmitting  messages  to Mr and Mrs D1 on which they were  expected  to rely (and 
they did). The plan of Mr and Mrs D1 buying  the property from Mr and Mrs D2 using a 
mortgage obtaining in their names  was Ks plan and ultimately it was what  happened  
(without Ks assistance).
I dont think Intrinsic is right to say K wasnt acting on behalf of Mr and Mrs D1; I agree that 
there was no formal agreement signed  but Mr and Mrs D1 werent to know  that was unusual. 
And the agreement simply allows K to charge a fee; its absence doesnt  mean  that a 
relationship didnt exist. K continually represented  to all the consumers  that he was acting on 
behalf of all of them in order to achieve their mortgage goals. I cant  find any evidence  that K 
agreed to assist with Mr and Mrs D1s life assurance needs though. I think  its fair and 
reasonable to treat K as Mr and Mrs D1s mortgage adviser as the evidence shows that K 
said he would arrange a mortgage on their behalf.
I think there were signs of trouble in September 2017, which  shouldve  alerted 
Mr and Mrs D1 that all was possibly  not well. I appreciate K gave many  excuses  about  the 
lack of progress  though.  I think that K acted in a wholly unfair and unreasonable way when 
dealing with Mr and Mrs D1s mortgage  application; he didnt actually  make  one but kept 
promising to progress  matters for a lengthy  period.
This service considers compensation in terms of both financial loss and compensation  for 
trouble and upset.  Mr and Mrs D1 say that they were  caused financial loss due to Ks unfair  
and unreasonable behaviour as they were paying  a mortgage which had moved  onto the 
SVR. Legally,  this isnt correct.  Actually,  it was Mr and Mrs D2 who were paying the 
increased monthly mortgage payments  due to the delays in getting Mr and Mrs D1 a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs D1 were  repaying  Mr and Mrs D2 in a private  arrangement.  Im not 
persuaded that its fair and reasonable for Mr and Mrs D1 to receive compensation for this; I 
am also dealing  with the case of Mr and Mrs D2. They are the persons who had to pay the 
increased mortgage payments.
Mr and Mrs D1 also paid legal and other  fees in relation to the purchase of their home.  But 
they shouldnt  have done anything until a mortgage offer was received and in any event I 
note that they later did buy the property. Im not persuaded that it would  be fair and 
reasonable for them to receive compensation for financial loss.
Ref: DRN81178863But I do think its fair and reasonable for compensation for trouble and upset to be paid by 
Intrinsic to Mr and Mrs D1, and £250  is far too little in my view. Mr and Mrs D1 were the 
victims of a sustained deception  by Intrinsics appointed representative.  It appears  Ks locum 
who was later involved was utterly unknown to Intrinsic; it is not clear  if this individual was 
even able to advise or deal with mortgage applications. Mr and Mrs D1 werent able to 
progress their wish to own their own home  for nearly  a year, during which  the deception 
carried out by K continued. 
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset, but Mr and Mrs D1 clearly  suffered 
from worry, distress, confusion and are understandably  distrustful.  Intrinsics  response 
doesnt appear to accept  that ultimately it is responsible for Ks actions, and forced 
Mr and Mrs D1 to the inconvenience of complaining to this service. Mr and Mrs D1 also 
suffered the need to pay more money each month to Mr and Mrs D2 in order  to cover the 
increased mortgage costs. Taking  everything into account, I think  £800 compensation for 
trouble and upset  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs D1 accepted  my provisional view. Intrinsic said that it accepted my provisional 
view, though it disagreed with the amount  of compensation I indicated  would  be fair and 
reasonable. It said Mr and Mrs D1 werent  clients of Intrinsic and hadnt signed any 
documents to proceed with a mortgage application. Intrinsic also compared the amount of 
compensation I had provisionally recommended to the compensation recommended to 
Mr and Mrs D1s relatives and said it didnt understand why Mr and Mrs D1 should get the 
same amount. Intrinsic  felt it was unfair that it was being  penalised  for the actions of the 
locum.
Most of the points  raised by Intrinsic arent  new. I also dont think Mr and Mrs D1 are at fault 
for dealing  with the locum introduced by K, Intrinsics  appointed representative.  Intrinsic  are 
responsible for the actions of its appointed representative, including Ks decision to involve a 
locum. Consumers are entitled to rely on the representations made  by appointed 
representatives, and its for Intrinsic  to take up its concerns about the locum with K, not 
Mr and Mrs D1. I also dont accept that Mr and Mrs D1 werent clients of K; the evidence 
shows that he claimed to be acting  on their behalf.  And compensation for trouble and upset 
is awarded on the basis of the trouble and upset suffered, not the underlying facts.
Having considered the evidence, the comments made in response to my provisional  decision 
and all the circumstances, I think the view set out in my provisional  decision is fair and 
reasonable and will make it my final decision.
Ref: DRN81178864my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Intrinsic  Wealth Limited should pay 
Mr and Mrs D1 £800 compensation for the trouble  and upset theyve  suffered. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D1 to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8117886