K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out for a credit card 
account that started in 1996.  Miss S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
It isnt clear exactly when Miss Ss PPI started. It was on her account by 2000. Most  likely it 
started at the same time as her credit card in 1996.  Miss S has said Lloyds didnt ask her 
whether she wanted  the PPI or tell her it was optional.  But if Miss S took the PPI out with her 
card by post - like she thinks she did - from what  we know of Lloyds postal applications at 
that time,  the PPI wouldnt have been added unless Miss S marked her application to show  
that she wanted it.
Also the sale happened  a very long time ago  Miss S took out her card more than twenty 
years ago. And buying credit card insurance is often not memorable. So what  Miss S has 
said isnt enough  on its own to make me think Lloyds added PPI without asking or giving her 
a choice. And I havent seen anything else that makes me think that this is what Lloyds did.
So, on balance, what I have overall  isnt enough  to make me think  Lloyds added the PPI 
without Miss Ss agreement or without giving her a choice about it.
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Miss S it had to do more and check  the PPI was right for 
her. And Lloyds  thinks it might have recommended the PPI to Miss S. So I think  its fair to 
assess her complaint on that basis  which places on Lloyds more responsibility  for the sale.  
But from what Ive seen  of Miss Ss circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for 
her. For example  Miss S wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover  so she couldve  claimed  the benefit  if the circumstances arose. 
Also Miss S seems to have had a need  for the cover. From what shes told us, her work sick 
pay wouldve reduced after three months.  And she didnt have savings or anything else to 
help pay her credit card if she were  too sick to work. For a successful claim the PPI wouldve 
paid out for up to twelve months  for sickness or unemployment. And the benefit  wouldve 
been paid in addition to any redundancy or sick pay Miss S received  from her employer.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I havent seen enough  to make me think she didnt want this type of cover  when 
she took it out. And, as Ive explained above,  it seems like it wouldve been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the cover  was affordable. Taking  everything  into 
account, I dont  think  better information  about the PPI would have put Miss S off taking it.
What Ive said above means Lloyds doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss S.
Ref: DRN89413972But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss S because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account all Miss Ss points including what shes  said about being  in good 
health with a secure job and good  prospects. But I still think it was possible at the time that 
Miss S might  in future suffer an unexpected loss of income due to sickness  or redundancy. 
So, with this in mind, I think it was possible at the time that the PPI might help her in future. 
And so, for the reasons Ive already given above,  these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8941397