K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the conflicting  information they received from British Gas 
Insurance Limited (British  Gas) regarding a replacement part on their boiler.
Background
Mr and Mrs C have a Homecare plan with British Gas. The policy  provides cover  for the 
boiler, controls and central heating including an annual service, plus repairs to plumbing, 
drains and home electrics.
On 8 November  2017, Mr and Mrs C reported  a fault with their boiler. A British Gas engineer  
attended on 9 November to inspect the fault and carry out the repair. He advised the fault 
was with the electrics  and a replacement part would be needed. On 4 December, an 
engineer went  to Mr and Mrs Cs home  and said the boiler needed a new circuit board, but it 
was out of stock  so the part was ordered. On 13 December, British Gas spoke to 
Mr and Mrs C prior to a planned visit and said it couldnt get hold of the part and it was 
obsolete. They were told to order the part themselves and British  Gas would fit it. As 
Mr and Mrs C had taken time off work for an engineer to visit, but the visit was pointless 
without the part, British Gas sent Mr and Mrs C a cheque  for £30 for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy and spoke to a service manager. He confirmed  the part was 
obsolete but if Mr and Mrs C bought a reconditioned  part British Gas would fit it. An engineer 
visited Mr and Mrs C in January 2018  with a part, but it turned out to be a faulty part that 
hadnt been properly recorded.  The engineer  again wasnt  able to fix Mr and Mrs Cs boiler, 
but left them  with a heater.
Mr and Mrs C complained  in writing on 4 January 2018 and chased British Gas for a 
response on a couple  of occasions. On 29 March,  British  Gas responded. It reviewed what 
had happened  and apologised for the service it had provided. In recognition  of this, it offered
Mr and Mrs C a total of £178 which included four payments  of £22 for the monthly  premium  
they would  still have had to pay for the cover and £90 for the inconvenience  caused. It also 
said it would  reimburse  Mr and Mrs C for the cost of buying heaters and using additional 
electricity if they could provide proof  of this. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with British Gas and brought the complaint to this service. They 
say the boiler  hadnt been replaced  and they werent happy with the offer of £178 as it 
amounted to £1 a day since the incident was reported.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought an offer of £550 was 
fair given  how long Mr and Mrs C were without heating over a very cold winter. This was in 
addition to the £178 offered by British Gas.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the investigators  opinion. British  Gas didnt agree with the 
recommended offer of £550 and asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision. At the same 
time, it accepted it could  have done better and instead offered an additional £100 to reflect  
the confusion  over the part and the delays.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 September 2019. I explained I thought British Gas 
had overall dealt with Mr and Mrs Cs complaint fairly. 
Ref: DRN86336952I thought British Gas acted reasonably  in not replacing Mr and Mrs Cs boiler, as it was more 
than ten years old. I also felt British  Gas had discussions with Mr and Mrs C, before  and 
after the breakdown, about the need to replace their boiler. 
I accepted British Gas could  have been  better at communicating with Mr and Mrs C, 
particularly in relation to the replacement part. But I also felt the total amount of £278 offered 
by British Gas to reflect the poor service it provided was reasonable. I noted  that British  Gas 
offered to consider the cost of heaters and increased electricity  bills, if Mr and Mrs C 
provided evidence.  
Mr and Mrs C have responded. They disagree with my provisional decision. In summary they 
say:
They didnt receive anything in writing from British Gas to say their boiler was old and 
needed to be replaced, or that the part needed was obsolete;
They question why British Gas continued to take premium payments from them; and 
British Gas admitted  they could have done  better.
British Gas accepted my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and for the reasons set 
out in my provisional  decision, I still think the offer made by British  Gas is fair and 
reasonable. 
 
I agree  with Mr and Mrs C that British  Gas didnt tell them in writing  their boiler needed  to be 
replaced. But Im satisfied from the notes of engineers visits over the years they were  told of 
the need to replace their boiler. I understand Mr and Mrs C regard  these conversations  as 
casual, but Im persuaded British Gas has done enough to let Mr and Mrs C know their boiler 
needed to be replaced. It was Mr and Mrs Cs choice not to replace it while it was still 
working, which I understand. 
Mr and Mrs C asked why British Gas continued to take premium payments if they could not 
repair their boiler. It seems to me that until the breakdown in 2017  British Gas had been  able 
to service and repair Mr and Mrs Cs boiler. It was only at that time that it was unable  to get a 
new part, as it was obsolete. The amount British Gas agreed to pay to Mr and Mrs C 
included premium payments from the time of their claim. So I think  British Gas correctly  took 
premium payments, but acted reasonably in refunding them  when it was unable  to repair Mr 
and Mrs Cs boiler. 
British Gas could  have done better,  which it has recognised. It didnt communicate clearly  
about the replacement part, and this led to delay and frustration. But the real problem was 
that Mr and Mrs Cs boiler was old and it was no longer  possible to get replacement  parts  to 
repair it. Im satisfied British Gas engineers made  Mr and Mrs C aware of the fact their boiler 
was old and needed to be replaced.  I understand and appreciate  Mr and Mrs C went through 
a difficult period and they were left without  heating which no doubt caused distress and 
inconvenience. But overall, having considered everything, Im satisfied the amount of £278 
British Gas has offered  to them  fairly  reflects the errors made in the circumstances of this 
complaint. As such I dont  think British Gas needs to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN86336953My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think the £278  offer made by British  Gas Insurance Limited 
to Mr and Mrs C is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8633695