K821x#15complaint
Mrs G complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Black Horse  Limited, (trading  as Land Rover  Financial Services), wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. Shes being helped  with her complaint by her husband.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs G under a hire purchase agreement with Land Rover 
Financial Services that she signed in August 2016.  Her husband had issues with the car on 
the way home from collecting it and the cars turbo  was replaced. He said that Mrs G wanted 
to reject the car, but the dealer said that if she wasnt  satisfied with it after the repairs it could 
be exchanged  for another car of similar  age and specification. It also offered two years 
servicing free of charge.
Mrs G complained about a gearbox issue in November 2017, but the fault couldnt  be 
replicated. And in February 2018  an issue relating to the central junction box, which was 
causing the system  to indicate a gearbox  fault, was identified. Mrs G complained  to Land 
Rover Financial Services in March 2018.  It offered  her £250 in recognition  of the trouble  and 
upset that this complaint had caused her - but she didnt  accept its offer and complained  to 
this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She said that Mrs G 
shouldve been  able to reject the car in September 2016 because  of the issues  with it. So 
she recommended  that Land Rover Financial Services should collect the car, cancel  the 
agreement, refund Mrs Gs deposit  (with  interest) and pay her the £250 that it had offered for 
her distress  and inconvenience.
Land Rover Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says,  in summary,  that Mrs G didnt ask to reject  the car within  30 days  of it 
being supplied  to her and that her husband asked for the return period  to be extended to two 
months for peace  of mind  and for a partial refund of the deposit.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs G 
and to Land Rover  Financial Services on 8 November 2019. In my provisional  decision I said 
as follows:
Land Rover  Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for 
ensuring that the car was of satisfactory  quality.  That will depend  on a number of 
factors, including the age, and mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. 
The car that was supplied  to Mrs G was about three and a half years  old, had been 
driven for 36,300 miles and had a price of £25,200. Satisfactory quality also covers  
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long that time is will depend on a 
number of factors. 
Its clear from the evidence that there  was a fault with the car when Mrs Gs husband 
was driving it home after collecting  it - and the cars turbo was replaced. Its also 
clear that Mrs Gs husband wasnt happy  about  that and that he was negotiating a 
suitable outcome  with the dealer. One of those outcomes was rejection of the car. 
Ref: DRN80437572But I consider it to be more likely than not, on the basis of the evidence  that Ive 
seen, that it was agreed that the car would be returned to Mrs G after being repaired 
and that the dealer said that it could still be returned  if Mrs G wasnt  happy  with it, 
and that two years  of free servicing was accepted. There  was also a discussion 
about the cost of insurance for the courtesy  car that was provided to Mrs G. But I 
consider that the evidence shows that the dealers offer was accepted  by Mrs G at 
that time,  instead  of her choosing  to reject the car.
The car was serviced  in July 2017 and was returned  to the dealer  in November 2017 
because of a gearbox  issue. Its mileage  was recorded as being 43,415 at that time. 
But the dealer was unable  to replicate the fault. The car was returned to the dealer 
again in December 2017 because of the same  issue as there  was a warning light.  
The car was booked in for repairs in February  2018 and Mrs G was provided with a 
courtesy car. The car was with the dealer from February to May 2018  and an issue 
with the central  junction box which was causing the system to indicate a gearbox 
fault was identified. The central junction box was replaced but the repairs took longer 
than expected and further work  was required  - including a replacement  gasket. And 
in July 2018 the module  transmission  was replaced.
I acknowledge that those were significant repairs  but Ive seen no evidence to show  
that there  was an issue with the gearbox, gasket or central junction box before 
November 2017.  That was fifteen months  after the car was supplied  to Mrs G and it 
had been driven  for more than 7,000  miles in that time. And the car was then nearly  
five years old and had been  driven for more than 43,000 miles. The car was repaired 
at no cost to Mrs G and she was provided with a courtesy car when her car was 
being repaired. The car passed MOT tests in May 2017, May 2018 and May 2019, 
when its mileage was recorded respectively as 41,957,  44,959 and 51,214 miles.
Given all of this, Im not persuaded that theres  enough evidence  to show  that the 
cars faulty.  Mrs G was able to use it to drive more  than 6,000 miles between May 
2018 and May 2019. Nor am I persuaded that theres enough evidence  to show that 
there was a fault with the cars gearbox, central  junction box or gasket  when it was 
supplied to Mrs G. I agree  that the fault with the turbo  was present when the car was 
supplied to her  but it was repaired and I find that Mrs G accepted the repair  and 
two years of free servicing at that time instead of rejecting the car. 
And Im not persuaded that the issues that have occurred with the car since 
November 2017  are enough  to show that it wasnt as durable as it was reasonable 
for Mrs G to expect it to be, or that it wasnt of satisfactory quality,  when it was 
supplied to her.
Land Rover Financial Services offered to pay £250 compensation to Mrs G when she 
complained to it in March  2018. I consider £250  (in addition to the two years  of free 
servicing) to be fair and reasonable compensation for the distress  and inconvenience 
that Mrs Gs been caused. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require Land Rover Financial Services to now accept Mrs Gs rejection of the car, to 
pay her a higher  amount of compensation than its already offered to her or to take 
any other action in response  to her complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs G or Land  Rover Financial Services, my 
provisional decision was that Land  Rover Financial Services  should  pay to Mrs G the £250 
that it had already offered  to her.
Ref: DRN80437573Mrs Gs husband says that hes disappointed by my provisional decision and its not how he 
imagined it would turn out - but he says that it looks like nothing  will change  the outcome and 
it's taken  far too long.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that Black Horse Limited, trading as Land 
Rover Financial Services, should pay to Mrs G the £250 that its already offered to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8043757