K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complained  about Masthaven Bank Limited. They  applied  for a second  
charge mortgage,  but Masthavens  surveyor valued the property at a lower  figure  than 
Mr and Mrs J believed it was worth. As a result, Masthaven would only offer them a smaller 
loan than they wanted.
background
In December 2017, Mr and Mrs J used a broker to apply to Masthaven for a secured loan for 
£155,880. This was for a second charge on their property, and the purpose was to 
consolidate unsecured debts. On the application form they said that the balance they 
currently owed their first charge lender was £294,360 and they believed the current  value  of 
their property was £600,000.
On 19 January 2018, surveyors  instructed  by Masthaven  completed a valuation.  
They valued  Mr and Mrs Js property at £480,000.  This meant  Masthaven  wouldnt 
lend as much as Mr and Mrs J wanted  to borrow.
Mr and Mrs J, through their broker, disputed the valuation. They sent information  including  
details of properties which they believed  were comparable, and they pointed out that they 
had bought a substantial  amount of additional  land. Initially, Masthavens surveyor  refused to 
change his valuation  figure. Mr and Mrs Js broker sent more  information.
On 9 February Masthavens  surveyor reviewed the file, including comparables provided. 
It also considered other comparables. The surveyor told Masthaven that he was prepared to 
increase the valuation to £525,000.  This letter said that the new figure took into account the 
fact that the property had been recently  refurbished to a high standard  and had a large 
garden area.
As part of its standard processes, Masthaven referred the figures to a different independent 
surveyor. That surveyor said that the revised  figure of £525,000 was excessive compared to 
similar properties which had sold in the previous year, even taking the extra land into 
account. He looked at the details, including location,  size and sold prices,  for a number of 
other properties. He said that all the evidence confirmed that the figure should be under 
£500,000 and he described a figure  of £480,000  as a bit of a stretch.. 
So on 23 March Masthaven issued an offer for £65,880, which was less than Mr and Mrs J 
wanted to borrow.  They complained, but Masthaven didnt uphold  their complaint.
Mr and Mrs J werent  satisfied and complained to this service. They said theyd had their 
property valued  at £625,000. They believed Masthavens decision had affected the loans 
affordability, because  the unsecured credit which theyd wanted to include in the loan and 
couldnt, was being charged at a much  higher  interest rate elsewhere. They  wanted  
Masthaven to accept  a higher valuation for the property, and increase its offer of a loan.
 
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. He explained that lending decisions 
are for lenders to make, as theyre  taking on the risk. So this service  couldnt influence 
whether or not a lender should  lend, but could only check whether a fair process had been 
followed. The adjudicator had seen  that Masthaven had given fair consideration to the 
documents. So he didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Ref: DRN82827492Mr and Mrs J werent  satisfied. They  said, in summary, that:
-when the first surveyor had increased  his valuation to £525,000, hed offered to send 
Masthaven a full valuation report with reasons, but Masthaven had ignored this;
-theyd sent a valuation  of their own to Masthaven which  had given a figure  of £600,000 
to £625,000. And they said they would still be willing  to pay for a further  independent 
valuation to prove that Masthavens valuation had been too low;
-when refusing to lend as much as Mr and Mrs J had requested,  Masthaven  hadnt taken 
into account  the fact that Mr and Mrs J would be paying  the rest of their unsecured 
debts over a shorter timescale  and at much higher interest  rates. This reduced 
affordability and they believed  Masthaven  wasnt behaving as a responsible  lender;
-an online valuation website showed  a valuation in excess of £600,000;
-they had never been told about the higher valuation. They said that if theyd known they 
would have  applied  elsewhere.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents show that Masthaven didnt just commission one survey  and then refuse to 
consider Mr and Mrs Js brokers complaints that the valuation  was wrong. As Ive set out 
above, Masthaven twice referred the original valuation figure back to the same surveyor, 
following objections from Mr and Mrs Js broker. The first time,  the surveyor refused to 
increase the figure from £480,000, and the second  time, on 9 February,  the surveyor did 
increase the figure to £525,000. And it then referred  the disputed figures to another 
surveyor. So I consider  Masthaven  fairly  considered the objections  which  Mr and Mrs Js 
broker had put forward. 
Masthaven was entitled to refer the matter to a different surveyor  for a final view,  and was 
acting responsibly  in trying to ensure  it had a robust figure, especially in view of the 
significant difference between the original  valuation figure of £480,000, and Mr and Mrs Js 
statement on the application form that the valuation was £600,000.  I consider  it was 
responsible for Masthaven to consult a number of independent surveyors,  as it chose to do.
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that they werent  told about the fact that the original surveyor  had, 
on the third time he was asked, increased the valuation. Theyve said Masthaven didnt  keep 
them informed, so they could decide  whether  to go elsewhere. But the 9 February  letter was 
only one part of a process by which Masthaven  was checking what a proper figure would be, 
and I dont consider  it had to notify Mr and Mrs J of every stage in its internal checking 
processes. It told them, through their broker, of the reduced valuation and the offer was 
based on that.  
Ref: DRN82827493The letter from the final surveyor consulted by Masthaven is detailed,  and shows that the 
surveyor considered  size, location, whether or not a property had been extended, and the 
extra land which Mr and Mrs J owned.  The letter doesnt rely solely  on websites, but on the 
surveyors professional  knowledge and expertise. Also,  the surveyor approached the task by 
starting from scratch on what  he considered a fair valuation. The approach wasnt  just to 
take the other surveyors figures and accept  or reject them.  So even if the first surveyor  had 
put in a full written report, as Mr and Mrs J would have liked,  I consider its unlikely to have 
made a difference  because the final surveyor based his decision on his own professional 
assessment, as he was entitled to do.    
Masthaven was entitled to rely on its own choice of professionally-qualified surveyor  to make 
a final determination.  It didnt have to accept  the report Mr and Mrs J submitted which had a 
£600,000 to £625,000  valuation, nor rely on a particular website to which  Mr and Mrs J have 
referred. A lender has to satisfy itself about the risk its taking on. I find that Masthaven  did 
this, by using  qualified surveyors and taking their professional opinions.  
Mr and Mrs J have also argued that, by refusing to lend them as much as they wanted, 
Masthaven was effectively making  their overall  debt situation less affordable  because they 
were paying  higher rates on the other loans. But lenders arent  forced to lend more  because 
of a consumers  debt situation elsewhere. Masthavens lending  decision was purely on the 
basis of what it was willing to lend Mr and Mrs J, based on the risk to the bank.
Mr and Mrs J have said that if theyd  been  kept informed by Masthaven, they could  have 
gone elsewhere for their borrowing. But the offer sets out what the bank was willing to lend 
them. As this was less than theyd applied for, it would have been for them to discuss  the 
offer with the broker, because theyd used a broker rather than making  a direct application to 
Masthaven. If the offer wasnt what Mr and Mrs J were willing to accept, it would have been 
possible for them to look for alternative options,  with their brokers help.  
So I find that Masthaven didnt act unreasonably  or unfairly during its process  to assess  the 
valuation of Mr and Mrs Js property.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 January 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8282749