K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2003. Miss L says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her the 
PPI.
Miss L took out the store card and PPI in a shop   but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ls case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain the reasons  for my decision below.
One of the first things I need to consider is if FICL  made it clear that the PPI was an optional  
product, and gained Miss Ls consent to add it to her account, and having done so, I think  
that it did. Ill explain why.
When Miss L first brought her complaint to this service, she said that she was told that in 
order to pass the credit check to get the card, she needed to take out PPI  she wasnt told 
there would be a cost.  Then, when our adjudicator  didnt uphold  her complaint, she said that 
she wasnt aware that she had signed for PPI, and that a box might have been  ticked after 
her application  had been completed.
FICL has provided a copy of Miss Ls store card application  on this I can see that the PPI 
is presented as optional, and Miss L has signed to select it. The section for PPI contains the 
wording Account cover (only sign this box if you require Account Cover)  Yes, I would like to 
protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please debit my Account with 
the relevant monthly premium until further notice. The application  also contains an 
explanation of Account Cover above this section. Theres no tick selecting  the policy  this 
style of application didnt need  one, just a signature   and this is separate  to Miss Ls 
signature for the card.
So taking everything in to account,  I think that FICL did enough  to show that the PPI was 
optional, and that Miss L chose to take it out. Although I can understand why she doesnt 
remember this as it was so long ago.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss L got the information  she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ref: DRN89622722Ive thought about everything Miss L has said, including what shes  said about having good 
sick pay from her employer so she didnt need the policy. But the PPI couldve paid out for 
longer than she wouldve received her full pay for, so this point doesnt change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8962272