K820x#14complaint 
Mrs F is seeking  to recover £4,249.99 from Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide), 
which was sent to a third party as part of a scam. 
Nationwide says it is not liable for the loss and it could  not reasonably have intervened  or 
done more than it did to try and recoup the money  from the receiving bank. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the complaint  should not be upheld for the following reasons:
It is agreed by both parties that Mrs F authorised the two payments totalling £4,249.99. 
In August  2016  she bought a membership for savings on holidays following a 
presentation from a travel  company.  At this time, she was given documentation  with 
relevant details of the membership, and paid the first payment  by debit card of £499.99. 
She later made a payment of £3,750 in a Nationwide  branch. She couldnt recall  whether 
she was asked any questions about why she was making this payment at the time.  
It transpired that the directors of the travel  company were later taken to court  for offences  
relating to a failure to act with professional diligence and for using aggressive 
commercial practices in relation to this travel company. The company went  into 
administration in 2018. So Mrs F never utilised the membership she had signed up for. 
Mrs F first approached  Nationwide to notify them that she may have been a victim of 
fraud when  she had not heard from the travel company a few months  on from the sale.  
They explained that the debit card payment didnt have the same protection  as a credit 
card payment and didnt  raise a fraud complaint. Mrs F was unhappy as she explained 
she would  have used  her credit card if she had known this. 
In April 2019 Mrs F got in touch with Nationwide to again ask them to refund the 
payments as she felt she had been a victim  of fraud. She had learned that the people  
involved in the travel company had been  convicted. Because the branch staff didnt  raise  
a dispute when she had first got in touch  in 2016,  Nationwide agreed to refund the 
£499.99 debit  card payment as a gesture of goodwill. They also offered £100  due to their 
error. So, the £3,750 payment is the only outstanding transaction for me to consider. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment. Whilst Nationwide are unable  to provide 
proof of the transaction due to the time that has passed, Mrs F doesnt  dispute that she 
made the payment and it is visible on her bank  statements from the time.  So I think  it is 
likely that she completed the relevant security processes in branch to authenticate and 
authorise this transaction. So, although  she intended to receive services in the form of 
holiday discounts that she didnt receive, under the relevant regulations and terms and 
conditions of her account, Mrs F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good  industry practice at the time, I 
consider Nationwide should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN80654682Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to 
counter various  risks, including anti-money  laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other 
things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and 
scams in recent years, which banks  are generally more familiar with than the 
average customer.
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or 
in some cases declined  to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Nationwide declined to refund Mrs F the remaining £3,750 as it didnt believe it had 
done anything  wrong in carrying  out Mrs Fs instructions to make the payment. It said 
there wasnt anything  about the payment itself that shouldve put Nationwide on notice 
that Mrs F mightve  been  at risk of financial harm. 
Nationwide went on to say that even if the transaction had prompted a discussion  with 
Mrs F, there  was no scam to have been  uncovered.  Mrs F could have provided  
information and documentation that she received  at the point of sale. The company was 
not dissolved until 2018 and the prosecutions  hadnt taken place, and so there wouldve 
been no reason  to believe Mrs F mightve  been  at risk of financial harm  at this point. Our 
investigator also came to the view that Nationwide had done  nothing wrong by following 
Mrs Fs payment instructions  and I agree. Ill explain why. 
Im satisfied having reviewed Mrs Fs bank  statements that the £3,750  payment was 
unusual for Mrs F and uncharacteristic for her account  that is to say there were no 
comparable payments in recent times.  It is unclear  whether any scam  conversation  or 
warning was had  neither Mrs F nor Nationwide have been able to provide an account 
of what happened  at the time. Given that there  were  no notes made, I will assume  that 
at most a brief conversation about the payment took place. And based on this 
assumption I think Nationwide ought  fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good  
practice, to have done more here - I think it ought to have made enquiries about the 
purpose of and the circumstances leading up to the payment before it processed  it. 
However I dont believe  this would have made a difference  in this case. The starting 
position is that Nationwide has an obligation  to debit its customers  accounts in line with 
its customers mandate. So in this case  by allowing the payment to leave the account, it 
was following Mrs Fs payment instruction. 
Thats not to say they shouldnt attempt to identify potentially fraudulent  payments. But I 
agree that this wasnt possible here.  It is clear that Mrs F was the victim of aggressive 
and misleading  sales tactics, for which the former directors have been prosecuted. But 
the travel  company was a legitimate company at the time the transaction  was made. 
From reviewing the evidence and details about this case, I am not persuaded that the 
payments were in line with a scam as such  more that Mrs F was a victim of mis-
selling. Mrs F had received a file with relevant information prior to making the payment, 
she had attended  a presentation detailing the membership, and had made  the decision 
Ref: DRN80654683with her husband to pay for the membership. The company was not dissolved until 2018 
 some two years after the payment. She has expressed herself that she wouldnt have 
made the payment had she not thought  it wasnt legitimate  so it seems unlikely that 
being questioned about the payment would have prevented her from continuing to want 
to make the payment. Nor am I convinced that Nationwide discovered  anything,  or could 
have discovered  anything,  that would result  in their suspicions  being  raised  such that 
they could have prevented this payment from going through - contrary  to Mrs Fs 
instructions. 
By the time Mrs F first contacted Nationwide about  these  payments, there  was no 
money in the beneficiary account.  I do think they should have done more  at the time to 
try and assist Mrs F, but as it was not clearly a scam and the beneficiary account  had no 
funds remaining, I am satisfied that they could not have successfully recovered any of 
her funds. And I think that their offer to refund the payment of £499 and pay a further  
£100 for their errors here is fair and reasonable. 
I understand from reviewing the correspondence between Mrs F and our investigator 
after the view that she does not necessarily  disagree with these findings  but remains  
unhappy that she had never been properly advised of the benefits and protections  
available on different types of accounts   namely  current accounts versus  credit card 
accounts. I also agree with our investigator that Nationwide havent done anything  
wrong in not setting out the difference between a credit and debit card to Mrs F at 
account opening or some other  time. Whilst different protections are in place depending 
on whether a payment is made on a debit card or a credit card,  Nationwide  are not 
expected to provide such details  particularly as Mrs F didnt  have or try to open a 
credit card account. 
I understand Mrs F is unhappy that she feels she was made to open a current account 
when her account at the time became obsolete if it didnt offer the same  protections as a 
credit card account. But Nationwide were  not obliged to advise her on a product that she 
was not applying for or provide general financial  advice. 
I do appreciate that Mrs F feels  she should  be refunded the full payment. And whilst I 
cannot agree that it was a scam in the traditional  sense  I do agree that she has been a 
victim of wrong-doing. I do feel considerable sympathy for what Mrs F has been  through 
here. But unfortunately, whilst Im sorry to have to disappoint her, Im not persuaded that 
this was a consequence of any specific failing  on the part of Nationwide. 
Ref: DRN80654684my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8065468