K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva)  breached  General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) by disclosing  some  of her personal  information to her 
husband  from who she is separated.  She says this has caused her  and her family, a 
significant amount  of distress.  She wants appropriate compensation to be paid.
background
Mrs N holds a number  of plans with Aviva including a personal pension forming  part of her 
employers pension scheme  which is administered by Aviva.  In June 2018 Mrs N contacted 
Aviva to update  her address  as she had separated from her husband. Aviva  actioned the 
request but it didnt  change the address on all her plans, including her pension. In July 2018 
Mrs N rang Aviva asking it to change the beneficiaries of her pension  fund. However,  Aviva   
although it made the necessary changes, sent confirmation to Mrs Ns previous address, 
where her husband, from whom she was separated, lived. In August  2018 Aviva wrote to 
Mrs N at her correct  address and explained  what had happened enclosing  the same  
documentation. It apologised  for the error  and for not updating her address as requested.  
Mrs N thought this was a breach of GDPR and raised queries about the breach in 
August 2018  and, as she hadnt  received  a response chased  again in 
October and November 2018.   Unhappy at the lack of response Mrs N complained.  She said 
that Aviva  had clearly  breached GDPR, hadnt  reported the matter  to the Information 
Commissioners Office  (ICO) as quickly as it should have done and hadnt dealt with her 
complaint in a timely manner. However,  she was most upset with the impact this had on her 
relationship with her husband and her children. She believed   after having  separated   that 
she and her husband had made positive steps  to repair their relationship, but the GDPR 
breach meant her husband accused her of cutting him out and things deteriorated 
afterwards. She said the impact on her and her children had been severe. 
Aviva explained  it hadnt  originally referred the breach to one of its data protection  officers,  
but it had now done that and also reported the matter to the ICO. But it apologised  both for 
the GDPR  breach and the delay in responding to Mrs Ns complaint. It offered £300 as 
compensation for those matters and an extra £50 in vouchers, for her children, as a goodwill 
gesture. 
Mrs N didnt think Aviva had considered  the impact this had on her so Aviva  reconsidered 
the matter and increased its offer of compensation to £500.  Mrs N accepted the 
compensation but remained unhappy  with the overall outcome so she brought  her complaint 
to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and said she thought the amount of 
compensation Aviva had paid was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
Mrs N didnt agree as she said the level of compensation  wasnt sufficient for the distress 
shed been caused and shed also suffered  financially and emotionally which she didnt think 
had been fully taken into account. As no resolution could be found  the case  has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
Ref: DRN86448602the investigators view and for broadly  the same reasons.  I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs N so Ill explain why.
I understand Mrs Ns wider concerns and I have carefully  considered the points she raised 
with the investigator  after the assessment was issued. In summary  these  were:
a serious Data Breach had impacted her and her family. 
The late reporting  of the breach to the ICO.
Avivas failings in handling  her complaints  about the matter. 
Avivas failings over her subject data request.
Avivas assessment of the impact that this had on her and her family.
Ive seen how in July 2018 Aviva  wrote to Mrs N, at her previous address, enclosing  
confirmation that shed changed  the beneficiaries of her pension to her two children. 
Although my role is not usually to determine if any data protection  laws have been breached 
 thats for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide   Aviva has acknowledged 
a breach has occurred  and its confirmed this has been reported to the ICO.  
Mrs Ns pension fund hasnt been affected  by this issue,  and I havent  seen any evidence  of 
any direct  financial costs  Mrs N has suffered purely as a result of the breach. So, what  I 
have to decide is the emotional impact of the data protection  breach on Mrs N and her 
children, and what should be appropriate compensation for that impact. And, in addition, the 
consequences of the delays in dealing with her complaint. 
Aviva has accepted and apologised  for the delay in reporting the matter  to the ICO and for 
the delay in responding to Mrs Ns complaint despite  her asking several  times for a 
response. And although Aviva has offered some  explanation for what  happened its 
accepted these were  failings  caused by human error. So Im satisfied that Aviva has 
acknowledged the mistakes and made an offer of compensation  for the distress  and 
inconvenience this caused Mrs N. But Mrs N doesnt think Aviva has gone  far enough in 
correctly assessing  the impact  the breach had on her and her family.
Mrs N has explained that  although she was separated from her husband,  they were trying  
for a reconciliation and she thought some positive steps had been taken to improve the 
relationship. But she said that these positive  steps  had been  destroyed by the GDPR breach 
and things had since deteriorated. She said this has cost her financially and emotionally as 
well as having an impact  on her children. And I have sympathy for Mrs Ns position  as I 
can appreciate her personal  situation must have been very difficult at the time the pension 
beneficiary amendment  was mistakenly  sent to her previous address and was seen  by her 
husband. 
But I note that Mrs N contacted Aviva  to make her children  the beneficiaries of her pension 
fund  thereby  excluding  her husband. I dont  think she would have wanted her husband to 
have been made aware of this change. If she had she would have told him. So based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think it was clear the relationship had already started to break down  I 
take Mrs Ns point  that some progress  had been  made to repair things, but at the same time 
it seems unlikely to me that she was anticipating that things would get back  to the way they 
were  given her decision to change the beneficiaries of her pension. 
It wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that Avivas mistake had been responsible for the 
difficulties Mr and Mrs N were having,  or the fact that these had led her to change the 
Ref: DRN86448603beneficiaries of her pension. Ive also taken into account that Aviva didnt write with the 
intention of notifying Mrs Ns husband  that the beneficiaries had been  changed   its 
unfortunately the case that he was able to see details of a letter which  was addressed  to her.
Clearly this mistake in sending the confirmation to Mrs Ns old address came  at a very 
delicate point  in Mrs Ns relationship. Whilst I dont  underestimate its impact, including on 
Mrs Ns children, its not easy to be clear  on how different a position Mrs N and her children 
might have been in by now,  had Aviva not contributed to the situation  in the way it did. And if 
it was possible to identify  a direct impact  on Mrs Ns children, Im not able to award  
compensation to them  for this. I can only consider the indirect effect of that on Mrs N, the 
complainant.
I think this matter  which  wasnt caused by Mrs N  would have caused her a lot of concern 
and upset at what  was already a difficult time for her. She had a right to expect  a request to 
change her address  not to have led to the trouble and upset that it did, including the worry it 
caused about the impact on her children. But Avivas acknowledged  that, and made an offer 
to compensate Mrs N for the errors it made  and the impact those errors had on her and her 
family. 
Ive carefully considered  Avivas offer. And I appreciate how serious this situation  is. So Ive 
decided this matter  has had a significant impact on Mrs N and her situation. This service  
would usually recommend awards  of around £500  for that level of trouble and upset, so I 
think it would  be unfair of me to award any more.  And as Aviva  has offered to pay £500 plus 
£50 worth of vouchers, I think thats in line with what I would have  recommended Aviva to 
pay, and therefore a fair and reasonable resolution  for all the matters involved together  in the 
circumstances of what happened here.
my final decision
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has already made  an offer to pay Mrs N £500 plus £50 in 
vouchers to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8644860