K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, recorded a 
default to her credit file when she had agreed a repayment plan with them.
background
Ms F had a catalogue  shopping account  with Very. But she had difficulty  meeting 
repayments during  her maternity leave. She contacted  Very and a repayment plan was 
agreed. Ms F is upset that despite a repayment  plan being  in place Very still reported  her 
account as defaulted in February 2018.
Very didnt agree. They  said theyd agreed  repayment plans with Ms F in September 2015  
and August 2017. They explained they werent aware of Ms Fs financial difficulties until 
August 2017 and that they endeavoured to help her by referring her to organisations who 
could help; not charging interest or making  any charges from November 2017 and placing a 
couple of temporary  holds  on the account  so that charges werent applied. But they said 
when no payments were  received from November 2017 they decided to default the account 
in February 2018.  They  therefore didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
But Ms F disagreed and she therefore  referred her complaint to this service  where  our 
adjudicator provided  an opinion.  He noted  that Ms F hadnt made payments towards  her 
debt for a prolonged period and he therefore thought  Very had been within their rights to 
issue a default.  He understood that the default hadnt been  received by Ms F as shed 
changed address  but he explained that he didnt think it would  be fair to hold Very 
accountable for that as Ms F hadnt  informed  them  of the change.  
He also thought that it was clear Very had been  sympathetic to Ms Fs financial difficulties  as 
theyd directed her to sources of help and offered some assistance. He understood that the 
debt had been sold to a debt collection company  in March 2018 and he explained that Very 
were able to do that within the terms of the contract they had with Ms F. So he didnt  think 
Very needed to take any further action.
But Ms F disagreed and she therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms F but I agree with the adjudicators opinion  and for similar 
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN83815102The terms and conditions  of Ms Fs credit  agreement  with Very said that they could demand 
full payment or terminate the account  if she failed to pay the minimum payment  by the due 
date.
So I think they were  within  their rights to default the account when Ms F missed  successive 
payments from August  2017. And it would be unreasonable of me to suggest they should 
have posted the default to Ms Fs current address as its clear she hadnt told them  shed 
moved. 
They were  also within their rights  to sell the debt in March 2018  without giving Ms F notice. 
That right was contained in term 24 of the terms and conditions and said we may transfer 
any or all of our rights  or arrange  for any other person to carry them out on our behalf,  
without giving notice  to you.
Once Very had been made aware  of Ms Fs financial difficulties I would  expect them to have 
behaved positively  and sympathetically to her. I think they did and I say that because  I can 
see that they froze the account on a couple  of occasions; removed interest and charges from 
late 2017; refunded  charges in June  2017; directed Ms F to agencies who could assist with 
debt counselling and agreed repayment plans with her to ease the burden.
So overall, Im not persuaded theres  been any evidence that Very have not managed Ms Fs 
situation appropriately and in particular,  I believe  they were entitled  to raise a default when 
payments were not received.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8381510