K822xcomplaint
Mr A1 complains as the executor  of the estate  of his late father, Mr A2. He is unhappy that 
Saga Services Limited misled him as to the terms of an unoccupied clause in the home 
insurance policy for the late Mr A2s property.
background
In October  2017 Mr A1 rang Saga  to advise it, in respect of the home  insurance  policy,  that 
Mr A2 had passed  away. He advised  that the property would be unoccupied. Sagas  adviser 
told him that an endorsement  would be applied to the policy. This was that in respect of 
certain perils  like storm and escape  of water,  if the home was unoccupied for more  than 
60 days an additional excess of £250  would be payable in respect  of any claim.
The policy was due to renew in November  2017 so at the same  time as advising Mr A1 of 
the endorsement a renewal invitation was sent out. This referred to a different  endorsement  
which applied namely that only certain  perils would be covered (eg Fire, lightning, explosion,  
earthquake, a FLEE  endorsement)  but it didnt include storm or escape  of water.
The policy was due for renewal in November  2018 on the same  terms.  However shortly  
before that Mr A1 contacted Saga to make a claim in respect of storm damage.  He was 
initially told by the claims adviser that storm damage was covered. But he was told later the 
same day that in fact due to the subsequent endorsement the property wasnt covered for 
storm damage at all. Subsequently  in December 2018 he called to cancel the policy. He was 
told in that call that storm damage  was covered.
Saga maintained that the FLEE endorsement applied.  It apologised for Mr A1 being given 
the wrong advice  when  he rang and paid him £50 for the inconvenience  caused.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the FLEE endorsement wasnt  clear and 
that having told Mr A1 three times the policy covered storm damage,  Saga should  reassess  
the claim and if payable and the estate had incurred any repair  costs  should refund those 
with 8% interest.
Saga didnt agree, it said the first endorsement applied until renewal and that the documents  
made it clear  that the FLEE endorsement applied from the renewal date in November 2017.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that I thought the FLEE endorsement was clear. 
However I thought  that when Mr A1 applied as executor for the policy  to be transferred he 
was misled into believing storm  cover was in force  under  the policy as amended. So I said 
that as it was responsible for the error, Saga  should  compensate the estate by acting on the 
claim as if storm  cover  was actually in place.  I said that it should  do this by instructing an 
independent loss adjuster  to assess the claim and any payment. I further said it should  pay a 
further £50 compensation. 
Saga accepted my provisional view.  It said it understood that the repairs  have  been  carried 
out at the property and therefore it will not be possible for an independent  loss adjustor to 
reassess the claim. However, it had received  an invoice for repairs  from Mr A1 in the amount 
of £6,907.40, and it agreed  to pay this, minus  the £250 excess  referred  to in the 
Unoccupancy Clause,  plus the 8% interest referred  to in my decision, from the date payment 
was made  in behalf of the estate.  It further  agreed  to pay £50 compensation.
Ref: DRN85560982Mr A1 confirmed he agreed with this proposal, so long as payment was made by bank 
transfer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following  were my provisional findings:
When Mr A1 spoke to Saga in October 2017 the adviser told him that the following 
endorsement would apply:
Unoccupancy clause  when  your home  is left unattended  for more than 60 consecutive 
days we will not: - Pay the first £250  in respect  of any incident of loss or damage resulting 
from storm or flood, escape  of water or oil, malicious  damage  or theft or attempted  theft. This 
amount applies  in addition to any amount shown as not being covered in your policy  or 
schedule.
Ive listened to that call, and nowhere in that call did the adviser  say that the above  
endorsement only applied  for a limited  time.  Nor did he say that the new FLEE endorsement 
would apply from the renewal date of the policy.
The FLEE endorsement said:
You have told us that the buildings are vacant. We will only cover damage caused  by fire or 
smoke not arising  from a gradually operating cause, explosion, lightning  or earthquake, 
impact by aircraft or other aerial  devices or anything dropped from them  and liability  to the 
public only.
I think it is clear. It specifically sets out what damage  will be covered. Saga quoted slightly  
different wording in its response to Mr A1, which I think was unclear,  but the above wording 
applied and was set out in the policy documents.
But whether  or not this particular endorsement  was clear Mr A1 was still misled as to which  
endorsement applied.  I think  it was reasonable for him to have understood what  he was told 
in the October  2017 call, namely that storm damage would be covered but with an additional 
excess. If hed been  advised that the FLEE endorsement superseded the initial  endorsement 
I think its likely that he would have  looked for cover elsewhere. So I think  he was prejudiced  
by this misunderstanding. Ill set out what I think should happen below.
Ive noted that, when  the claim was made in November 2018  Mr A1 was told initially  that the 
policy did have storm cover. But he was told later the same  day that a mistake  had been 
made and that he didnt  in fact have storm cover. Later in December 2018 when he phoned  
to cancel the policy he was told that the policy had storm cover.  But I dont think  that either 
phone call should lead to Saga actually paying  out for the storm damage (except as I shall 
set out below).  The mistake was corrected quickly and whilst  in the second call the adviser 
was again mistaken,  I cant see that Mr A1 took any steps to his detriment to start any 
repairs believing the insurer would pay. At no stage was he told the claim would  be paid.
But, as Ive said Mr A1 was misled  into believing the estate had cover for storm damage. 
The actual damage hasnt been assessed, so I dont know whether there should be a pay-
Ref: DRN85560983out for the damage. In my view the issue here is the failure to explain clearly  the terms of the 
policy. As Saga is responsible for the sale of and administration of the policy, it (rather than 
the insurer) should  compensate the estate if the claim would otherwise have been paid. It 
should approach the insurer and ask if it will consider the claim as if storm damage  was 
covered.
Saga should  then pay compensation  to the estate  of Mr A2 equivalent to the amount that 
would have been paid out if the insurer says the claim would have been successful. If the 
insurer won't agree to do this, Saga should appoint an independent loss adjuster at its 
expense to assess the claim in the same way. If the claim would have been  successful  and 
the estate has paid for any repairs the insurer or loss adjuster should assess  those repairs 
and if it assess those  as being payable then Saga  should reimburse  the cost of those 
repairs. It should pay simple interest  at 8% from the date of any payment  on behalf of the 
estate until it pays.
As regards  compensation, I cant award  any directly  to Mr A1, since  he is acting in his 
capacity as executor.  But I can award compensation for the inconvenience caused  to him on 
behalf of the estate. I think  Saga  should pay a further £50 (in addition to the £50 already 
paid)
As it appears that the repairs  have now been carried out, and Saga is agreeable to paying 
the cost of those  repairs, less the excess,  I dont intend to comment  any further. I have 
amended the proposed decision to reflect this agreement. Apart from that, I confirm  that my 
provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Saga Services Limited to
pay to the estate of Mr A2, by bank transfer, £6657.40 (the cost of the repairs  net of the 
£250 excess). It should pay simple interest* on any such payment at 8% per year from 
the date that was paid out until repayment.
pay a further £50 compensation for inconvenience to the estate of Mr A2.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
* Saga Services Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any interest paid. Should  
Mr A1 request it, Saga Services Limited should provide him with a certificate  showing how much tax has been 
taken off so that, if appropriate,  he can reclaim  it.
Ref: DRN8556098