K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that a supplier failed to fit a door correctly. She says she therefore has a 
like right to claim  against the provider  of credit who are Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited, trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance (BPF), as theres been a breach of contract.
background
Mrs B has been represented  by her daughter but for ease  I will refer to Mrs B throughout this 
decision.
Mrs B had a new door fitted in January 2018.  She paid for the door through a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with BPF. 
But Mrs B said she had problems with the door. She initially complained that the door would 
not lock properly and in March 2018 an engineer attended to remedy the problem. But 
thereafter, Mrs B complained that there was a gap in the door.
An engineer  attended her property to resolve the issue in April 2018 but the suppliers notes  
say he was denied  access. Mrs B complained  to BPF. She said that she had a like claim 
against them  as the provider of credit and she wanted them to remove the new door and refit 
her old one.
BPF didnt  agree. They explained that the supplier was happy to remedy  any problem Mrs B 
had with the door but that unless she allowed them access  they could not resolve the 
problem for her. They did provide two payments of £50 in recognition  of the distress and 
inconvenience that had been caused  but they didnt think they needed to take any further 
action.
Mrs B therefore referred her complaint to this service and our investigator  provided his 
opinion. He thought BPFs  offer was sufficient in the circumstances. He thought  they should 
be allowed to repair the door but if a repair wasnt possible then alternative remedies could 
be discussed. 
He didnt think it was reasonable to suggest BPF arrange to refit the old door as he noted 
this had been disposed of and, whilst  he understood Mrs B had suggested the engineer had 
visited on several occasions and had been unsuccessful in his attempts to fix the door, he 
noted there was only evidence  of a repair being carried  out once and the property  being  
visited twice. 
He understood  that Mrs B was disappointed that BPF had been  charging interest on unpaid 
instalments whilst the complaint was being  processed but he didnt think  that was 
unreasonable of BPF: he thought it normal.
So Mrs B asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN85181922I know it will disappoint Mrs B but I agree with the investigators view. So please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made with a fixed  sum loan,  as is the 
case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through a section 75 claim. This 
section of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement  has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against  the 
supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs B made a claim through them for 
breach of contract.
Whilst Mrs B has suggested the supplier  returned on several occasions to fix the door and 
that there  was a suggestion it could not be fixed, Ive not seen any additional evidence  of this 
other than Mrs Bs testimony. I dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest repairs  to 
the door have  been allowed or have  failed. If there  was agreement that the door could not be 
repaired I think it would be likely the supplier  would accept  this and not be prepared to attend 
any further. But thats not the case and here BPF are happy to arrange a visit to have the 
matter resolved. I think thats  a reasonable solution  to Mrs Bs problems.
I dont think its reasonable to expect them to have retained the door. Its clear this has now 
been recycled and refitting it is therefore not a viable option.
I understand that Mrs B is disappointed with the salespersons  approach  and complains he 
was pushy. But shes not raised this complaint with the business  and will need  to do so in 
order to give them a chance to consider it and provide a response. If she remains 
dissatisfied with that response  she can, of course, refer the matter to this service.
I also understand that Mrs B is unhappy that BPF have  continued  to charge interest  on the 
debt whilst this complaint has been  in process.  Whilst  some  businesses are willing to 
suspend payments whilst this service is reviewing  a complaint, thats  not always the case  
and this service cant insist they do so. So, I dont think BPF have been unreasonable  here 
and overall, I wont be asking them to take any additional action.
Ref: DRN85181923my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8518192