K820x#14complaint
Mrs C says Santander UK Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001, Mrs C took out a PPI policy alongside a mortgage when speaking  to Santander over 
the phone. The policy protected her monthly mortgage repayments in the event  of accident, 
sickness and unemployment. Mrs C paid a monthly amount for the policy.  The mortgage and 
policy ended in November  2004.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs C says she was told she would not get the mortgage if she didnt also take the 
insurance. She also feels the policy wasnt suitable for her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs C to remember exactly what was discussed when 
she took out the policy as this was many  years ago now.  Her recollections about the phone 
call are not detailed  and I understand why this would be the case. This means that what she 
says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. I have to base my 
decision on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the available  
information and the wider  circumstances.
Theres no call recording available  now. But, I think Santander phoned Mrs C to make her 
aware of the benefits of having  PPI with her mortgage. And, based on what  this service  
knows about the way Santander  sold PPI over the phone around this time, Ive no reason to 
think that Santander wouldnt have explained to Mrs C that PPI was optional.  So I think     
Mrs C wouldve been made aware  that it was up to her to say if she wanted to have  it.
Mrs Cs mortgage was a major financial commitment, and her home  wouldve been  at risk if 
her mortgage payments  werent kept up to date. So, I am persuaded Mrs C wouldve wanted 
this type of cover and would have chosen  to have it. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the call Mrs C was persuaded of the benefits that the 
policy offered her. And PPI was added to Mrs Cs account when she chose to buy it. 
Ref: DRN81733702Santander says it recommended the PPI to Mrs C and it seems to have been  right for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The policy  wouldve  paid out a 
benefit for up to 12 months in the event of a successful accident or sickness claim  and 
repeat claims were possible providing  Mrs C with long term cover for her mortgage.  The 
policy covered her mortgage repayments  for longer than Mrs C told us she wouldve 
received sick pay from her employer (6 months  full and 6 months half sick pay) if she 
couldnt work  and it wouldve been paid in addition  to any work benefits Mrs C mightve  
got. So I think the policy couldve provided  a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if 
Mrs C mightve  had extra costs as a result  of being off work as a result of illness  or disability.  
The policy couldve  also paid out for up to 12 months at a time if Mrs C lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. So PPI couldve been a useful benefit in whats likely to 
have been difficult  circumstances  for Mrs C if hed needed to make  a claim. 
It is possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But Mrs C 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those. So I dont think  its likely this wouldve 
made any difference to her decision to take out the policy.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mrs C during the phone call. But, even if they 
were I dont think it would  have made a difference for the reasons given already. Mrs C 
hasnt suggested  that she couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And she wouldve signed 
an instruction form to her bank to cover the cost. So it seems  she was happy at the time to 
pay for PPI. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs C still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even  if shed been better  informed as 
the policy gave  her useful protection in her particular situation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8173370