K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Miss R and Mr L say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss R and Mr L case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss R and Mr L say they werent  aware of the PPI and if theyd  known about  it they 
would have claimed when Mr L was made redundant. But for the PPI to be set up they 
would have had to sign a separate application form and direct debit. And when the PPI 
started they were  sent a letter confirming the policy  had been  set up and this included a 
policy schedule that set out the cover it provided. So I think  its likely Santander made it 
clear that Miss R and Mr L didnt  have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why they cant remember  this. 
Santander says it recommended the PPI to Miss R and Mr L so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example they werent affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover  and they seem to have had a need  for the cover.  Theyve said they 
wouldnt have got any sick pay from their employers and had no other ways or making 
the mortgage repayments if they werent  working.  So it seems the PPI would have been 
useful.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss R and Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss R 
and Mr L.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss R and Mr L because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss R and Mr L about that. Because Santander didnt 
tell Miss R and Mr L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
Ref: DRN82749912From what  Miss R and Mr L have said it seems they possibly could have made a successful 
claim when  Mr L was made redundant. They might want  to contact the insurer to see if it is 
possible to make a backdated claim.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Miss R and Mr L any commission  and profit  share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Santander should also pay back  to Miss R and 
Mr L any extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Miss R and Mr L the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Miss R and Mr L 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss R and Mr L can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss R and Mr L.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Miss R and Mr L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss R and Mr L 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.  
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8274991