K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about delay in receiving money after completion of a further advance 
with Lloyds Bank PLC.  
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs A applied to Lloyds for a further  advance. The further  
advance completed  on 2 October 2018.  Lloyds sent the money to Mr As account ending 
464. 
Mr and Mrs A say that they didnt receive the money until 16 October 2018. They say that 
Mr A had to make  several  calls to Lloyds and visit the branch. They say they had to borrow 
money from elsewhere because of the delays. 
Lloyds said it wasnt responsible for the delay in Mr and Mr A receiving the money  but that 
when Mr A raised the matter, it should have  sent a missing payment request. Lloyds gave 
Mr and Mrs A compensation  of £100 in relation to the customer  service they received. 
Our investigator thought that Lloyds  had treated Mr and Mrs A fairly. She said she hadnt 
seen anything to show that Lloyds caused the delay.  The investigator thought that the 
receiving bank had caused the delay. 
Our investigator said that it wouldve been reasonable for Lloyds to send a missing payment 
request when Mr A raised the matter but that wouldnt have guaranteed that they received 
the money sooner. The investigator  thought that the compensation  of £100 was fair. She 
said that Lloyds  said it would consider Mr As reasonable costs  in phoning and visiting  the 
branch.
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that compensation of £100  wasnt enough. 
He said that he doesnt keep track of his petrol  costs and he didnt have  extra phone 
charges. Mr A said that both banks are blaming each other. He asked that an ombudsman  
consider his complaint, so it was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive seen evidence  that Lloyds sent the further  advance money to Mr As bank on 
2 October 2018. I havent seen anything to suggest  that Lloyds delayed  in sending the 
payment. When Lloyds queried  the matter, the receiving bank said that every payment is 
subject to internal  screening, which may cause  delay. 
Lloyds says that it should have sent a missing payment request when Mr A first raised the 
matter. Its paid Mr and Mrs A compensation of £100 in relation to that. I think thats fair. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs A but, based  on what  Ive seen, I dont  think  Lloyds was 
responsible for the delay in them receiving  the further advance money. So, I dont ask it to 
do any more than its already done.  
Ref: DRN80773232my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs As 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8077323