K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Darlington Building Society  mis-sold them  a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in 2000. Mr and Mrs M paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. The policy was set 
up to cover both Mr and Mrs M.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Darlington  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
I think Mr and Mrs Ms PPI policy was mis-sold  here, because Mrs M wasnt  eligible for it. It 
required her to be working 16 or more hours  a week, but she says she was working less 
than this. This means the policy wasnt of any use to her.
I think that what Mr and Mrs M have told us about  Mrs Ms hours is most likely to be correct. 
The mortgage documents from the sale describe her as working part-time,  and the amount 
of her salary makes  it unlikely  that she was working  16 hours a week  or more.
Darlington says it wouldve given Mr and Mrs M a leaflet with their PPI application, which  
wouldve had the eligibility criteria in it. The sample copy  its given us doesnt appear to have 
a date on it, so I cant be sure this actually  applies  to the time of Mr and Mrs Ms sale. But in 
any case, I cant see that Darlington checked  Mr or Mrs Ms eligibility  or asked them  for this 
information as part of their PPI application. Nor does there appear to have been  anything in 
the actual application process that prominently told Mr and Mrs M what  the eligibility  criteria 
were, or that told them they needed to read important information in the leaflet. During the 
application process, the only reference to there being eligibility criteria is in the small print at 
the bottom  of the PPI application, and it does not say what  the criteria are.
Further, the fact remains that Darlington sold Mr and Mrs M a policy  that Mrs M was not 
eligible to claim on. That means Mr and Mrs M were  paying for cover that half of the parties  
could not use. And it meant  that if Mrs M was off sick or lost her job, then Mr and Mrs M 
wouldve found themselves with no insurance  for her, and that couldve potentially put their 
mortgage at risk  despite them paying to cover  Mrs M for many  years.
I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought this joint policy  if theyd realised Mrs M wasnt  
even eligible to claim on it. So it follows that this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN84758492Darlington says it was initially under the impression that only Mr M wanted to complain, and 
so it has asked for more  time to deal with the concerns about Mrs M. I understand what it is 
saying. However, Darlington was aware throughout the case that this was a joint policy.  
When Mr and Mrs M came to our service, we wrote to Darlington to ask for its side of the 
story, and it was clear  in our letter that this was a joint complaint. Then our adjudicator 
assessed the case, again as a joint complaint, and Darlington had a second chance to give 
its side of things for the joint complaint.  We then gave Darlington a third opportunity to send 
us any submissions before the case was passed  to me to decide as a joint complaint. So 
I think that Darlington has had ample  opportunity to deal with this complaint as a joint one, 
and Im afraid that I do not think it would be fair or helpful or delay the case.
putting things right
Darlington should put Mr and Mrs M in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
this PPI policy. The policy should  be cancelled, if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and 
Darlington should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M back the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they gets it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Darlington can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Darlington to take off tax from this interest. Darlington must  give 
Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs M can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Darlington  Building 
Society should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8475849