K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that HFC Bank  Limited mis-sold them a single premium payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2003 when  they applied for a joint personal loan.
background
Mr and Mrs S complained to this Service. They said HFC Bank mis-sold them  a PPI policy in 
2003 through the actions  of their lender at the time,  a company I will call Company E. Mr 
and Mrs S said ownership of the policy passed  from Company  E to HFC Bank,  (which  itself 
is now part of another banking group but was not part of the other banking group at the time 
of the sale).  Mr S said they paid the loan and PPI payments. They said the PPI was added 
because Company E told them  the loan would only be granted with PPI. They conclude HFC 
Bank must now be responsible for looking  at the complaint. So they complained against HFC 
Bank.
HFC Bank said it was not liable for the PPI sale because it was clear from Mr and Mrs Ss 
sales documents that the policy was sold by a broker company  I will call it broker  
Company F. 
Our adjudicator thought HFC Bank  was not responsible for the PPI sale and she sent a 
detailed letter to Mr and Mrs S exploring other avenues for them. Mr and Mrs S disagreed 
with our adjudicators  view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again.
I issued my provisional decision in January 2019  explaining  why I thought HFC Bank was 
not responsible  for the PPI sale; and as I didnt think it had done anything wrong in the PPI 
sale, I also could not uphold the mis-sale complaint against HFC Bank. I said this was 
because it looked  like the loan application  was showing  the PPI might have been sold by 
broker Company F and not by Company E or, therefore, HFC Bank.
We sent a copy of my provisional decision to both parties and invited them  to comment.  HFC 
Bank had nothing further to add. Mr S was ill so we gave him more time to respond.  Mr and 
Mrs S later added they had received  a commission offer from another banking  group about 
their PPI policy.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but their commission  offer was not 
made by HFC Bank  so I cannot consider  it in this decision which is only about HFC Bank. 
Our adjudicator has already advised  Mr and Mrs S that if they are not happy  with the way the 
commission payment is resolved, they can bring  a new complaint to this Service  to see if we 
can assist any further, although the assistance we give might be limited. 
Mr and Mrs S did not bring  any new evidence  against HFC Bank for me to consider - so I 
see no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision about liability  
and whether HFC Bank mis-sold the PPI in 2003.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
The first thing I need to decide is whether HFC Bank is responsible  for the sale of the PPI 
policy. If I decide it is, then I can decide  whether the sale happened as it shouldve  done. If I 
dont think HFC was responsible for the sale to Mr and Mrs S, then Im not able to consider a 
Ref: DRN82906382PPI mis-sale complaint against it  and this will mean I cannot uphold  the mis-sale  complaint 
against it. 
Having looked  at the evidence, I do not think that HFC Bank sold the PPI policy to Mr and 
Mrs S. So it follows  that if HFC Bank did nothing wrong during the PPI sale, I will not be 
upholding this PPI mis-sale complaint against HFC Bank. I know this will disappoint Mr and 
Mrs S, so I will explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Mr and Mrs S about the sale. They  recalled they 
were applying for a joint personal loan. Mr and Mrs S said Company E specifically told them 
they could not get the loan without the PPI. So they signed all the forms they were told to 
sign. As Company  E was later acquired by HFC Bank, Mr and Mrs S conclude the complaint 
should now be looked at by HFC Bank.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by HFC Bank. HFC explained it was not the lender at 
the time Mr and Mrs S bought the policy. It also said the loan application shows the loan and 
PPI were sold by broker Company F. Mr and Mrs S said they did not know  who Company F 
was.
I looked very carefully at the loan application. It shows  the name of Company F as the 
broker. At the top of the form, it shows  a tick to confirm PPI is required for one of the 
applicants. The form then has Mr and Mrs Ss personal details, their incomes and outgoings 
and the form is signed  by Mr and Mrs S (in Mrs Ss previous name). So I can reasonably 
assume they gave  their personal details and requested insurance  cover  at the same time as 
they applied for the loan in 2003  with Company F. So I dont think the PPI was sold to them 
by HFC Bank.  
I have also seen the loan agreement signed  in 2003 which shows the lender, Company E, 
added the PPI to the loan as it appears it was requested to do so in the loan application 
completed by the broker Company F. I looked into whether HFC Bank can be made 
responsible for this PPI sale through Company Es actions on the loan agreement.  However, 
in this case, as I do not think Company E sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, I cannot agree with 
Mr and Mrs S that Company Es actions  when completing the loan agreement will make HFC 
Bank responsible for looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint.
As I think  HFC Bank was not responsible for the PPI sale, it follows  that it also was not 
responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly. So I am not going to uphold this PPI mis-
sale complaint against  HFC Bank.  
I can see our investigator did a very thorough investigation and reported on all possible 
avenues of complaint  to Mr and Mrs S but  and I am sorry to disappoint them  - this will be 
as far as this Service can take this complaint against HFC Bank.  
my final decision
My final decision is that HFC Bank Limited  is not responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale 
complaint and I do not uphold this complaint against  HFC Bank Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
Ref: DRN82906383ombudsman
Ref: DRN8290638