K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the settlement figure hes received from The Co-operative Bank Plc 
(Co-op) on his career development  loan. Hes also unhappy with the general customer 
service hes received from Co-op.  
background
Mr B was due to start making  repayments  on his loan in November 2018. In October 2018 
he contacted Co-op  to enquire about  paying off the loan early. Mr B says he isnt happy  with 
the settlement  figure he received. Hes also dissatisfied with the customer  service hes 
experienced from Co-op, which  includes  failing  to register his complaint  and also advising 
him of the incorrect process on how to request a breakdown of his loan settlement figure.
Co-op didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst they acknowledged customer service  failings, they 
felt the £100 compensation already paid to Mr B was sufficient. And they say the settlement 
figure already provided to Mr B is correct and that theyre unable to break  this figure  down 
any further. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr B referred the case to our service. An adjudicator has 
already looked  at this matter. He also wasnt prepared to uphold the complaint, for reasons 
in line with those  already  expressed by Co-op.
Mr B has now asked  that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman. Ive carefully  reviewed 
the further submissions  Mr B has made  since the adjudicator issued their view.  In particular I 
note Mr B says Co-op has never provided him with details of how his settlement figure has 
been arrived at. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Whilst Ive considered all the evidence, 
this decision will focus on what I think are the key issues  in dispute. 
Clearly there is evidence of customer service  failings  on behalf of Co-op.  These include, but 
are not limited to, not calling Mr B back and providing him with the wrong information about 
the process for requesting  a breakdown of his loan settlement figure. I can imagine how 
frustrating this must have  been for Mr B. But I see Co-op has already credited Mr Bs 
account with £100 compensation to recognise  these service  errors. And I think this amount  
of compensation  is fair. Based on all the facts I wouldnt  look to increase this amount. I note 
Mr B is unhappy that Co-op took until the last day within  the 8 week  timeframe to formally 
respond to his complaint. But just like the adjudicator,  I cant  say Co-op has acted  
unreasonably here.  Whilst I appreciate how distressing this must  have  been  for Mr B, they 
have still complied with the stipulated timeframe.
Errors were clearly made by Co-op,  including those surrounding taking  payments.  Co-op  has 
advised our service that Mr B made a partial  early settlement payment and that they failed to 
notify him that this had been returned  to him. But I think these issues have now all been 
rectified. And Im satisfied Mr B hasnt been left financially  affected  by any mistakes made by 
Co-op. Co-op has told our service  that Mr B has been paid £172.38 to cover  the difference  in 
the settlement  figures from November 2018  to January 2019 to ensure hes in the same  
position as he was before the errors occurred with the servicing  of his loan.
Ref: DRN86027172Co-op has told us that certain information cant be provided to Mr B as it is business 
sensitive. This isnt uncommon  in such circumstances. However Ive looked at the 
information they have been able to share with Mr B. And I note the explanation from Co-op  
that the calculations have  been input into the system  and are designed  to comply with the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and the Consumer  Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations 2004. 
From looking  carefully at the information Co-op  has provided to our service Im satisfied that 
the loan settlement figure has been calculated correctly. Co-op used an automated 
calculator to get the settlement figure. And this would  have applied any relevant  interest  and 
charges. I appreciate  Mr B is very insistent on having a more detailed breakdown of the 
settlement figure. But Co-op has explained  this isnt possible. And I dont think theyve acted 
unreasonably. 
On balance of all the evidence Im not going  to uphold this complaint. I think Co-op has 
acted fairly  towards  Mr B. And I think  theyve  paid Mr B reasonable compensation for their 
customer service  failings.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020. 
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8602717