K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) provided  details of their 
personal account held at another bank to a third party (a tenant with whom  they were in 
dispute) without permission. This allowed the tenant to pay money into Mr and Mrs Gs 
personal account, which created difficulties with the eviction process, and caused them  
anxiety and stress.
background
In September and October 2017, Mr and Mrs G received two payments of £750  from a 
tenant into an account they held with bank B. Their account  at bank B is a personal 
account and not used for business transactions. Mr and Mrs G told us that they have  
never given  details of this account to the tenant. As the payments originated from their 
RBS account,  Mr and Mrs G believe that someone at that bank  with connections to their 
tenant must  have provided details  of their bank  B account. Mr and Mrs G live in a very 
small town, in a close-knit agricultural community where everyone  is connected.
Mr and Mrs G complained to RBS, who gave them £250 compensation. RBS said that 
although they couldnt see how the tenant could have got hold of Mr and Mrs Gs bank B 
details through their staff, they also didnt have  any reason to doubt what  Mr and Mrs G 
had told them. RBS also accepted that Mr and Mrs G had received poor customer 
service following their complaint  to the bank. Mr and Mrs G think that the amount  of £250 
doesnt reflect the impact  the situation has had on them.  They feel that the offer of 
compensation was an admission of liability by RBS but that the amount of compensation 
given is inadequate.
The investigator thought that the offer by RBS was a reasonable one for the reasons I have 
set out above.  Mr and Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators opinion so the complaint has 
now been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and whether I think its fair to ask RBS 
to increase  the amount of compensation they should  pay Mr and Mrs G.
While I appreciate that RBS provided  compensation of £250, I consider  that this related 
to the distress and inconvenience that Mr and Mrs G had suffered,  together with poor 
service following their complaint, rather than being an admission of liability by the bank. 
This is because RBS has mentioned  the poor service in its correspondence and also 
stated that it cannot see how they could have been responsible for providing the details 
of Mr and Mrs Gs account with bank B to their tenant.
RBS have confirmed  to the investigator  that branch  staff access a customers account using 
chip and pin technology.  This means  that staff are unable to access an account without the 
customers themselves being present, or by having a customers bank card.  Because of this, 
bank staff wouldnt be able to get hold of the bank  details  themselves even if they were  
asked for it, without some form of authorisation by Mr and/or Mrs G.
Ref: DRN83636682Ive also considered what Mr and Mrs G have told us about how they manage  their RBS and 
bank B accounts  and, in particular, how they have never given details of their bank B 
account to any of their tenants. While I accept this, it doesnt  mean  that their bank B details  
were provided to anyone  by RBS.
Mr and Mrs G also told us that they had never made  a payment from their RBS account  to 
their account  at bank  B. This would mean  that their bank B details wouldnt already be 
recorded within their RBS account, making  it even less likely that RBS was the source of the 
information that was disclosed.
my final decision
Although I can appreciate  that this whole  situation has caused  Mr and Mrs G a lot of anxiety, 
having gone through the file, I cant see anything that establishes  that The Royal  Bank of 
Scotland Plc was responsible for releasing details of Mr and Mrs Gs personal  account. As a 
result, I dont think the bank has behaved unreasonably and I will not be asking them  to pay 
any more than the £250 they have already provided.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 January  2020. 
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8363668