K821x#15complaint
Mrs P feels  that Shop Direct  Financial  Company  Limited has treated  her unfairly in the way it 
dealt with her when she returned  a tumble  dryer  shed  bought  from it.
background
Mrs P bought a tumble dryer through Shop Direct. She realised she didnt want  it and had it 
returned. She got her money  back through the chargeback process. But Shop Direct  set up 
a second account for her and chased  her for the cost of the dryer  for a substantial  amount of 
time. So she complained  and it continued  to chase her for the price of the dryer.
Shop Direct after some  time and investigation accepted it had made  an error. It had thought  
that Mrs P had been refunded twice  for the dryer so it had set up an account, logged 
adverse information  on her credit file and repeatedly chased  Mrs P for what it thought was a 
double refund. It now accepts it got things wrong. It has agreed to close the second account, 
remove all adverse information on Mrs P credit  file relating to the dryer  and pay her £400  to 
reflect the distress and inconvenience caused in line with our investigators views on the 
matter. 
Mrs P thinks  this is a long way short of fair redress for what has happened.  She points to the 
fact that shes very ill and Shop Direct knew this whilst it chased her. As Mrs P remains  
unhappy her complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
Firstly Id like to say that Im very sorry to hear of Mrs Ps chronic illnesses  and conditions.  I 
appreciate these must be incredibly tough  times for her in this stage of her life. I hope the 
treatment shes receiving  makes things as best it can.
Shop Direct doesnt dispute the facts of the case.  It now accepts it got things wrong  and 
chased Mrs P for an extended period of time when it shouldnt have. Mrs P points to phone  
calls and her attempts  to resolve the matter over a protracted period of time which were 
unsuccessful.
So the only thing  in dispute  now is the level of award for distress  and inconvenience. Its 
clear that Mrs P received her refund some  time ago. So she wasnt out of pocket for a 
prolonged period. However its clear  that she was chased for money incorrectly repeatedly.
Its also clear  that Mrs P is very ill and Shop Direct knew this. This makes the nature of 
whats happened to Mrs P significantly worse for her as she was less able to cope with being 
chased and her attempts to rectify matters would  have been harder for her than someone 
who wasnt very ill. Having said that just because  someone is terribly  ill doesnt mean that 
awards for distress and inconvenience  are limitless  in terms of size. I must determine an 
award that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs P thinks  £400 is somewhat short of where  it should be. Shop Direct  has agreed to pay it 
but feels its slightly excessive. Taking things in the round it is my decision that £400 along 
with the removal  of all adverse  data on Mrs Ps credit file is a fair amount considering  she 
Ref: DRN83244582wasnt out of pocket long. I think it fairly reflects what happened and the particular 
circumstances of Mrs P.
I appreciate this isnt the decision that Mrs P wants to hear.  But I think that Shop Direct has 
agreed an amount  which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Lastly I wish Mrs P all the best in her battle  with illness.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold the complaint  against  Shop Direct Financial 
Company Limited.  I direct it to pay £400 to Mrs P as quickly  as it can and within 28 days  of 
this decisions date.  It should take steps to remove all adverse data on her credit file that 
relates to this complaint within the same  timeframe if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8324458