K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains MBNA Limited (MBNA) didnt tell him when the promotional  offers  on his 
credit card were coming to an end. Hes also unhappy that it changed  his account to receive 
paperless statements  without his consent and didnt change it back  to paper statements 
when he asked it to. 
background
In 2012, Mr M took advantage of two 0% interest  promotional offers on his credit card  a 
balance transfer  of £1,500  in June and a money  transfer of £1,750 in October. Both the 
offers expired after 12 months. Mr M took out a further 0% interest  money transfer for £3,500 
in October 2013.  This promotional rate expired on 1 April 2015. 
In July 2018, Mr M contacted MBNA to query  the balance on his credit  card.  He was told the 
promotional rates had expired and so interest was being charged at the standard  rate. And 
as Mr M was only making the minimum payment each month, the balance was increasing  
overall. Mr M complained,  saying  he hadnt  been  receiving  his statements for some time and 
wasnt notified in writing when the promotional rates had come to an end. He also explained 
that between 2013 and 2016, a family member was being treated for cancer. As a result,  and 
due to the fact he wasnt  receiving paper  statements, he forgot about this credit  card.
MBNA didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint, explaining information about the promotional  offers  
was on his credit card statements. Also, it had listened to a call dating back to April 2015 
where Mr M was informed the promotional offers had ended. MBNA also explained the 
account was always set up to receive paperless  statements  and notifications  were sent to 
him each  time a statement  was produced. In any event, Mr M would have received annual 
statements by post in 2017 and 2018. So he would have been aware of the balance and the 
interest charged over the year. 
Mr M disagreed and referred  the matter  to us. Our investigator concluded MBNA hadnt 
acted unfairly as his account had been set up to receive paperless statements. He was 
satisfied MBNA had shown notifications were  sent each time a statement was generated and 
the statement  itself set out the expiry date of any promotional  offers.  He was also satisfied 
call notes from 2015 showed Mr M had been told the promotional  rates  had come  to an end 
and that annual statements had been sent annually for a number of years. 
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he explained he had been  
receiving paper statements until November 2012  but MBNA  changed  to paperless without 
his consent. He asked for it to be changed  back but this never happened. He also said any 
emails from MBNA would have gone  to his spam  folder and he doesnt bank online. He said 
he had no recollection  of the phone call in 2015.  He questioned why MBNA  changed  his 
account to paperless  statements and why they didnt notify him by post of a change in the 
promotional rate. He pointed  out it had confirmed no emails has been opened, so this should  
have prompted  MBNA  to contact him sooner. Mr M also disagreed  that annual  statements 
were sent since 2012. He pointed out that MBNA  told him they were sent in 2017 and 2018.  
He didnt receive the one sent in 2017 but did receive the one sent in 2018.
The investigator clarified with MBNA about  Mr M having paper statements previously, and it 
said this was possible. It further  explained that customers  were  sent an enclosure with two 
statements in 2012 explaining the change to paperless. The investigator wasnt persuaded 
Ref: DRN80792632this altered his findings as the terms and conditions of the account allowed changes 
provided advance  notification was given, which MBNA had done. 
Mr M still disagreed pointing out that MBNA said some customers would revert  to paperless 
statements. He felt he was being discriminated against. He reiterated MBNA told him it had 
only written to him by post in 2017 and 2018.  As Mr M asked for his complaint to be referred 
to an ombudsman, it has come to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr M but Im not upholding  it. Ill explain why below.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr M and MBNA that although Ive only summarised the 
background and arguments above,  I have considered everything I have been provided with 
in its entirety. I understand Mr M and his family  were  going  through  a difficult time around 
2013. And I accept his priorities  were different. But for me conclude MBNA  has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably,  Id need to be persuaded it did something wrong.  
I accept that when Mr M first opened  his account it was likely he had paper statements. 
However, a business  is entitled to change its business practices.  The terms and conditions 
of his account allow for this with advance notice.  Im satisfied MBNA  sent an enclosure 
within customers statements to notify them  of the change to paperless statements. I find 
nothing about  this change discriminatory, particularly as a customer  can revert to paper if 
they wish to. 
I know Mr M says he requested his statements revert to paper format. But there  is no record  
of that with MBNA.  There is a record of him requesting updates by post when he accessed  
his account online in October 2013, to make  another balance  transfer  request and change  
his mobile number. But that wasnt enough  to change his statements, which  needed to be 
requested separately. I dont know if this is the request that Mr M recalls; if it is this explains  
why it never  reached  MBNA. 
The statements  Mr M was notified  of by email set out the expiry dates of the promotional 
rates he was enjoying.  So I am satisfied than MBNA notified Mr M of the relevant expiry  
dates, in writing. There was no requirement for this to have been done  in a separate  
communication as well. The question for me is whether  MBNA  correctly sent them.  MBNAs 
records show the e-mails were sent to the same email address we have for Mr M and so Im 
satisfied they were likely received. 
I have considered Mr Ms arguments that he never banked  online and thinks  the e-mails 
were sent to his spam  folder. But as seen from MBNAs records, Mr M recollections arent 
entirely accurate,  as he did bank online in October 2013, when he requested  a further 
balance transfer  and updated his details. I do accept Mr M may not recall this given  the 
difficult circumstances he was facing  during  that time. But this does nevertheless show  he 
was banking online. I dont think I could fairly find MBNA at fault if Mr M didnt check  his 
statements or if he never changed the filters on his e-mail account.
In further support of this, Mr M did call MBNA in April 2015 about charges applied  to his 
account. This was because of a missed payment and so he incurred a late payment fee and 
the promotional  rate removed. Not only am I satisfied  Mr M was told about the promotional 
Ref: DRN80792633rates expiring during this call, but I would question how he even knew about the charges if, 
as he says, he wasnt accessing his statements at the time. I appreciate Mr M doesnt  recall 
this conversation. But I find it hard to believe charges that were correctly  applied would have 
been refunded  without  contact from the customer.   
Finally, I turn to Mr Ms comments about  the annual statements. I accept that MBNA only 
referred to annual statements from 2107 and 2018 in its final response. But, having read the 
response, I dont agree  it said it only sent annual statements then, although  I accept Mr M 
inferred that. It has provided  records showing annual statements have been  sent annually,  
not just in 2017 and 2018 and so Im satisfied this information would also have notified Mr M 
of the charges. 
Overall, Im satisfied that MBNA did provide notification to Mr M of the expiry of his 
promotional rates. It follows that I dont find MBNA  did anything  wrong  and so I find no basis  
on which to ask it to refund any interest.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8079263