K822xcomplaint
Miss T complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC delayed opening a stocks and shares  ISA, 
which incurred a loss for her due to a lost opportunity to make a specific share purchase.
background 
In March 2019 Miss T started  the process of opening the ISA with the specific  intention of 
purchasing £5,000 worth of her employers  shares. There followed a series of problems  
some technical, some  involving the need for identification documentation  that meant 
despite numerous phone conversations and an escalation of the matter,  the account wasnt  
opened until 23 April 2019. At that point Miss T bought the shares, but a smaller amount. 
Barclays acknowledged that Miss Ts experience  had been very poor and offered her 
compensation of £400 and a gift. But Miss T didnt accept this. She felt the delays had 
caused her a financial loss of almost £2,000, based on the difference in the share  price  at 
the point shed wanted to buy them, in early March 2019, and at the point  when she would 
then have sold them, around a month later. She felt that Barclays had committed to making  
good this type of loss during conversations  about the account opening issues.
Miss T referred  her complaint  to this service, but our investigator concluded that Barclays  
offer was fair as it stood.  Having listened  to the recordings of the phone calls between  
Miss T and Barclays, the investigator didnt feel that it had encouraged Miss T to stay with its 
service or dissuaded her from buying the shares  elsewhere. Conversely, she felt the 
recordings indicated Barclays had suggested  making the required purchase with the 
registrar or another provider. In respect of making good any loss, the investigator felt that 
although Barclays had said it would investigate any losses, it had made no commitment to 
cover them. 
Miss T didnt accept the investigators view.  She didnt feel that Barclays  offer put her back 
in the position shed  have  been in if the delays hadnt occurred, reiterating that shed  lost 
almost £2,000, which had, in turn, had a knock-on effect to other  investments. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matters been referred to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Clearly Miss Ts experience of Barclays account  opening  process  was very frustrating and 
demonstrated a far from satisfactory level of customer  service.  But, purely in terms of the 
service failure, I think that the compensation offered for the trouble and upset caused is fair 
in the circumstances, and in line with what I wouldve directed had Barclays  not already 
made the offer. 
But that isnt really the issue  at the heart of Miss Ts complaint. As noted,  she is of the view 
that the delays  caused  her a specific financial loss, in short  because  with the account 
unavailable she couldnt buy her intended  shares at a price that couldve been capitalised  
upon with a sale a few weeks later. 
Ref: DRN84378982As Ive said,  I understand her frustration  with the situation and I note her desire  to have an 
account with  and put the sale through  Barclays, as she other products with it. But 
ultimately, in respect of the share purchase, there was no absolute requirement that it be 
made through Barclays. And if the motivation behind the purchase  was entirely short-term 
price-based I see no reason why Miss T couldnt have mitigated the situation  and used an 
alternative provider,  as Barclays did suggest. 
I dont think that given the discussion  of using alternatives that took place, it would be fair to 
hold Barclays responsible for any hypothetical  loss. It isnt even the case that we can be 
certain that if Miss T had bought the shares in March, she would definitely have sold at the 
April peak. 
Im aware Miss T did complete  a purchase  once  the account was open and bought  fewer  
shares  £2,000 worth  at a price actually lower  than the mid-March price.  I accept that the 
apparent benefit  of being able to buy the shares  at the lower price isnt really the issue here, 
as its the lost opportunity to take advantage  of the short term rise in March/April  that the real 
concern. But, as Ive said, there was a clear  alternative way of still benefitting  from that rise 
that couldve been used. So, as such,  I dont feel I can reasonably direct Barclays  to offer 
more than it already  has done. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as Im satisfied 
the offer already made by Barclays Bank UK PLC is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8437898