K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc gave  him incorrect information about an account which 
he opened with them.
background
Mr M had a TSB Classic Account. He went into a TSB branch in late June 2018 and spoke 
to a member of staff about a Classic Plus Account. He says he was told that the Classic Plus 
Account would pay cashback of £5 each month if he made  two direct debit payments from 
the account, and that cashback of £5 each month  could also be earned on debit card 
transactions.
Mr M upgraded his account to a Classic Plus Account  in early July 2018.  But after a while he 
noticed that he wasnt receiving any cashback,  so he complained  to TSB. At around the 
same time, Mr M had experienced problems  in connection with TSBs systems  upgrade.  His 
complaint was about that issue (which Ill call the IT issue) as well as this cashback issue.
TSB sent their final response letter to Mr M in January 2019. In that letter, they upheld  both 
aspects of Mr Ms complaint and awarded him compensation of £150  in respect of all the 
issues he had raised. Mr M wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought  his complaint to 
this service. At that point, it was separated into two separate complaints. The IT issue has 
been resolved  by this service already, so Im not looking  at that here.  All Im looking at is the 
cashback issue.
When our investigator looked  into this, she thought  that Mr M didnt  qualify to receive  
cashback under the terms and conditions of the offer. This was because he upgraded to the 
Classic Plus Account after the offer had expired. But our investigator thought that, in light of 
what Mr M had been told in the branch,  the fair outcome here would be for TSB to pay £75 
to Mr M. This reflected the total amount of cashback he would have been able to receive if 
the offer had still been running  at the time he was told about  it (£50),  as well as some 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  the situation has caused him.
Mr M agreed  with the investigators findings,  but TSB didnt. They say that the £150  offered 
in their final response letter included compensation for this issue. And that what they offered 
was enough, particularly as Mr M wasnt eligible to receive cashback at the time he 
upgraded his account. So the case has been referred to an ombudsman to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that, in the course of the investigation  by this service, TSB have  said that they dont 
have any notes of the discussion which took place in the branch between Mr M and their 
staff member. And they dont have a copy  of the account upgrade application, which  they 
say was probably completed online  by Mr M. They say that Mr M must have made a general 
enquiry in the branch  about the Classic Plus Account and that it seems  the staff member 
assumed incorrectly that he already had this account.
But TSB had already  investigated the complaint  before  Mr M brought it to this service. And in 
their final response letter, they accepted that the information Mr M had been given was 
Ref: DRN86601692incorrect. They said Were sorry you were misinformed regarding  the rewards of your 
Classic Plus Account. We believe in putting our customers first in everything we do, and all 
our Partners are trained to be helpful  in providing the correct information  at all times. We aim 
to provide excellent customer service and were very sorry to hear that this wasnt  what  you 
experienced. They then made an offer of compensation  which related to all the issues  Mr M 
had complained about (that is, both the IT issues and the cashback issue).
So I think its fair to start from the position that TSB have  accepted  that the information Mr M 
was given in the branch was wrong,  given they offered to compensate  him for that mistake.  
So I dont  need  to go over what conversations took place  in the branch or the reasons for 
them. What  I need to look at here is whether TSB need to compensate Mr M for their 
mistake and, if so, by how much.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions which applied to the cashback offer. I agree with our 
investigator that, at the time Mr M visited the branch and when he opened the account, the 
offer was no longer valid. It applied to accounts opened before 8 June 2018. 
TSB say that Mr M upgraded  the account  himself online and that, in doing so, he would have 
accepted the terms and conditions. They say that, if he had read the terms and conditions, 
he would  have realised  that the information he had been given  in the branch was wrong. So 
he could have found out before completing  the application that he wouldnt receive cashback 
on the Classic Plus Account. They say it wouldnt  be fair to other customers  if they agreed to 
pay him the cashback when he wasnt eligible to receive it in the first place.
But I think they do need to compensate Mr M for the wrong information he was given in the 
branch. They accepted  this in principle in their final response letter. Due to the timing  of the 
account upgrade,  I find it likely that Mr M decided to change to a Classic Plus Account 
because of what hed been told in the branch. He wanted to take advantage of the monthly 
cashback incentives, so he changed his account from a Classic to a Classic Plus.
Im satisfied that, as TSB say, Mr M would have had to accept the terms and conditions  of 
the account before being able to upgrade it. But I dont  think its fair for TSB to put all the 
responsibility on to Mr M for knowing  whether the cashback incentive applied  or not. Where  
Mr M was given  information in person about  a product, I think  its reasonable that he relied 
on that. I wouldnt expect  Mr M to have then double checked whether this was the case in 
the terms and conditions, as hed already asked for clarity on this and I cant see why he 
wouldve doubted what he was told. 
TSB say that, in any event, they have  already compensated  Mr M for this issue. But thats  
not the case. At the time Mr Ms complaint  was brought  to this service,  TSB had offered 
compensation of £150 for all the issues combined.  But Mr M hadnt  accepted  that, so it was 
only an offer.  So our service then considered  if this was fair.
Our adjudicator who looked at the IT case recommended  a compensation payment for the 
impact that matter had on Mr M. That compensation was purely for the IT issue and TSB 
accepted that recommendation.  So at present,  no compensation has been  paid to Mr M in 
respect of the cashback issue. So TSB does  need  to compensate  Mr M for this. I think  £75 is 
a reasonable amount to reflect the impact this had on Mr M here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold this complaint.  TSB Bank plc must now pay £75 to Mr M.
Ref: DRN86601693Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8660169