K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Allianz Insurance Plc have unfairly declined  part of her claim made on 
her Equine insurance policy.
background
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview here. Mrs B had an equine insurance policy  to cover her horse F and cover 
started on 10 September 2017.
In November 2017 Mrs B made a claim. The claim form she submitted at the time recorded 
three different conditions.  Bi-Lateral Stifle Lameness,  Gastric Ulcers and Impinging  or 
Kissing Spines  (KS). The KS was formally diagnosed on 26 October 2017. There were also 
some service issues around the claim and Mrs Bs policy. 
Allianz say theyd been unable to collect the policy premiums by direct debit and therefore 
the policy had lapsed. They later agreed  they hadnt  made Mrs B aware of the failed direct 
debits and re-instated the policy and considered  the claim. 
Ultimately the claim was accepted and paid for Stifle Lameness and for Gastric Ulcers, but 
the claim for KS was declined. Allianz say that this was excluded from cover on the basis  of 
an exclusion. The exclusion  related to conditions  that showed signs  in the first 14 days  of 
cover. 
Mrs B complained to Allianz. They accepted there  had been  delays  and service  issues  in 
relation to the policy and the handling of the claim,  so they offered £150 compensation. But 
they maintained  their position on declining the claim for KS. 
The matter  was referred to our service and one of our investigators  thought  it should  be 
upheld. He didnt  think the policy term had been  fairly applied and recommended  that Allianz 
reconsider the claim without reference to the same policy term. Allianz disagreed  and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In May 2020  I issued  a provisional  decision in which  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Bs policy says under the heading  significant exclusions   Your insurance does not 
cover any illness which starts in the first 14 days of the policy. Further to this the policy 
provides these specific definitions:
Illness which starts in the first 14 days  of cover:  An illness  that showed clinical signs  in 
the first 14 days of your horses first policy year. 
Clinical Signs: A change(s) in your horses  normal healthy state, condition, appearance or 
bodily function.
Conditions like this are common to this type of insurance and I dont think they are inherently 
unfair. An insurer can decide the terms on which they want to offer cover  and here Allianz 
are excluding illnesses  which  show signs in the first 14 days of a policy  starting. 
Ref: DRN81933542Part of the evidence Ive considered is a text message sent by Mrs B on 
16 September 2017, this was 6 days into her cover. Part of this says [F] has just started 
presenting a very short stride behind in trot, like hopping on his back legs and hes changing 
his hind lead in canter. I was wondering whether  you would assess him first or advise that I 
go straight to a vet. I find this compelling evidence that there had been a change in Fs 
normal bodily function that I think can fairly be considered to fall under  the above  definition of 
a clinical sign. 
Part of the extra information  I requested from Allianz  was a report  written by a veterinary 
consultant Mr F. After reviewing Fs notes and history he said in relation to Mrs Bs text: 
This is a clear indication  of a horse in pain and lame, eventually diagnosed  as lameness 
and impinging  dorsal  spinesIn my opinion the condition  is pre-existing  inception. Clinical  
signs were present before inception or at least within the first seven  days. The condition 
would not have been caused by an accident in that time
I think it is fair for Allianz to rely on Mr Fs opinion when making decisions about a claim as 
they arent themselves qualified to interpret  Fs history.  Mr F is of the opinion  that the clinical  
signs (as evidenced by Mrs Bs text) are linked to KS. As those signs are documented in the 
first 14 days  of the policy, I dont think its unfair for Allianz to rely on the above term when 
declining that part of the claim. 
Mrs B has questioned why other aspects of her claim were covered  when signs appeared 
around the same time. Allianz have explained that they considered the date of onset for 
Gastric Ulcers  to be outside  the first 14 days of cover. And the claim for stifle lameness they 
considered an injury. They said injuries  arent subject to the same policy term  which is 
specific to illnesses in the first 14 days. I think this is a reasonable explanation and it doesnt 
impact on whether or not I think the claim for KS was fairly declined.  
Allianz themselves  have  accepted that the level of service they provided in relation to the 
claim wasnt to the standards they usually  aim for. So all that remains to be decided is 
whether the £150 compensation theyve already offered is fair. Allianz reinstated cover  and 
considered (and paid some of) the claim. And having looked at all the circumstances here, I 
think £150 is a fair amount to compensate for the trouble  Mrs B was put to with regard to the 
service issues.  So, Im not intending  to tell Allianz this needs to be increased or that they 
need to do anything further  to resolve  this complaint.
Mrs B responded to my provisional decision and raised some further points which  Ill address 
below. She also added that she would  be prepared to accept 50% of the claim value in 
relation to KS to resolve the complaint. Our investigator put this to Allianz  who didnt agree to 
do so. Allianz didnt add anything further  for my consideration.  Now both sides  have had the 
opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mrs Bs response to my provisional  decision is that the three elements of her 
claim all occurred in quick succession and that some were accepted whilst the claim for KS 
wasnt. Mrs B doesnt think this is fair. She points  out that there  is overlap between  the 
Ref: DRN81933543clinical signs  that F displayed and that it isnt possible to conclusively say which  condition  
caused which sign.
Ive thought carefully about this. But the issue in dispute is the claim for KS  which Allianz 
declined. So, whilst  I understand the relevance of the parts of the claim that were  paid, Im 
not making a determination as to whether or not that was done  correctly. Im not suggesting  
that this is what happened, but if, for example, Allianz had accepted  and paid the other 
elements of the claim in error  it wouldnt follow that they would have to similarly meet the 
rest of the claim. My consideration  is limited  to whether or not Allianz acted fairly when 
declining the claim for KS. 
Here, Allianz have relied upon Mr Fs opinion that the clinical signs  that F displayed within 
the first 14 days of cover are linked to KS. And whilst I acknowledge its possible there could 
be a range of conditions  or injuries  that might  prompt similar signs,  I still think Allianz have 
acted fairly  in the circumstances by relying on the expert opinion  of Mr F. If Mrs B were to 
provide Allianz  with evidence from another vet which made clear that the signs  F displayed 
werent linked  to KS, then Id expect them to give the matter further consideration. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I think  the claim for KS has been fairly declined and so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8193354