K821x#15complaint
Miss R is unhappy with the action Lloyds Bank PLC took after she fell victim to a scam. In 
total Miss R transferred  £11,300  to the scammer  over the course  of three payments. 
background
On 3 September 2018, Miss R was contacted  by someone claiming to be from HMRC. It 
turned out this person  was a scammer. 
Miss R says that the scammer told her that they had discovered from an internal audit that 
she owed HMRC £4,798 in unpaid income  tax from a couple of years ago, and that if she 
didnt pay this amount  that day shed be arrested by the police and would be taken into 
custody. Miss R has said she was horrified by what she had been told and she was really  
frightened at the prospect  she might  go to prison. 
Shortly after telling Miss R what she owed,  and the consequences of this, Miss R says the 
scammer told her they would read  out some information, so that she understood what  shed 
done wrong, and what  needed to happen  next. They told her that while they relayed  this 
information, she should remain silent and not interrupt  them.  Miss R says the content of what  
was read out to her was very technical;  and the tone of the conversation was threatening 
and formal. 
Miss R, who was 63 and unemployed at the time,  had stopped working six months  earlier.  
And because Miss R had never been self-employed,  she thought  her previous employer 
might be responsible for any unpaid tax. She says she asked the scammer to contact her 
previous employer instead,  but the scammer told her, in no uncertain terms, that her 
previous employer wasnt responsible because she was ultimately the tax payer. 
Miss R has also told us that she queried how she could be sure the caller was from HMRC. 
The scammer offered  to call her back from the number shed be able to find on the HMRC 
website in order to prove  they were who they said they were.  Miss R found the number  on 
the HMRC website, and the scammer  called  her back on that number. This reassured  her 
she was talking to an HMRC employee.
Miss R has added that shes of a generation that has great respect  for authority,  and was 
satisfied HMRC had considerable power   in fact during her conversation  with the scammer, 
it told her it had the ability to freeze her accounts  and let the relevant authorities know  about  
her predicament so that she wouldnt be able to leave the country,  and that if she tried to, 
her passport  would  be seized. 
Miss R has told us that because of her belief of the power HMRC held,  the technical 
language the scammer  used, the formal and threatening tone of the conversation, and the 
fact the callers telephone number matched the telephone  number on the HMRC  website, 
she believed  every word the scammer  told her. So she decided to follow the scammers 
instructions and pay what she thought she owed.
Miss R didnt have enough  money to cover the amount of unpaid income tax shed been  told 
she needed to pay, but the scammer agreed  to accept  £3,900  for the time being  (this is what 
Miss R thought she had in her bank account). The scammer made it clear shed need to pay 
the rest at a future date though.
Ref: DRN81432312The scammer told Miss R not to tell her bank the real reason for the payment because if she 
did it would  close her account. Miss R has said she was told this was because they bank 
wouldnt be keen on keeping her on as a customer if it found  out she was in trouble with 
HMRC because it called into question her history  and credit worthiness. They told Miss R to 
tell Lloyds the money was for a holiday, and the payment would be going onto a pre-paid 
travel card which she held with a pre-paid card company. 
Payment 1 - £3,600
Miss R tried to make the payment online. She had to set up a new payee to do that. But 
Lloyds stopped the payment for additional  security  checks and asked Miss R to contact 
them.  
Miss R made two calls,  and spoke to two different call handlers in Lloyds fraud team. This is 
because after the first call (at the end of which Lloyds confirmed the payment would be 
made), Miss R noticed the money was still in her account, so she called Lloyds back to ask if 
she needed to do anything else. 
During the second call it transpired that because Miss R had insufficient funds in her 
account, she wasnt able to transfer  the full £3,900 shed promised the scammer. Lloyds told 
Miss R how much she could transfer, and it removed  the block from the attempted payment. 
She ended up transferring  £3,600  to the scammer  online following the call, which  virtually  
cleared her account.
Payment 2 - £4,200
Miss R was contacted  by the scammer again  two days later, on 5 September. Miss R has 
told us the scammer  told her that because the funds hadnt  reached them  by 3.30pm on 3 
September, the matter had been  referred  to the courts. She says the scammer told her she 
owed legal fees and additional money totalling £4,200. They  told her to pay the money into 
an account which it said was an HMRC account  though she wasnt to tell Lloyds  this - and 
that if she didnt  make this second payment shed go to prison. 
Miss R didnt have any more money after having paid virtually everything she had to the 
scammer. She told a male friend  what had happened,  and her friend offered to give her the 
money. Together they went to a building society where Miss Rs friend withdrew the funds  in 
cash, and together they went  into a Lloyds branch to deposit this cash into her account. She 
then attempted  to make the second payment of £4,200 to the scammer in branch. Miss R 
has told us that during  her visit to the branch the scammer insisted she stayed on the phone  
with them  so they could listen to what she was doing. They told her to keep her phone  where 
she would  usually keep  it  in this case this was inside her handbag. 
The branch  couldnt release the funds without first speaking with the fraud team  as an alert 
had popped up on their system stating that further  verification was needed. Miss R spoke  to 
Lloyds fraud  team  using the branch phone while she was in branch and she was told the 
money would  be released.
Miss R has told us that later that day she was contacted by the scammer again   they told 
her they hadnt  received the £4,200  shed  promised shed pay them. The scammer told Miss 
R to check her account to confirm this. Miss R did so and realised the payment had bounced  
back to her account for some unknown reason, but she then managed  to successfully  
Ref: DRN81432313transfer it to the scammer online.  Again, this involved  setting up a new payee as the 
recipient account  was different to the first payment.
Payment 3 - £3,500
The following  day Miss R was contacted by the scammer again.  She says they told her she 
would need to have an interview  with an HMRC inspector  to discuss what  had happened 
and the potential involvement  of her former employer (given her PAYE status). In order  to 
ensure shed turn up to the interview, Miss R would need to send HMRC £3,500 as security.  
She was told this money would be returned  to her at her interview.  
Miss R once again told her friend what had happened,  and once again  they went  to a 
building society together so that he could withdraw  the funds for her. They both then went  
into a Lloyds branch  to deposit the cash into Miss Rs account, and then Miss R later paid 
the scammer  online. Miss R made the payment to the same recipient account as Payment 2.
Miss R says that at every stage the scammer  threatened  that if she didnt make  the payment 
requested, a police  officer  would come  to her house  and take her into custody.
Miss Rs complaint 
Miss R says that in the early hours of 7 September,  she woke up and had what  she 
describes as a lightening  moment. She said it dawned on her that she mightve been 
scammed, and she looked up what had happened  to her online; quickly  finding similar 
stories from people that had been  affected by HMRC scams. Miss R contacted Lloyds that 
day to say that she thought shed been  the victim of a scam, but by the time she informed 
Lloyds, it was only able to recover £42.92 for her. 
Miss R made a complaint to Lloyds  and asked whether it was able to give her any more 
money back as a gesture of goodwill. She explained it was her understanding  that other 
banks had made these  sorts of payments to their customers, and she believed she hadnt 
been negligent as shed  checked the incoming  call from the scammer was legitimate. Miss R 
explained shed  only recently found out about caller ID spoofing.
Caller ID spoofing is where the incoming telephone number that the person receiving the call 
sees is not the callers  real number (and instead  appears to be the number of a legitimate 
and trustworthy  organisation like HMRC). 
While Lloyds accepted  Miss R was going through a difficult time,  it said it wouldnt be making  
a refund. So Miss R referred her complaint to us. 
She told us she was terrified during her dealings with the scammer. She genuinely thought  
shed go to prison if she didnt comply  with what the scammer instructed her to do. Miss R 
has said the scammer told her not to tell the bank she had been  speaking to HMRC, as 
revealing this would mean shed have her accounts  closed. Miss R said she didnt tell Lloyds   
what the funds  were for because she thought she was going to be arrested, and in doing  this 
she was following the instructions of the scammer. 
Miss R has also told us that the impact of the scam  and the financial loss has been  
absolutely devastating.  She has type 1 diabetes, and following the scam her blood  sugar  
levels were affected for some time,  this meant  she found it difficult to eat and she felt sick 
regularly. Miss R, upon realising how the scam  had impacted her, met with someone  from 
Ref: DRN81432314victim support a couple of times. Shes  told us the scam completely and totally wrecked her 
confidence in people and overturned her belief system  it destroyed  her positive view of 
humanity. Shes explained she is of a generation that respects  authority  which  is why the 
contact from HMRC was so powerful in the first place  and for some time she couldnt trust 
anyone and didnt  answer the door or the telephone, leaving her very isolated.  
Miss R also doesnt feel as though Lloyds empathised with her situation  following the scam,  
particularly as it affected her financially, leading her to ask for an increase to her overdraft  
she felt there  was no acknowledgement from Lloyds as to what shed been through.
One of our investigators  provided Lloyds with their initial thoughts as to why he thought the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He thought  the payments Miss R made were very unusual  and 
therefore Lloyds  ought to have recognised  this.
Lloyds didnt agree. It said Miss R received  full warnings  about scam payments before the 
first payment  was made, and shed  indicated it was a genuine payment for a long-term 
holiday. 
Regarding the second payment, it said Miss R had indicated to its fraud  team that it was to 
go on a pre-paid travel card. It said Miss R didnt mention HMRC  or a tax bill during that 
conversation, and that shed confirmed the payment  was genuine. It says this payment was 
finally made via internet  banking. And the following day Miss R made the third payment 
online for a travel card.
It said Miss R hadnt appeared to verify the authenticity  of the caller  she hadnt contacted 
HMRC directly and shed relied  on the scammer telling her the call would come from the 
telephone number stated on the HMRC website. It also said there was no clear  indication as 
to why Miss R believed she owed what she was told she did by the scammer.  
Because Lloyds  didnt  agree with the investigators  reasons to uphold  this complaint it was 
passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision, setting out my thoughts, on 1 November 2019.
In that decision  I acknowledged  that when considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I remain  of the 
view that these considerations are the relevant ones. Ive set them out below.
relevant considerations
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Ref: DRN81432315Regulated firms like Lloyds are also required to conduct their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
 identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers  in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  by 
the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers  Associations  February  2016  report  
improving outcomes  for customers in vulnerable circumstances ); 
 look to identify  and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting customers  from 
financial harm as a result of fraud or financial  abuse  Code of Practice, which a number 
of banks and trade  associations  were involved in the development of); and 
 in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer.
my provisional decision
Having set out the relevant considerations in my provisional decision,  I made the following 
findings:
So taking all of this into account, in this case,  I need to decide whether  Lloyds  acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  with Miss R when she made three  payments to a scammer, 
totalling £11,300, or whether it should  have done  more than it did.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, Im not persuaded Lloyds 
did and Ill explain why.
It is not disputed  that Miss R was the unwitting victim of an unpleasant and callous scam. 
She ultimately made  three payments to the scammer:
1.A payment of £3,600  on 3 September
2.A payment of £4,200  on 5 September
3.A payment of £3,500  on 6 September
The first two payments  (at least when Miss R first attempted to make them), were  stopped  
by Lloyds for additional security checks,  which meant Miss R spoke to Lloyds fraud 
department (and branch staff in the case of Payment  2), before she made the payments. So 
Ref: DRN81432316Ive carefully considered  what happened  during these interactions  in deciding  whether  
Lloyds couldve done more.
Payment 1
Miss R spoke to Lloyds fraud department  twice  before making  Payment 1. Ive listened to 
these calls and Ive set out a summary of what was said below because I think  its important  
in fully understanding the circumstances.
During the first call with the fraud team,  the call handler explained the payment had been  
stopped for additional security checks. The call handler told Miss R its just for the bank to 
make sure it is obviously yourself making this transaction and that the bank needed to ask 
her questions to verify that (which it did). 
The call handler also asked Miss R what the payment  was for. Miss R responded erm yeah 
its a payment towards um a proposed  um long distance holiday. He asked Miss R who the 
payment was going to and Miss R replied  erm its the, the payment is going to er, the 
company name is pre pay technologies  limited.  The call handler asked whether it was a pre-
paid travel card, and when Miss R told him it was, the call handler  said: 
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                 
Miss R replied Thats right.  
I am mindful  that Miss R didnt tell the call handler she was the victim of a scam  but at that 
stage she didnt believe she was. Miss R says, and I accept, that she believed  the person 
who had called her from HMRC was genuine.     
It is widely recognised  by firms like Lloyds  (and part of the thinking underpinning the Banking 
Protocol processes for branch  transactions, but relevant  to all interactions between  bank 
staff and customers), that fraudsters often provide customers with a convincing reason to 
make a payment  and that fraudsters often  instruct customers not to discuss what has 
happened with the bank  and to provide a cover story. And in those  circumstances as a 
matter of good practice it may be appropriate to challenge the customer further.   
It seems  to me that during  this call Lloyds fraud  team  ought  reasonably  to have  identified  
there was a possibility  that something  untoward  might be going  on and taken additional 
steps. The consumer  was making  a substantial payment to a new payee,  and in doing so 
was virtually emptying  her account  (leaving her with very little money  and no obvious 
income) for  as Lloyds  understood  it  the purpose  of putting a large  sum of money on a 
prepaid card for a proposed long-distance holiday at some stage in the future.     
The call handler actually  pointed out that lots of fraudulent payments go on pre-paid travel  
cards. When  the call handler told Miss R this, she simply  replied oh right and the call 
handler accepted  her answers at face value without testing the answers in any way beyond  
asking if she had a prepaid card with the pre-paid card company she had identified.  
Having identified the need for additional  checks and having been told the money was to be 
transferred to a pre-paid card for a proposed  holiday, I think Lloyds ought fairly and 
reasonably to have  made additional  checks in this case.  
Ref: DRN81432317Whilst I accept  there is a balance to be struck  and there are limits to the depth of questioning 
a firm can pursue, Lloyds could  and in my view ought fairly and reasonably  to have 
asked Miss R extra questions in this case, essentially to challenge  the purpose of the 
payment and to ask for more detail, for example about the proposed holiday and the impact 
of the payment on her finances.  I think  Lloyds  should also have given Miss R more 
information about what scams looked  and felt like. That way Lloyds would be able to assure  
itself fraud  likely wasnt taking place, and that Miss R wasnt at risk of financial harm. 
Im not satisfied Miss R was asked enough  probing  questions to identify whether this was or 
wasnt likely to be the case. I think Lloyds had an opportunity  to do more  at this stage, and 
had it done so, it is more likely than not that Miss R would have struggled with some of the 
details underpinning the cover story she had been  given and either Lloyds would have  
identified, or Miss R would have  realised,  she was in the process of being  scammed.
Miss R called the fraud team  again shortly afterwards because  she could still see the money 
in her account. She explained she wanted to check everything was ok. This time a different 
call handler asked her a series of questions to confirm her identity. 
The call handler then asked Miss R whether the payment  was going to one of her own 
accounts, to which Miss R replied the payment was going onto a travel card company. The 
call handler then asked  whether  the previous call handler had gone  through any information 
with Miss R about                                                Miss R replied that he had and that erm 
yeah, er yeah thats fine. The conversation then progressed  as follows:
Call handler:                                                                       
                                                 
Miss R: No, nothing like that at all, no.
Call handler:  Just to keep me right here I do need to cover  that information  again and then Ill 
get this sorted.
Call handler:  (appears to read from a script). 
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                                         
Miss R: I understand yes 
Call handler:                                                                                                          
                                                                                               
Miss R: yes I did yes
Call handler:                                                                         
Ref: DRN81432318                                                                                                                                                        
             
Miss R: Yeah  ok. 
Call handler:  Thats ok. 
  
Call handler:                                                                         
           
Miss R: Oh no, no, not at all, no
Call handler:                                                                         
                                                                                                                                                        
                                                       
Miss R: Yes, Im absolutely certain,  yes.
Call handler:  Thats great.
The call handler explained  the previous call handler didnt get the system to the point  where 
it could release the payment. Its clear  the call handler is operating a system in the 
background and so there is a moment of silence. In my opinion,  in order to fill the silence, 
the call handler  asked Miss R:
Call handler:  Are you heading away then somewhere  nice?
Miss R: um yes, we are actually yes. 
Call handler:  Very good
Miss R: Somewhere a very long way away.
Call handler:  Oh
The call handler then told Miss R that the reason the £3,900 payment didnt go through  was 
because there were insufficient  funds in her account  because she had a number of pending 
card transactions. The call handler  calculated how much she could transfer instead without 
going into her overdraft and when Miss R asked if she might encounter further problems 
offered to stay on the phone while she made the payment. Miss R explained that wasnt  
necessary because she would need to speak to the other people to explain what was 
happening and that she would be doing things differently.  
In my view there was quite a lot going  on during this conversation, that ought to have alerted 
Lloyds to the fact that things werent  quite right. 
As before, Miss R was attempting to make a substantial payment to a new payee, and in 
doing so was virtually  emptying her account (leaving her with very little money and no 
obvious income), for  as Lloyds understood it  the purpose of putting  a large sum of 
money on a prepaid  card for a holiday to an unspecified destination a long way away.  
Ref: DRN81432319In addition, although I do not place  much weight on this, and I am mindful not to assess the 
calls with the benefit of hindsight, it seems  to me that some of Miss Rs answers and 
comments were  slightly  odd.  
For example, when she was asked if she was going somewhere nice Miss R replied 
somewhere a very long way away rather than specifying a place, whilst her comments  
about speaking  to the other people and letting them know she was would be doing things 
differently sounded  a bit strange in the context  of the payment she had told Lloyds she was 
making. 
I accept the second  call handler  took extra steps  compared to the first call handler, and read 
a scam script out to Miss R, and that Miss R assured the call handler that she had not been 
contacted by a third party. But I am mindful  that the script was read through at pace, covered 
a wide range of scam types  and issues, and in context of the call itself was in my view as 
much, or indeed  predominantly, about limiting Lloyds potential  liability,  rather than seeking 
to protect  Miss R from financial harm and was unlikely to break the spell of the fraudster.
Again, in all the circumstances, I think Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have asked Miss 
R extra questions in this case, essentially to challenge the purpose  of the payment and to 
ask for more detail,  for example about  the proposed holiday  and the impact  of the payment 
on her finances. I think Lloyds should also have  given Miss R more information  about what 
scams looked and felt like but in a more  tailored  and responsive way mindful that Miss R 
might be under the spell of a fraudster. 
And again, Im not satisfied Miss R was asked enough probing questions  to identify whether 
this was or wasnt likely  to be the case. I think Lloyds had an opportunity  to do more  at this 
stage, and had it done so, it is more  likely  than not that Miss R would have struggled with 
some of the details underpinning the cover story she had been  given and either  Lloyds 
would have identified  or Miss R would have realised she was in the process of being 
scammed.
 
Overall, I am satisfied that Lloyds ought  fairly and reasonably to have done more  when Miss 
R attempted to make  the first payment, and if it had done so its more likely  than not that 
Miss R would not ultimately have made  any of the payments  she did.
Payment 2
Miss R transferred another £4,200 to the scammer  two days later. This time she not only had 
interaction with Lloyds fraud team  over the phone, but also with staff in branch. 
I dont know what was said in branch   although  it would appear  (from  what the branch staff 
said to the fraud department when they spoke),  that the branch had taken steps  to ID Miss R 
through chip and pin and her driving  licence.  But when the branch tried to make the payment 
it was directed to the fraud team  for additional checks. Ive listened to this call and set out 
broadly what was discussed  below.
After asking Miss R a few general questions, including where the payment was going (a 
travel card), and the account (was  one with her name, but not with Lloyds), the call handler  
told Miss R she needed  to run some  checks on the payment  to see why it had been flagged. 
The call handler told Miss R she could  see she had transferred money  to another pre-paid 
travel card a couple of days ago and that the system has detected this as unusual  activity. 
Ref: DRN814323110Miss R told the call handler that she realised it was unusual. But despite this the call handler  
told Miss R the payment  would now go through without making any further  enquiries.
I wouldve  expected  the call handler to ask further  questions at this point. The call handler 
identified two payments  to two different travel cards in as many days  as being  unusual. And 
Miss R agrees. Yet she doesnt ask any further questions to find out whether Miss R might 
be the victim  of a scam  this is what I think it fairly  and reasonably  ought  to have done, 
particularly as by that stage:
Miss R had set up a new payee,  which  Lloyds understood to be a payment to a pre-
paid card company  for the purposes  of transferring money to a pre-paid card for a 
future holiday.
Miss R had transferred practically  her entire account balance of £3,600  to that 
account leaving only enough money  to cover the pending  card payments she had 
already made.
Miss R had deposited £4,200 in cash into her account earlier in the day and was now 
attempting to transfer the same amount of money  once again virtually  emptying her 
account  to a second new payee  for the purposes  of transferring money to a second  
prepaid card for a holiday.
In total if the payment went through, she would have transferred £7,800 to prepaid 
cards for a holiday in only 48 hours. 
Unlike the previous  calls the call handler  didnt provide any warnings or ask Miss R whether 
shed had any unusual  contact from people that might be scamming her despite  the system  
flagging what is essentially unusual activity on her account. This third interaction  Miss R had 
with Lloyds fraud team presented a further opportunity to block this second payment made to 
the scammer, an opportunity which I consider to have been unreasonably missed.
Its clear the purpose of the fraud operator  call was to check that it was the customer  making 
the payment and Lloyds did not concern itself with the unusual  activity or what  it might mean.
I also note that towards the end of the call, after the call handler  had told Miss R that the 
payment would be processed, after a few seconds  Miss R had a conversation  with the friend 
that had given her the money  in the background and who had accompanied her to the 
branch:
Miss R: Theyre doing it. Yeah theyre  doing  it (nervous/relieved laughing)
Friend:[seemingly in jest] I hope  hes still on the line. Hes got a tracker  device  on you? They  
might well have.
Miss R: (nervous  laughing) dont  make things even worse.
Inaudible
Its not clear whether  the call handler  or the branch  staff heard this, but again if they had it 
would only have given  them further  cause to question what  was happening. 
Ref: DRN814323111And it is also relevant  that Miss R was in branch, so Lloyds had the opportunity  to invoke the 
Banking Protocol and call the police if appropriate.   
Once again I am satisfied that Lloyds  ought fairly and reasonably to have done more  when  
Miss R attempted  to make  the second payment and asked further probing questions about 
the transaction and Miss Rs holiday plans. If it had done so, I think  its more likely than not 
that Miss R would not have ultimately made Payment 2 or gone on to make Payment 3.
Payment 3
Miss R made a final online payment of £3,500 to the scammer, on 6 September. Ive not 
seen any evidence there was any interaction  with Lloyds at this point, but given a pattern, 
indicative of potential fraud was in my view quite clearly occurring at this point, I think  Lloyds 
ought to have fairly and reasonably investigated this payment as well, before releasing the 
funds. By that stage:
Miss R had set up a new payee,  which  Lloyds understood to be a payment to a pre-
paid card company  for the purposes  of transferring money to a pre-paid card for a 
future holiday.
Miss R had transferred practically  her entire account balance to that account  leaving 
only enough money to cover the pending card payments she had already made.
Miss R had deposited £4,200 in cash into her account and transferred the same 
amount of money  once again  virtually emptying her account   to a second new 
payee for the purposes of transferring money  to a second  prepaid travel card.
Miss R had deposited a further  £3,500 in cash (24 hours after depositing  £4,200 in 
cash), and was now looking  to immediately transfer that £3,500 to the same recipient 
as she had transferred £4,200 to less than 24 hours  before.   
And again, I am satisfied that if Lloyds had investigated Miss Rs attempt to make  a third 
payment, it should fairly and reasonably have asked probing questions which would more 
likely than not have  prevented her from making  Payment 3.
Overall
As Ive previously explained, at the time the scam  took place Lloyds ought to have  been  
alive to and on the lookout  for fraud. 
Everything that Ive identified  above as being  unusual ought fairly  and reasonably to have 
raised red flags with Lloyds. Lloyds  clearly was alive to and on the lookout  for fraud given  the 
conversations that took place over the phone  but in my view they didnt go far enough in 
finding out whether fraud was likely  to be occurring in this particular case.  As Ive explained 
above, there were  several indicators that Miss R could  be at risk and a number of 
opportunities were  missed.
Ive thought carefully about the exact  point Lloyds  couldve prevented Miss R from either  
being a victim of a scam,  or continuing  to be the victim of a scam.  And as Ive set out above, 
Ref: DRN814323112Im satisfied that if Lloyds  had acted fairly  and reasonably it could have prevented  all three 
transactions, and Miss R would not have  lost the money  she did. In the circumstances I am 
satisfied that Lloyds should fairly and reasonably compensate Miss R for the losses  she has 
suffered.
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable  in this case, I have taken into 
account everything Lloyds has said, including its view that Miss R should not reasonably  
have fallen for the scam in the first place.  But I dont think it would be fair to say Miss R 
acted unreasonably here.
I appreciate that in hindsight it might be difficult,  in particular for those who havent been 
affected by this type of crime or who have  greater knowledge of fraud  and scams as banks 
do, to understand why Miss R thought she owed HMRC the money the scammer persuaded 
her she did. But Im persuaded  that at the time Miss R was under the spell of a sophisticated 
and cruel scam that was intended  to intimidate  and frighten her. Because of this, I think  its 
understandable that Miss Rs thoughts were less rationale and logical than might usually be 
the case; particularly because of the pressure and fear the scammer applied.  That is why 
scams like this are so successful. And ultimately,  as I set out earlier, that is precisely why 
Lloyds should  fairly  and reasonably have taken the steps I have found it should have taken 
to protect  its customers from fraud.  
Finally, Ive considered  whether Lloyds should  pay Miss R compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced as a result of Lloyds actions. In considering whats fair 
compensation, Ive specifically  thought  about the impact of Lloyds  actions, rather than the 
impact of the crime itself.  
Im persuaded that Lloyds failure to act, and prevent  financial harm, has had a lasting 
impact on Miss R. As I explained earlier Miss R has been left feeling unwell and isolated; 
and she has been  distressed due to the impact on her finances.  Whilst I dont doubt Miss R 
would have been shaken by what had happened  even if Lloyds had done what I have set out 
it ought to have done, I dont think the impact  on Miss Rs health and wellbeing  wouldve 
been as significant as it has been. So, for these  reasons I think  Lloyds should pay Miss R 
£500 in compensation.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Lloyds response:
Following the receipt of my provisional  decision  Lloyds reconsidered  its position  and made  
the following  key points:
Payment one
Lloyds believes its systems successfully flagged the first payment and created an 
alert for further review.
During both calls with Lloyds fraud team,  Miss R was provided  with appropriate 
warnings which were  entirely relevant for the scam  Miss R fell victim to, but she a) 
didnt pay attention to these and b) gave  false  information to suit the nature  of the 
payment.
There is a balance  to be struck  between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent and respond appropriately to these, whilst also ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate  payments.
Having reviewed the specific trigger within its fraud detection  systems  for this 
payment, Lloyds says its important to explain that for every fraudulent  payment  of 
Ref: DRN814323113this nature there are around  twenty  genuine payments  so only a 5% chance  of the 
payment being  fraudulent.
Intervening more deeply on payments such as this would have a disproportionate  
impact on customers  going about their legitimate  business. Its approach  is to refer all 
such payments so one of its advisors can speak to the customer and gain further  
insight, but unless they have genuine concerns following the questioning of the 
customer, it wouldnt be appropriate to frustrate the customers  efforts to access  
their funds  any further.
On this occasion, the information Miss R provided to both advisors was entirely 
plausible and satisfied  the red flags the advisors considered.
There is an onus on the customer to tell the truth to the questions being asked.
The fact customers are told to lie to the bank isnt lost on Lloyds which  is why the 
warnings it provided  specifically called out this point.
Payments two and three
Upon further review, Lloyds believes it had an opportunity to probe further particularly after 
payment one and the fact Miss R went into a branch to deposit funds onto a different pre-
paid card. Lloyds  says that because of this activity and the red flags, it thinks branch 
colleagues couldve probed more around  these payments and potentially invoked the 
Banking Protocol.
Lloyds set out that it was willing to provide a refund of £7,700 (payments  two and three);  pay 
simple interest on this from the date of payment to the date of settlement and £500  for the 
distress and inconvenience Miss R experienced.
Miss R accepted my provisional decision and rejected Lloydss  revised position and offer. 
She still feels Lloyds ought  to have done more when  she made  the first payment to the 
scammer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that this decision should be upheld for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, which I have reproduced  above, and which  now forms part of this final 
decision. Im not persuaded by the further  comments Lloyds has made,  and I believe Ive 
already dealt with them  in my provisional  decision.
However, I would  like to address some of Lloyds recent  submissions.
payment one
I accept that Lloyds systems successfully flagged the first payment. And I also accept 
Lloyds fraud  team  provided some  warnings about scams to Miss R when she spoke  to 
them. But for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision,  I think  the call handlers in 
Lloyds fraud  team  ought fairly and reasonably to have done  more than they did. In my 
provisional decision I also explained  that I thought the scam script (which contained some  
warnings about  scams), was read through at pace and covered a wide range of scam types 
and issues  and I felt reading out the script  was as much, or predominantly, about limiting  
Lloyds potential liability rather  than seeking  to protect Miss R from financial harm.  
Ref: DRN814323114While Lloyds believes the information Miss R gave to both advisors was entirely plausible, I 
disagree. As I explained in my provisional  decision, Miss R was making a substantial  
payment to a new payee, and in doing so she was virtually emptying her account - leaving 
her with very little money and no obvious  income.  Based  on what Miss R told Lloyds fraud  
team this payment was to fund a long-distance holiday to an unspecified destination,  
somewhere  a very long way away, at some  stage in the future. And in addition, the money 
was being paid to a pre-paid  travel  card  with the first call handler  acknowledging that lots 
of fraudulent payments go on pre-paid travel cards. 
Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view Lloyds had an opportunity  to do more  at 
this stage  it ought fairly and reasonably to have asked Miss R extra  questions to challenge 
the purpose of the payment and give her more  tailored information  about scams. Without 
doing this, Im not persuaded that in this particular case Lloyds was able to assure  itself 
fraud likely wasnt taking  place, and that Miss R wasnt at risk of financial harm.
I do accept there is a balance to be struck  in identifying payments that could be fraudulent,  
and there  are limits to the depth of questions Lloyds can ask customers  such as Miss R. But 
in this case, I dont  think Lloyds  did enough. And I cant fairly agree  that some  extra  
questioning, the nature of which Ive set out in this decision, would disproportionately  affect  
its customers who arent the victims of fraud.  
payments two and three
Im pleased Lloyds  has accepted it ought  to have done more before processing  payments 
two and three. It says that due to the behavioural activity and red flags by this point, branch 
staff could have  probed  more around these transactions,  and potentially  invoked the Banking 
Protocol. 
I dont disagree that the branch staff could have done more when Miss R attempted to make 
the second payment. But for the avoidance  of doubt, for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied the call handler  from Lloyds fraud team  - who spoke to 
Miss R when she attempted  to make payment two - should have done more. As I explained  
in my provisional decision,  the call handler identified  Miss R had transferred money to 
another pre-paid travel card a couple of days ago, and that the system had detected this as 
unusual activity. Miss R even confirmed to her that she realised this was unusual. But the 
call handler told Miss R the payment would go through  without making any further enquiries.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Rs complaint.  I dont think it was fair or reasonable 
for Lloyds  Bank PLC not to refund  the losses Miss R suffered as a result of this scam.
I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund Miss Rs account  with £11,257.08 (this takes into account the amount 
recovered from the scammers accounts); and
Pay simple interest  on the payments calculated at 8% a year from the date of each 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Miss R £500  for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Ref: DRN814323115Katie Doran
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8143231