K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage that Mrs G held with Bank  of Scotland  
plc. Sadly,  Mrs G died in 2012. Her son, who was guarantor for the mortgage  and is also the 
representative of her estate, complains  that Halifax didnt register  her death on the mortgage 
account and instead continued to send out letters and statements addressed  to her whilst 
accepting payments from him. 
background
Mrs G took the mortgage out in 2004;  after she died in 2012, Mr G says he phoned Halifax  to 
inform it of her death, believing  this would mean the mortgage would be transferred into his 
name. He continued  to pay the monthly instalments  but says that despite the branch staff 
showing him on screen that his mother was recorded as deceased, Halifax sent out letters  
and statements addressed to her rather  than to him.
Matters came to a head in late 2018 when  it became  apparent  that Halifax  had only just then 
become aware  Mrs G had died.  Mr G complained, and on 28 November 2018, Halifax wrote 
to him. The following in slightly summarised form, is what  the bank said:
its records didnt show that it had ever been informed that Mrs G had died;
as guarantor, Mr G was responsible for the debt. Halifax had authority to deal with him 
and accept payments  from him, but the mortgage didnt automatically go into his name;
the bank hadnt made  error  in connection with the building insurance  policy  for the 
mortgaged property;
if he wanted to take over the mortgage formally  and own the property himself,  hed need 
to apply and meet  Halifaxs affordability  criteria;
When Mr G referred  the complaint to us, our investigator didnt think Halifax  had done 
anything wrong. Notwithstanding  Mr Gs personal recollection, he said the banks records 
didnt show that Mr G officially  informed  it of his mothers death  before 2018. Mr Gs asked 
for an ombudsman to decide  the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I address the substance of the complaint, I need to explain that there are some things 
I cant address here. Thats because  some of what Mr Gs unhappy with relates to his own 
relationship with Halifax, and Ill come  back  to that shortly. But this isnt Mr Gs own 
complaint; its his late mothers, whose estate he represents. It might seem  an odd 
distinction to make where theres a close  overlap between the two, but its a necessary one. 
We can consider a complaint from the estate  of a deceased customer, provided the estate is 
represented, and thats where Mr G come in. Hes not the complainant in his own right;  hes 
the representative of the complainant. When Im deciding if Halifax  has done anything  wrong  
here, I cant  consider  the impact any error might have had on Mr G personally.  I can only 
consider the impact on his late mothers estate, and thats the key here.
Theres conflicting evidence on whether  Mr G informed Halifax of his mothers death in 2012; 
his personal testimony  is that he did, but theres  no record of this in Halifaxs systems. Thats 
Ref: DRN87371412not to say I disbelieve Mr G; Ive no doubt  he has told his best recollections  in good faith. 
That said,  businesses records are made as they happen, so generally  we might consider 
them more  reliable than individuals recollections  of events  that happened  a long time ago. 
But that doesnt mean theyre fool-proof.
Ultimately, however, if I accept what Mr G says at face value  that is, that he told Halifax in 
2012 that his mother  had died and it failed to record this  I then have to decide how that 
omission affected the estate. When were deciding a complaint, we have to assess whether  
theres been detriment  to the customer as a result of any mistake.  
In broad terms detriment  comes in two forms; financial and non-financial. The former is 
largely self-explanatory; financial detriment is where someone is worse  off financially 
because of something a business has done  (or in this case, not done). Non-financial  
detriment is typically the trouble  and upset that an error or omission  has caused the 
customer, and the time theyve had to spend putting things right.
But in a case where the affected part is the estate  of someone who had died, we can only 
think in terms of financial loss; thats  because a deceaseds estate cant suffer from distress,  
inconvenience or upset. Thats not to say I dont imagine Mr G hasnt found this a distressing 
episode to deal with, but as I said earlier, under  our rules, I cant take any impact on him 
personally into account.
Getting back to the key issue,  if I accept  Halifax  was told of Mrs Gs death in 2012  but didnt 
take Mr G through  the necessary formalities at that time, I could only uphold the complaint 
and make an award of compensation if I was satisfied that the estate had suffered financially 
as a result. Id also have to consider whether there  were steps  Mr G, as the estates 
representative, could  have taken before 2018 to minimise the impact. 
Looking at the evidence here, I cant readily conclude that the late Mrs Gs estate is in a 
worse position currently  because her death wasnt recorded on Halifaxs systems in 2012. 
What I can say however,  is that if Mr G was seeing  post arriving  at the property still 
addressed to her, for example the annual statement for 2012 that would have been sent out 
in early 2013, then its reasonable to conclude he had the opportunity  to alert the bank and 
insist something be done.  Insofar as that only happened in 2018,  I cant fairly say Mr G has 
done enough to mitigate  the potential for impact on his late mothers  estate.
The current  position,  as I understand  it, is that Mr G is aware of the steps he needs to take if 
he wishes to apply  to take over the property and the mortgage in his own right.  He may wish 
to get advice of his own  legal or financial, or possibly both  before deciding  what  to do. 
I mentioned earlier that some of what Mr Gs unhappy with relates to his own relationship  
with Halifax, and that Id come  back to it; I do that now. Mr G has been paying the mortgage 
since Mrs G died; hes done that his capacity as representative of the estate, but also as 
guarantor for the mortgage. If hes unhappy with how Halifax has treated him in the latter 
role, he could make a separate complaint of his own, and if Halifax didnt resolve  it to his 
satisfaction and the referred  it here,  we may be able to look into it. Our ability  to do so might 
depend on whether we thought Halifax had treated Mr G as a potential  customer,  and we 
could only make that assessment once wed received a fresh complaint. 
Lastly, Mr G has said that Halifax failed to respond to a complaint. The letter of 
27 November 2018 from Halifax that I mentioned earlier was a final response  to a complaint, 
and its that complaint weve  dealt with. If Mr G has made another complaint that Halifax  
Ref: DRN87371413hasnt responded  to, then he should let us have details of that separately,  and again, well 
have to decide if our rules  allow us to look into it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G on behalf of 
his late mothers estate  to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8737141