K822xComplaint
Mr S complains about the way in which HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a dispute he raised on 
a credit card transaction. 
Background 
Mr S disputed a transaction of £155.04 on his credit card account, held with HSBC.  He 
accepted that he used  the services of the hire car company that debited  the amount 
previously, but didnt  know what  the additional  payment  was for as hed already paid for the 
services used.
HSBC refunded the transaction to Mr Ss account  and requested documentation from the 
third party company showing a breakdown of the charges. After  the breakdown of charges 
was received by HSBC,  it sent Mr S a letter advising him that the payment would be retaken 
from his account. This letter told him to contact the bank to clarify any of the points raised 
from the breakdown  of charges provided.
Mr S said he contacted the bank and disputed the charges as he denied having  the benefit  
of these or agreeing to the payment. He agreed hed hired  a car from the company, but 
denied a number  of extras it added to the invoice. He also pointed out that the signature  on 
the document wasnt his and inconsistences in some of the charges which,  he said, proved 
they were false.  
Mr S said he made a number of lengthy  telephone calls to HSBC in order  to resolve  his 
dispute, some of which werent responded to when HSBC said it would. During these calls, 
Mr S said HSBC didnt listen to points he was making and it didnt initiate a claim under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, despite  his requests to do this.  
Mr S said he made a complaint to HSBC  about the poor service  it provided him. But he had 
to make more than one request to complain  about  HSBCs service before it was logged  and 
dealt with.
HSBC responded  to Mr Ss complaint and said that the disputes  process  was followed 
correctly and that the hire car company  was able to evidence the disputed  transaction  as 
valid. It added that its Fraud Team would investigate the signature on the invoice provided 
by the hire car company  as Mr S said it wasnt his. It apologised for the inconvenience Mr S 
experienced and that his previous request to make a complaint wasnt carried out; HSBC 
paid him £50 in compensation  for this.
Mr S said he was unhappy with this response as he felt HSBC  hadnt addressed  his 
complaint points. And he felt the compensation didnt reflect the inconvenience  he was 
caused, so he contacted  our service.
An investigator looked into this and after contacting HSBC, was told it had changed its 
position on the complaint. HSBC said:
There was an avoidable delay from the time it received the disputed charges 
breakdown from the hire car company to when  it was reviewed  and given to Mr S.
The dispute was incorrectly  referred  to the Fraud Team.
The complaint  resolution it provided to Mr S was incorrect.
Ref: DRN84296662HSBC said, due to the error, it was liable for the disputed  amount and wouldnt be retaking 
this from Mr Ss credit card account. It also offered to increase its compensation by £150  
making a total payment of £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr S asked our service  to investigate if the amount offered in compensation was fair, so our 
investigator looked into this.
After reviewing the evidence, our investigator thought HSBC had made a number of errors in 
the way it dealt with Mr Ss dispute.  He felt that the time Mr S spent of the telephone with 
HSBC was excessive  and avoidable.  And he thought that this caused  Mr S considerable 
distress and inconvenience. So he thought HSBC should pay Mr S a total of £300 in 
compensation for this.
HSBC accepted the investigators opinion, but Mr S remained unhappy with the amount of 
compensation as he thought this should be increased to £350. So the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
HSBC has now accepted the errors it made and hasnt disputed  the compensation 
recommended by our investigator. But Mr S is unhappy with the amount of compensation 
hes been offered  as a result of the distress and inconvenience  these  errors  have caused. 
So Ive gone  on to consider how this has impacted Mr S and if the compensation award is 
fair in the circumstances.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr S is unhappy  with the way in which HSBC has handled his 
complaint, as this isnt a regulated activity I dont have the power to make an award for this. 
But I can look at whether HSBC has generally treated Mr S fairly and reasonably in relation 
to the transaction hes disputed.  
I think Mr S did experience a number  of avoidable delays in having his disputed payment 
dealt with. This includes an avoidable delay  in giving Mr S the evidence it had received from 
the hire car company  giving a breakdown of the disputed charges. This evidence wasnt 
reviewed by HSBC until more than two weeks after it was received. These delays 
undoubtedly frustrated  Mr S as it prolonged the process beyond what  was necessary.
Once Mr S was provided with this evidence, he tried to make  representations to HSBC  
through a number of telephone calls. Having listened to these calls between  Mr S and HSBC  
I can understand his frustrations in trying to have  his dispute dealt with. Mr S tried on several 
occasions to explain the reasons why he was disputing the payment and gave clear reasons 
for this. He pointed out irregularities in the evidence given by the hire car company, but 
these dont appear to have been  fully understood by the HSBC representatives. This meant 
that at times Mr S was going  around in circles in these  conversations  and spending lengthy 
amounts of time on the telephone. He was also left on hold for long periods of time and 
transferred to other departments where  hed have to repeat his concerns. The increasing 
frustration this was causing Mr S can clearly be heard in the tone of his voice with each call 
he made. And I think this lack of understanding resulted in the claim being passed  to the 
Ref: DRN84296663wrong department,  which HSBC has accepted. So, I think  these errors were  avoidable and 
should be taken  into account when considering the distress and inconvenience caused. 
I also think Mr S spent  more time than was necessary on the telephone and was frustrated in 
using his lunch  breaks at work and personal  time resolving  the issue.  He also had to make a 
call to HSBC after it didnt  contact  him when he was told it would.
I do however appreciate  HSBC didnt re-debit the funds from Mr Ss account and has now 
accepted the errors made when  dealing with his claim  and subsequent complaint. It also 
refunded the disputed  amount promptly and didnt end up retaking the amount at any stage; 
despite a letter being sent to Mr S indicating that it would. Saying this, I do take into account 
the telephone call made by Mr S after receiving the letter, as I dont think it was made  clear  
to him by the HSBC representative if this amount  would definitely be retaken or not. And this 
likely caused  him further frustration in not knowing what position hed be left in.
When taking all the above points into consideration I think  £300  is a fair amount of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. HSBC has already paid Mr S £50 
in compensation,  so it should pay him a further £250.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay Mr S £250  for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8429666