K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Advanced Payment  Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus failed to 
return a payment he incorrectly sent to the wrong  account in 2018.
background
Mr C tried to pay £550 into his Cashplus account  but used incorrect details. He said he was 
asked to provide  proof of the payment which he did but Cashplus  has failed to return  his 
money. Mr C would like compensation for whats happened and his money  returned  to him.
Cashplus says Mr C used incorrect account  details but says it returned the money  in 
October 2018 and so should be with the sender. It says it asked  Mr C to provide the 
remittance advice which he didnt  until some time after the money was sent.
Mr C had already brought his complaint to us and our investigator  upheld the complaint as 
he didnt think Cashplus had provided any evidence of the money being returned. The 
investigator considered  the Payment Services Regulations about these sorts of matters  and 
thought Mr C had provide  a copy of the trace.  The investigator made  clear  to Mr C that he 
may reconsider his view if Cashplus provided evidence that it had sent the money  back  to 
the sending account as it said it had.
The investigator recommended  Cashplus refund the £550  and pay 8% interest from 4 
October 2018. He also thought it should  pay Mr C £100 compensation.
Mr C agreed with the investigators view that was send to the parties in September 2019.
Cashplus hasnt replied  to that view or my request that it tell us if it can provide evidence  that 
it returned the money and why it hadnt replied to the investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons.
There is no question here that Mr C made a mistake and used the wrong Cashplus  account 
details. In those  circumstances I would have expected  Cashplus to have tried to help Mr C 
when he provided  the relevant remittance proof and a copy  of the trace.  I appreciate that 
Cashplus says it sent the money  back on 4 October  2018. But I dont think its provided any 
evidence of that. And Im satisfied that if Cashplus had sent that money back  then it would 
have evidence of that in a number of different forms. So as Cashplus hasnt provided  that 
evidence I come to the conclusion  on balance  that it wasnt  sent back.
I can see that Mr C says he hasnt received the money back and I accept that Mr C has 
spend some  time trying to find out where  his money  went. So I agree with the investigator 
that Cashplus should pay compensation for whats happened.  And I also agree with the 
investigators recommendation of £100 compensation. I think  that amount is fair and 
reasonable and fairly reflects whats taken place here and the impact  on Mr C.
Im satisfied that both the investigator  and myself  have given Cashplus more  than enough 
time to provide  some form of evidence  that it sent the money back.  But as it hasnt, overall 
Ref: DRN86288512Im satisfied on balance  that it should  refund Mr Cs money and pay the appropriate 8% 
interest from the day it said it sent the money  back on 4 October 2018. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited trading  as Cashplus to pay Mr C £550 and add 8% simple interest from 4 October 
2018 until its paid.  I also order  it to pay Mr C £100  compensation.  If Advanced Payment 
Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus considers that Income Tax should be deducted from 
any interest payment  then it should  provide Mr C with the appropriate certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8628851