K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company  which Ill call the company, has complained  about commercial  loans 
which it took out with Clydesdale Bank Plc between 2003 and 2008.
The company has said the bank increased  the interest margin, despite  the loans being  on 
fixed rates,  which caused difficulties  for the company and eventually the sale of several  
properties. 
The company has also mentioned its concerns about the potential  cost of repaying  the loans 
early (break  costs). 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She concluded:
It wasnt fair for the ombudsman service to investigate most of the companys 
complaint, as the company had promised not to make a complaint about most of the 
loans when it reached a legally binding  settlement with the bank.
The ombudsman service could,  however,  look into the companys concerns about the 
potential break costs under one of the loans, which wasnt covered  by the legal 
settlement.
With regard to that fixed rate loan, the bank hadnt adequately explained how large 
the break costs  might  be if the company wanted  or needed to repay the loan early.
In the adjudicators view, the company would, however, still have gone ahead with 
the loan even if the bank had provided  adequate information about the potential 
break costs. The loan had been  for only five years and it had expired without the 
company repaying it early  and without apparently having had any intention of 
repaying it early. And the loan hadnt been  obviously inappropriate for the companys 
business. Fixing the interest rate could give stability to a business,  particularly  one 
whose income was fixed or unlikely to vary much.
The company asked for an ombudsman to review its complaint. In doing so, the company 
referred to the damaging effect it said the banks actions had had on its fortunes.  It 
suggested that the bank  was trying to recoup  from smaller  business  customers  like itself the 
losses the bank  had incurred in lending  to larger corporate customers. 
The company also asked me to read certain newspaper articles which  relate to the bank and 
its dealings with corporate customers. The company also referred to a potential  conflict of 
interest affecting its financial adviser  which  if Ive understood the claim correctly  the bank 
was allegedly  instrumental in creating. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint the company  but I think the adjudicator was right to conclude  we cant 
fairly deal with most of the companys  complaint, including  the points raised by the company 
Ref: DRN84225492in response to the adjudicators conclusions.  This is for the reason she gave and which Ive 
summarised above, namely  that the company reached a legally binding settlement with the 
bank under which the company promised  not to make any further claims or complaints about 
most of the loans.
Regarding the one matter we can fairly look into  the potential break costs under the fixed  
rate loan which had expired before the legal  settlement was entered  into  Ive come to the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator. Like her, I think that even with better information 
beforehand about the size of the potential  break  costs, the company would still have taken 
out that loan. My reasons  are the same  as the adjudicators. 
my final decision
I dont uphold the companys complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8422549