K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
In May 2006, Mr and Mrs S bought  a MPPI  policy when they were  arranging their mortgage 
in a meeting with HSBC. The policy was set up to protect their repayments  and covered      
Mr S only against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs S say they were advised they had to have MPPI. They dont think the policy  was 
suitable as they had enough provisions at the time of sale.  They think  HSBC  mis-sold them  
the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As the complainants  dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because of the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the MPPI  policy was presented to Mr and Mrs S in the meeting. Ive 
looked at what  they said about  how the policy was sold  including that they were 
advised they had to have MPPI.
I have considered the documentation provided by HSBC  and also what I know of how it 
sold policies at that time.  I think,  after doing this, that it is more  likely to me that             
Mr and Mrs S were  advised by the representative from HSBC that it was a good idea to 
have the MPPI policy to protect  their repayments, and they took the insurance on that 
advice by signing the documentation  provided.
I have come to this conclusion after looking at the detail in the sales  documentation. I 
can see one form that is called  a your  mortgage  offer and on this form there is a 
heading optional  insurance where the PPI policy is listed  and a separate price given for 
it. I am persuaded  after seeing this that some discussion  most  likely would have been 
had around the suitability  of having  a MPPI policy, rather  than be added  as a compulsory 
requirement. So I think, on balance, Mr and Mrs S were advised to have MPPI and they 
took that advice  and had it.
I think HSBC recommended  the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs S, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for Mr S (as the sole policy holder) based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. I think he would have found the benefit offered by the policy 
useful.
Ref: DRN88888222I say this because  although Mr S says he had 12 months savings to fall back on, 
I consider that the policy provided  him with a useful additional benefit for a reasonable 
cost to protect Mr and Mrs Ss home  in the event that it was necessary to make a claim. 
Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would  have avoided protecting their repayments given 
the serious consequences of defaulting on a debt secured  against their home.
In addition, Mr S was self employed  and so I have checked the policy  document  to see if 
there were any terms for self employed  policy holders that would have  made the cover 
unsuitable for him. But the terms given for making a claim  are not onerous so I dont 
think this was the case. I can also see no other reasons such as any other significant or 
restrictive term that would make the policy unsuitable for him either.
I can see from the sales  documentation  that Mr and Mrs S were provided with the costs  
associated with the policy. It was reasonably priced  compared to similar policies 
available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  repayment. And Mr and Mrs S could 
have cancelled the PPI if it did become unaffordable.
It is possible HSBC didnt point  out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S wouldve been  affected by any of these based on their circumstances at 
the time.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but in conclusion I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8888822