K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP irresponsibly gave him loans which he couldnt 
afford to pay back. 
background 
Mr H took out 6 instalment loans with Uncle Buck between October 2016 and December 
2017.
He says he was borrowing  to repay  existing  loans and his credit file shows  his use of short 
term loans. Mr H says he was at a low point with his finances at the time and the loans 
shouldnt have been given to him.
In its final response letter  Uncle  Buck said it wasnt  wrong  to give Mr H loans 1 and 2 but it 
did offer to refund all interest and charges  from loans 3 to 6.
 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and said that in addition to the offer for loans 3 to 6 
Uncle Buck  should  refund  loans 1 to 3 as well. He thought that Uncle  Buck shouldnt have 
given Mr H any of the loans as his credit  check showed he was reliant  on short term credit 
as there  were 3 outstanding accounts and so he was having  problems managing his money. 
He thought that Uncle Buck should have seen that any further borrowing was unsustainable  
for Mr H.
Uncle Buck  didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion and in particular said that it wasnt 
responsible if Mr H didnt  correctly declare his finances. There were no recent  defaults  on Mr 
Hs credit  file and the loan was affordable on the figures he gave. Uncle  Buck was unable to 
identify the 3 short term lending accounts from its credit  check and said that there was only 
1. It didnt think that it was fair to remove any information from Mr Hs credit  file as this would 
give a misleading  picture  to future  lenders.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Uncle 
Buck should  fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN84472462the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.  Uncle Buck  has told us about the 
checks it did before lending to Mr H. It asked Mr H for details of his income and normal  
expenditure. And Uncle Buck carried  out checks on Mr Hs credit file. 
Uncle Buck  has agreed to refund  all interest and charges in relation  to loans 3 to 6 which  is 
in line with what I would ask it to do. I dont think I need to say anything  further about these 
loans but I have taken them into account  in considering Mr Hs borrowing pattern and I will 
include them  when I consider what should  be reflected in the credit file information as this 
isnt agreed by Uncle Buck. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that loans 1 and 2 were unsustainable for Mr H given the 
information contained in the credit check.
 
Mr H asked to borrow  loan 1 on 5 October 2016  for £400 repayable in 3 monthly instalments 
of £196.67. Mr H said he was earning  £1950 and his outgoings were £1350. 
I have looked  at the credit check undertaken by Uncle Buck on 5 October 2016. The format 
is difficult to interpret and our adjudicator asked for clarification  of Uncle  Bucks  analysis that 
there is only 1 short  term account but Uncle Buck didnt respond with any further information.
I can see that Mr H had 9 active accounts  and had opened 19 accounts  in the last 6 months.  
An account  was opened on 3 September 2016  which had a balance  of £700 and a monthly  
payment of £261.  An account was opened  on 24 September 2016 which had a balance  of 
£108 and a monthly repayment of £30 and a further  account was opened on 9 September 
2016 which had a balance of £350 with a repayment of £408  due in the next month. I think 
Ref: DRN84472463these look like short term accounts  because of the repayment amounts and the date of 
opening. 
In these circumstances I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to have  done  some further 
checking as Mr Hs declared income and outgoings was at odds with his borrowing pattern 
as can be seen from the reported  credit  information. Although  the loan looked affordable on 
a strict  pounds and pence calculation I think it was reasonable for Uncle Buck  to have seen  
that Mr H wasnt responsibly managing his money and appeared reliant  on short  term 
lending given the amount  and frequency of his borrowing. I think  Uncle  Buck should have 
been alerted to the possibility that he was borrowing to repay the credit so any further 
borrowing was unsustainable.  
And so I think Uncle Buck  shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend any money to 
Mr H.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Hs lending with Uncle Buck  to see if there was a point 
at which  Uncle Buck should reasonably  have  seen that further lending  was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Uncle Buck  should have realized that it wasnt reasonable to lend 
any more money to Mr H. I agree with the adjudicator that this point was reached by loan 4. 
When Mr H took out loan 4 he had been  borrowing consistently for around 6 months.  He 
wasnt making any inroads into the amount he owed which  stayed the same for the rest of 
his borrowing history.
I think Mr H lost out because Uncle Buck continued  to provide borrowing from loan 4 
onwards. This is because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Hs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans,  combined with the total length of time Mr H had been 
borrowing from Uncle Buck was likely to have had negative implications on his ability 
to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market  for these high cost loans.
So Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint about  all loans.
I think that Mr H shouldnt  have been  given these  loans so I dont think  any negative  
information should be reflected on his credit file and it is fair to remove  this negative 
information. I dont  agree that this would  give a misleading picture to lenders.  I think it 
would more accurately  reflect the position if Uncle Buck had not given these  loans.
Ref: DRN84472464putting things right   what Uncle Buck needs to do
refund  all interest fees and charges Mr H paid on all loans;
 Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr H towards 
the interest fees and charges, calculated from the date Mr H originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled. ;
 remove any negative information about  loans one to three  from Mr Hs credit  
file. The number of loans  taken from loan 4 means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about Loans 4 to 6 should  be removed 
from Mr Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle 
Buck must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance  LLP 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8447246