K820x#14complaint
Ms D has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  her a Graduate 
Additions packaged bank account in 2010.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already and he didnt think  that 
Barclays had mis-sold the Graduate Additions. Ms D disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at his complaint and make a final decision.  
This decision will only be looking at the sale of Ms Ds Graduate  Additions  account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Ive carefully thought  about everything Ive seen on this complaint. And having done  so, 
I dont think this complaint  should be upheld. I will explain why .
Ive started by thinking about whether Ms D was given a clear  choice in taking the account. 
At this point, it may help for me to explain  that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened  having  weighed up what Ms D and Barclays  have been 
able to provide  me with.  
In this instance Ms D has not said that she was not given a fair choice in taking out this 
account. Ms D in her initial complaint to Barclays  has mentioned  that she took out the 
account in order  to get better rates on credit cards  and loans.  But I cannot see that she took 
out these products during  the time that she held this account and therefore  I dont  think  that 
this was the reason she took out the account.  So overall I am satisfied that Ms D took out the 
account knowing that free accounts were  an option for her and that she did not have to take 
out this account  if she did not want it. 
Ms D says the account was recommended to her. Barclays  has maintained that no personal 
recommendation was made. From my understanding of Barclays procedures at the time the 
account was taken out, I think  it is more likely  than not that no recommendation was made. I 
say this as I cant see that the account was sold to Ms D following a review  of her 
circumstances at the time. That said, even if the account was recommended  to Ms D, I do 
not think that the recommendation  wouldve  been unreasonable. This is because even 
though Ms D says that she did not need  the breakdown cover or mobile phone  insurance 
that the account came with the other  main  benefit  that the account came  with was an interest  
free overdraft facility  and I think this feature of the account was important to her.
Prior to the upgrade, Ms D had a Higher  Education  account and this account also came with 
an interest free overdraft.  But importantly, the amount of the overdraft that was interest free 
on the Higher Education account was less than that of the Graduate  Additions account. Ms 
D was using her overdraft and looking at her statements, I can see she was paying interest 
on her overdraft on a monthly  basis. And this amount was frequently  more than the monthly  
fee of the Graduate  Additions account. So, in essence, by upgrading to the Graduate  
Ref: DRN83952152Additions account, it was likely Ms D would  pay less per month in overdraft interest and the 
Graduate Additions monthly account  fee, than she was paying in overdraft interest  on the 
Higher Education  account. And I think  it was because  of this saving that the account was 
most likely sold to Ms D. 
I should also add that the Higher Education account  was only available to a graduate  for two 
years. At the time of the upgrade, Ms D was shortly  going to reach the two year anniversary 
of having that account, at which point she would either have  to change her account  to the 
Graduate Additions account or to a standard current account and pay interest on the entirety 
of her overdraft. And because of the size of Ms Ds overdraft at the time, this wouldve been 
considerably more than the monthly  cost of the Graduate  Additions account.  So even if the 
account was recommended to her, I do not think that this recommendation wouldve been 
unreasonable.
I accept that Ms D may not have  been  told everything about all of the other  benefits  that the 
account came with. But I cannot  see anything specific that she was not told that I think 
wouldve altered  her decision to take out the account.
Overall I am satisfied that Ms D took out this account in all likelihood so that she could 
benefit from the interest free overdraft facility and that the account was beneficial  to her 
during the time she held it. This is further  evidenced by her downgrading at the same time as 
her paying  off the overdraft in March 2011.
I want to reassure Ms D that Ive looked at all the information provided  about this complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. Although having done so and while  I 
appreciate that this will be very disappointing  for her, I dont think  that Barclays mis-sold the 
Graduate Additions account to her. So Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8395215