K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly closed her accounts.
background
Mrs B opened two accounts with Barclays on or around 13 May 2018. Barclays says that as 
part of its normal process further checks were  then carried out, following which  it issued a 
notice of immediate  closure on 21 May 2018.  
Mrs B complained to Barclays.  Barclays didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint, so Mrs B brought 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator who reviewed Mrs Bs complaint didnt  think Barclays did anything  wrong.  
Mrs B disagreed. The matter has therefore been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays is entitled to fairly and reasonably  commercially decide not to continue its 
relationship with a customer, in the same way Mrs B could have decided  she no longer 
wished to bank  with Barclays. Barclays decision to do this is not something we would 
generally interfere  with, as this would impinge on its freedom to decide who it wants  as a 
customer, which includes existing customers.
Barclays says it is a normal part of its process  to carry  out further checks  after an account 
has been opened. And I can see that following completion of these checks,  there is a letter 
dated 21 May 2018, addressed from Barclays to Mrs B, in which  Barclays said that following 
a review of Mrs Bs accounts, it was unable to continue to act as her bank, and that her 
accounts would therefore be closed on 21 May 2018  in accordance  with its commercial and 
other obligations under the account  terms and conditions. 
Mrs B says that she was only provided  with this letter by her local branch on 24 May 2018;  
that if Barclays had given her adequate notice of the closures she would have avoided 
particular costs and inconvenience; that she lost an account bonus of £168  due in the first 
year; that shes concerned this will affect  her credit rating; and that she understands from the 
media that there have been  many  similar cases with Barclays,  and victims are likely to be 
non-British nationals which suggests  racial  related discrimination. Ive considered this point, 
but Ive not seen evidence  to support that Barclays decision was in any way related to 
Mrs Bs race.  
Whilst I understand Mrs Bs strength of feeling,  businesses have a legal obligation to comply  
with various laws and regulations.  The terms and conditions  of Mrs Bs accounts also 
permitted Barclays to close  the accounts  without  notice in certain circumstances. Having 
considered those terms, Im satisfied  Barclays acted in line with them.  I know Mrs B wants  
Barclays to explain the reason it closed her accounts. And I can understand Mrs Bs 
frustration that she hasnt been  given  a detailed explanation. But Barclays  is under no 
obligation to provide this information to Mrs B, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant  say 
Barclays has done anything wrong  by not providing this information to her. 
Ref: DRN80495762Ive considered everything Mrs B has said, including that she wasnt given the notice of 
closure until 24 May 2018 and that she lost an account bonus  of £168 due in the first year. 
But as I have said, Im not persuaded Barclays has done anything  wrong  in closing Mrs Bs 
account without  notice, and these points  dont change my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8049576