K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs C says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs C took out in 2001.  It was 
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL should have  taken  reasonable steps to make  it clear the PPI was optional.  Mrs C says 
she wasnt aware she had PPI. 
FICL has provided a copy of Mrs Cs application  form. The form has a section for the PPI 
and applicants have  to sign this section if they wish to take out the policy. Mrs C signed the 
section. And she signed the overall credit  agreement  so I think  if there was anything  on the 
form she wasn't sure about or hadn't agreed  to, she would've had the opportunity to question  
it at the time.  
On balance I think FICL made it clear that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And the PPI wouldve 
paid out on top of any sick pay Mrs C was entitled  to, as well as helping her cover payments 
if she lost her job. Mrs C says she had savings but having the PPI wouldve meant her 
savings could have  been used for other essential costs if she was unable  to work due to 
illness or become  unemployed. So I think it would  have  been useful for her if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN89108802Ive thought carefully about everything Mrs C has said, but for the reasons  explained  above  
these points dont  change my decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8910880