K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Intrinsic Financial Planning Ltd failed to provide him with suitable advice 
about his pensions in December 2013.  Mr C has used  a claims management company 
(CMC) to help him make his complaint.
background
The advice that Mr C is complaining about  was provided by an appointed representative of 
Intrinsic. So although Mr C had no direct  contact with Intrinsic  before making his complaint, it 
is responsible for the advice he was given.  And although Mr C dealt entirely with the 
appointed representative I will generally refer to them as Intrinsic throughout this decision 
for simplicity.  And similarly, although  Mr C has been represented by his CMC in making  this 
complaint, I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr C.
Mr C was contacted  by Intrinsic in 2013 and offered a review  of his financial arrangements.  
He accepted that offer and met with Intrinsic in November. 
In November 2013, Mr C met with an Intrinsic adviser. At the time:
-He was 51 years old, married and in good health. He had no dependent  children  and 
had a selected retirement age of 65. 
-He was self-employed and earning  about  £20,000 a year.  
-He had two personal  pension  policies  and was paying £30 gross into one of his 
plans. One was worth about £13,800  and the other  was about £1,350. 
-His main objective was recorded  as wanting to transfer his benefits  to get better  
investment prospects  and invest into an area that he was comfortable with. He also 
wanted to consolidate  his plans  and have access to external fund managers.  
On 3 December  2013, Intrinsic  wrote to Mr C. The letter explained  that Mr C had told 
Intrinsic that the only aspect of his finances he wanted to review  at that time was his 
pensions.
In the report Intrinsic provided Mr C with details of the charges he had agreed to pay for its 
initial advice.  This was agreed to be 4% of his pension  investment and to be paid by a 
deduction from his pension fund.
Intrinsic explained  that it considered his current investments  to be higher risk than the risk 
profile he had completed and agreed  at their initial meeting. And it considered that his 
investments were under-performing similar  funds in the market  at that time. So it 
recommended that Mr C should switch his pension investments  into alternative funds.
Intrinsic advised Mr C that it would be beneficial to hold his pension  funds in a self-invested  
personal pension  (SIPP).  It noted that this would provide a number of benefits, and although 
there were also some  downsides to that change, it thought that overall the change would be 
in Mr Cs interests.
Mr C accepted the advice given by Intrinsic and his pension funds were transferred to the 
SIPP early  the following  year.  He continued  to make contributions of £30 every month.
Ref: DRN85374572Mr C complained to Intrinsic in November  2017  that the advice he had received was 
unsuitable. Intrinsic didnt agree with his complaint so he brought  the matter to this Service. 
Mr Cs complaint has been investigated  by one of our adjudicators. Ultimately she concluded  
that the complaint should be upheld and asked Intrinsic to pay Mr C some  compensation. 
Intrinsic didnt agree with that conclusion. They said that the report  the adjudicator  relied on 
was over ten years old and pensions legislation and adviser charging has changed since 
then. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before he was approached by Intrinsic  Mr C had two personal  pension two plans with a 
single provider. He had held those plans  since  1990  and 1997,  and told Intrinsic that they 
hadnt been reviewed since they were taken out. In total Mr Cs two plans were worth around 
£15,000 at that time and he was making  regular monthly contributions to one of the plans.
The advice process started with Mr C being cold called.  In my view, this is important as it 
suggests that without this intervention hed have carried on as he was.
The client  agreement was signed in January 2014. I think  this is also important as Mr C 
should have been told how much the advice would cost before being advised. If he hadnt 
agreed to pay for the advice then it seems  to me that there is a conflict  of interest. Clearly, if 
Mr C couldnt or wouldnt  pay for the advice, then for the adviser to be paid they needed to 
recommend a transfer.
The illustrations that have been  provided  arent on the same  basis.  The personal pension  
illustration assumes no further premiums  are paid. The SIPP  illustration assumes £30 a 
month increasing with RPI. Ii isnt clear  to me how the additional 0.17% was arrived  at. 
Neither could I find the charges for the smaller plan. 
I think theres a contradiction in the suitability  report. It says early  on:
Our discussions have also led us to conclude that a single manager  approach  to 
investment is most likely to be suited  to your pension needs  and objectives  because 
you are not comfortable  with paying  higher charges relevant to a multi-manager  
investment approach even though this approach gives  you the opportunity to have 
access to a best of breed  fund manager  approach of investment with as a multi  
manager approach provides a level of investment  flexibility and diversification that an 
ordinary managed fund cannot  offer. However, you prefer to keep to a single 
manager approach as after discussions around various investment options you feel 
that this approach will meet with your pension objectives.
But when discussing why stakeholder wasnt suitable it says:
A Stakeholder is not suitable to you as you wish to have more  flexibility  in your 
pension plan which means having access to over 3500 funds which you feel is crucial 
to you as you approach  your retirement  as you wish to have as many funds available 
to you as possible to maximise your growth potential on your pension.
Ref: DRN85374573In my view, the first paragraph makes  the case for a simple stakeholder plan. And I take the 
view this is driven by the adviser. Mr C doesnt appear to have  any investment experience 
and hadnt reviewed his pension until he was cold called.
In its initial  meeting with Mr C, Intrinsic assessed  his attitude to risk using a standard  
questionnaire approach.  From that assessment Intrinsic concluded  that Mr C had a 
balanced attitude  to risk. I accept  that assessment.
Intrinsics assessment of Mr Cs current pension investments  concluded that they were 
unsuitable for him in two main  aspects. The plans that Mr C invested in had shown a 
relatively high level of volatility over the past three years. Intrinsic considered that this 
volatility level would be more suited  to an investor  with a higher Moderate or Dynamic risk 
profile. And Intrinsic thought that the investment returns  from the two plans were  lower than 
might have been achieved elsewhere in the market.
Intrinsic recommended that Mr C transfer his pension benefits into a different investment. 
And it advised him to hold that investment in a SIPP. It identified  that doing so would provide 
Mr C with the ability to invest in a wider  range  of options than those offered by his existing 
provider. And it thought  that this arrangement would provide Mr C with improved 
administrative options both while he was still investing, and on retirement.
But there were also some  downsides to the transfer  that were  identified by Intrinsic.  By 
transferring one of his pension plans, Mr Cs provider  would  apply a small deduction  to his 
fund value. And the future annual administration  charge would be higher than Mr C was 
paying on the larger of his two existing pension plans.
Intrinsic calculated that in order  to cover the increased administration  charge  on the larger  
plan, the new investment  would need  to return  an additional 0.17% each year,  although this 
would be offset  to a limited degree  by lower  charges on the smaller  plan. 
The adjudicator explained that the FSA had issued a report  in December 2008 titled Quality  
of advice on pension  switching. The report summarised its findings into their review of 
pension switching advice  and it gave good  examples of good, compliant advice compared to 
poor practices it found of the quality  of advice given since  pension  A-day.  It noted  the 
following as examples of what  it considered unsuitable advice:
A pension incurring extra product costs without good reason (this outcome involved 
assessing cases where, for example,  the reason for the switch  was for investment 
flexibility, but this was not likely to be used;  the reason  was fund performance,  but 
there was no evidence the new scheme was likely to be better; or the reason was 
flexibility of a drawdown option, but there was no evidence  that this option was 
needed).
A pension that was more expensive than a stakeholder pension,  but a stakeholder  
pension would have  met the customers needs.
A more expensive pension in order to consolidate different  pension  schemes, but 
where the extra cost was not explained  or justified  to the customer.
Mr C hadnt made any changes to his existing policies since they started. He was 
contributing £30 gross a month. The total funds were about  £15,000.  Im satisfied that Mr C 
didnt want, or need, a wide range of funds. I agree with the adjudicator that there  was no 
good reason for the switch to the SIPP.  In my view, he should  have  been  advised to either 
keep his existing  pension plans, or transfer  to a stakeholder plan.
Ref: DRN85374574fair compensation
My aim is that Mr C should be put as closely  as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr C would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr Cs circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
what should  Intrinsic  do?
To compensate Mr C fairly, Intrinsic must:
Compare the performance of Mr Cs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, Intrinsic  should pay into Mr Cs pension plan to increase its value by 
the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should  allow 
for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Intrinsic  is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr Cs pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Cs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement. Mr C is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. The reduction should  equal  the current basic rate of tax. However, as 
Mr C would  have  been able to take a tax free lump sum,  the reduction should  be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the loss to his 
pension fund.
Intrinsic should add interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable  on any interest  
paid. If Intrinsic deducts income tax from the interest it should tell Mr C how much has been 
taken off. Intrinsic should give Mr C a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
payment 
Ref: DRN85374575actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr C wanted capital  growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Cs circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Intrinsic  Financial Planning Ltd should  pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Intrinsic should provide  details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8537457