K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA)  have incorrectly  declined  a claim on 
his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr M has a credit  card with a company  which for the purposes of this decision we will call 
BSC. One of the benefits provided  with the BSC credit card is a travel insurance policy 
underwritten by IPA. The travel insurance policy  includes Hole in one benefit. 
On page two of the policy under the heading Important Information  it says:
1.
2.
3.
4.In order to be eligible  to receive benefits under this Benefit Schedule  you must 
charge the eligible item in Section U - Purchase  Protection and the green  fees in 
Section R3  Hole In One Benefit, in full to your BSC credit  card.
5.
Provided the criteria  set out under the policy is met, if you shoot a Hole-in-One during a golf 
game then the policy provides cover for up to €250  towards bar expenses.
Mr M is a member  of a golf club and pays his green  fees by direct debit through  his bank. Mr 
M did shoot a Hole-in-one and made a claim under this policy. IPA declined  the claim,  Mr M 
complained about this and IPA issued its final response letter saying it wouldnt meet  the 
claim as Mr M hadnt paid his bar bill with his BSC credit card. 
Mr M was unhappy with this and so brought his complaint to our service.  The investigator 
initially didnt  uphold  the complaint. In summary he said although IPA had quoted the 
incorrect reason for declining the claim in its final response letter, the policy was clear  that 
the green  fees needed to be paid on the BSC credit card for the hole-in-one cover to be in 
force and therefore he couldnt ask IPA to pay the claim. Mr M disagreed with the 
investigator.
The investigator considered things again,  he asked IPA to show what  if any detriment there 
was to it by Mr M having not paid the green  fees using his BSC credit card. IPA said there 
was no detriment to it but there was detriment to BSC as its client. The investigator went  on 
to uphold the complaint saying as IPA had suffered no detriment it should pay the claim. IPA 
disagreed and so the investigator discussed the case with me. 
In trying to resolve the matter informally I spoke to IPA to understand the need for the green 
fees to be paid using the BSC credit card. It referred me back  the policy terms and 
conditions and said that it felt the policy was clear that without this condition being  met the 
cover hadnt  started  and therefore Mr M didnt have  an eligible claim.
The investigator looked at the policy in detail and realised that it is the credit card provider 
BSC that is the policy holder and Mr M is only a beneficiary under the policy.  Because  of 
this the investigator  said that BSC and IPA were entitled to agree the terms of the policy and 
say that the BSC credit card needed  to be used to pay for the green fees for the hole-in-one 
cover to start.
Ref: DRN89961102Mr M didnt  agree and so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have  happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all the submissions made  before arriving at my decision. 
Having done so, I have to tell Mr K that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
As BSC is the policy holder, the contract  of insurance is between it and IPA. As such  BSC 
and IPA are entitled  to agree the terms of the policy including any clauses,  exclusions  or 
special requirements,  as it has in the case of the payment of the green fees being made with 
the BSC credit card. 
Mr M as a beneficiary must adhere to the terms agreed between  BSC and IPA in order to be 
eligible to make a claim.  The benefit schedule outlines what he is entitled to under  the 
policy. Its clear  that if he wants to be able to claim for the hole-in  one benefit  he needs to 
fulfil the requirement  set out of paying the green fees using the BSC card.  As he didnt do 
this the benefit  of this cover was never in place and so Mr M is not entitled to make a claim  
under this section  of the policy.
Because of this I wont be asking IPA to pay Mr Ms claim.
Ref: DRN89961103my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN8996110