K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Mapfre  Asistencia,  Compania Internacional De Seguros  y Reaseguros,  
S.A. turned  down her cancellation claim under her travel insurance policy with it. 
Mrs Hs husband is representing her in this complaint.  Ill refer to his comments  as being  
Mrs Hs for simplicity. 
My references to Mapfre include its agent. 
background
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, which forms part of this 
final decision. I explained that I intended to uphold this complaint but for different reasons 
from those given by our adjudicator. I include an extract from my provisional decision here:
In May 2018  Mrs H booked a long haul trip for herself and her two children to visit close  
family abroad that August.  In July she took out travel insurance with Mapfre. Shortly before 
they left one of Mrs Hs children (who  Ill call Miss B) became ill, needed an urgent hospital 
procedure and was advised by her doctor  not to travel. Mrs H cancelled the trip and claimed 
the cancellation costs from Mapfre.
Mapfre turned down the claim. Initially it said Mrs H hadnt declared  Miss Bs medical  
condition, which it said was irritable bowel syndrome  or IBS.  Mrs H disagreed, saying there 
hadnt been any diagnosis either when shed booked the trip or when shed bought the 
insurance policy. The diagnosis had been made only after the August procedure.  (I note the 
medical certificate says this was for inflammatory  bowel disease   and not IBS).
Mapfre then accepted Mrs H couldnt have declared a condition that hadnt been  diagnosed 
in July 2018. But it referred  her to the medical  exclusion section in its policy  that said that it 
wouldnt cover  any claim  arising from a medical  condition where someone was waiting for 
medical tests or treatment  for any undiagnosed  set of symptoms.  It said it would reconsider 
the claim,  subject to information from Miss Bs doctor about whether she was waiting for any 
tests or treatment relating to symptoms  that later led to the diagnosis of IBS.  
Mrs H didnt think this was fair. She couldnt reasonably have  known when booking  the trip 
and buying the insurance that the symptoms she and Miss B had discussed  with her GP in 
March would have  led to the August 2018 diagnosis and cancellation of the trip. That was 
the case even  if the GP later linked those  symptoms with the August illness. She came to us.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint. She asked Mapfre  what it would have done if it 
had known about Miss Bs symptoms when Mrs H had taken out the policy. Our adjudicator  
said Mapfres response was that there was no condition to declare  and that it would have 
issued the policy anyway. So she upheld the complaint  and said Mapfre  should  pay the 
claim, with 8% simple  interest. 
Mrs H accepted the outcome but Mapfre didnt.  It said our adjudicator had misunderstood  its 
response to her question, and that it simply wouldnt have covered an undiagnosed  
condition. So the complaints come to me for review. 
Ref: DRN80362122my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I also uphold this 
complaint but for slightly different reasons from our adjudicator. Ill explain why. 
Mapfre asked Mrs H a series  of questions before she took out her travel insurance policy 
with it online. This means specific legislation applies in this case called The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). 
Under CIDRA the insurer has a remedy against  the consumer only if theyve failed to take 
reasonable care in answering the insurers clear questions. If they didnt take reasonable 
care, then this is known  as a misrepresentation. And CIDRA says that if an insurer would 
have offered the policy only on different  terms then the insurer  can treat the policy as if it had 
been set up on those different terms. And here Mapfre says it wouldnt have covered Miss B 
if it had known shed  been waiting for medical  tests or treatment for any undiagnosed set of 
symptoms. 
Mapfre did ask Mrs H some questions before she took out the policy. But rather  than look at 
whether she answered  those questions carefully, Mapfre wrongly relied on a policy  exclusion 
about tests or treatment  for undiagnosed  symptoms. Mrs H says, with reference  to case  law 
that she couldnt reasonably have known Miss B had a condition  at the time she took out the 
policy. I accept that. And in any event as Mapfre asked Mrs H questions before she took out 
the policy it cant now use a policy exclusion  to contract out of the provisions of CIDRA. 
So I need to decide whether Mrs H took reasonable care in answering Mapfres  questions  at 
the time she took out the policy. The questions she was asked online are also on page  two 
of the policy  document:
2. In the last two years have you or any person insured on this policy suffered from or 
received any form of medical  advice, medical  treatment or medication  for:
Any bowel condition including,  but not limited  to, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) or 
Crohns Disease?
3. And finally, at any time in the past 12 months,  have  you or any person insured on this 
policy been referred to or seen by a hospital doctor or surgeon (other  than an A&E Doctor),  
or needed in-patient treatment in hospital.
Mrs H didnt answer yes to these questions.  If she had answered yes and wanted cover  
shed have had to select another product or have called Mapfre. 
Mapfre itself accepts that Mrs H couldnt  have told it about a medical condition  (IBS) that 
hadnt been diagnosed  at the point  she applied for the policy.  So theres  no dispute she 
answered question  two correctly. In any event, I note that there  was no indication  Miss B had 
been received  advice  or treatment for a bowel condition at the point Mrs H applied for the 
policy. 
Question three asks about referrals to a hospital doctor or surgeon.  Mrs H didnt tell Mapfre  
about any referral for Miss B. But she could  only answer this question to the best of her 
knowledge and belief, and I think she did so. She says that Miss Bs March  2018 GP 
appointment was about other  issues  in particular insomnia  and the discussion about  her 
Ref: DRN80362123intermittent diarrhoea, constipation and bloating was incidental. Mrs H had asked whether it 
might be related to Miss Bs acne  medication.  And while some bleeding was mentioned, 
Mrs H understood this might be period related spotting. The GP reassured her and ordered 
some blood  tests. A week  or so later they discussed  the thyroid function test results,  which 
were borderline on one measure and the GP arranged for the tests  to be repeated in two 
months time. 
Mrs Hs comments  that shed  been concerned about insomnia are further borne out by her 
telephone conversation with the GP on 30 May 2018  about the repeated  blood tests,  when 
she wondered  if insomnia could be caused  by a thyroid problem. The GP said the results 
were only borderline  underactive, but the tests  werent diagnostic  and would be repeated in 
three months time.  
In early April 2018 Miss Bs GP had written a referral  letter for Miss B to see a paediatrician. 
The letter doesnt appear to have been copied  to Mrs H. And the GPs notes say this referral 
was both routine  and non-urgent. As our adjudicator says its not clear  that Mrs H was aware 
of the referral at the time. The GP couldnt  say when the appointment was confirmed. Either 
way, Mrs H had understood from the doctor  that there was nothing to worry about, having 
visited the GP with issues around  insomnia and possible hyperactivity. I dont think she 
thought Miss B had been referred to hospital for an undiagnosed  set of symptoms  (or for any 
medical condition). 
The appointment with the paediatrician  was not until 17 July 2018 five days  after Mrs H 
bought the insurance. At the time she applied for the policy  around four months had passed  
since the March  2018 GPs appointment. And it was only after the paediatricians 
appointment that Miss B referred to a gastroenterologist.  Even  then the paediatrician didnt 
seem unduly  concerned.  It was only when Miss B had a sudden, serious bleeding  episode  in 
early August  that an urgent  appointment was arranged, followed  by the procedure. Mrs H 
was only then advised to cancel the trip.
So I think Mrs H took reasonable care in answering  the questions Mapfre had asked her 
when she applied for the policy.  Shed been  reassured by the GP and blood test results, and 
I think she answered Mapfres questions  to the best of her knowledge  and belief. 
As I think  Mrs H took reasonable care it follows that Mapfre should pay her claim, subject to 
the policy limit and any applicable excess. It should  add simple  8% interest as set out below. 
I also think Mapfres handling  of the claim has caused Mrs H distress and inconvenience at 
any already difficult time for her and Miss B. It wrongly said shed not declared a condition,  
which it later accepted she couldnt  have  known about when she took out the policy. It then 
said it would  consider her claim but didnt deal with the comments  she made about its 
proposal to write to Miss Bs GP. It had asked her questions before taking out the policy but 
it then relied on a policy exclusion to reject  the claim. I think  Mapfre should pay Mrs H some 
moderate compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused her, and I assess £200 
to be fair and reasonable.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs H responded to say, in summary, that:
She agreed with my provisional  decision,  which she thought  was well structured and 
well reasoned.
Ref: DRN80362124She agreed with the financial settlement I proposed.
But, if Mapfre failed to comply  within a reasonable time, she would like to reserve all 
rights including,  but not limited to: the right to claim a higher amount for distress and 
inconvenience with respect to any period before or after the decision; the right to 
claim other  expenses,  including but not limited to legal fees; and the right to base her 
claims, or further  claims, before  a court  of law or regulatory or administrative  body, 
on grounds other than those mentioned  in the decision.
If Mapfre is willing to comply  with the decision on a timely basis,  Mrs H would be 
willing to relinquish  all further claims in a full and final settlement agreement.  She 
hopes Mapfre will take this option to avoid  causing  further anguish  in this distressing 
situation. 
Mapfre responded to say, in summary, that:
It wanted clarification on the application of the specific term that the policy does not 
provide cover for any symptoms or medical  conditions that are present and 
undiagnosed at the point  of purchase.
It doesnt seek to contract out of CIDRA. Its point is that it agrees the 
misrepresentation was not present on the basis that undiagnosed  symptoms  where  
symptoms are present  cannot be declared. Its assertion is that such a term is 
common within the travel insurance  industry and is expressly provided to exclude  
cover for medical conditions under investigation  because the risk posed  by the 
condition is not quantifiable. 
It asserts the application of the term (about undiagnosed conditions) is both fair and 
reasonable it asks me to further  consider this point. If I disagree it asks for clarity of 
the rationale, as this decision might affect its pricing  integrity  and screening process. 
Also it asks that this rationale isnt published in a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the comments  Ive received  but I still think a fair and reasonable outcome  
is to uphold this complaint  for the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision and here in 
this final decision.  As Mapfre is aware  my decisions are published on our public website, and 
I cant see any reason for this decision not to be published.
In this case, Mapfre asked Mrs H questions before she applied  for the policy.  For the 
reasons Ive already given I remain of the view that she answered  those questions with 
reasonable care. This means, in terms of the relevant legislation  CIDRA  that Mapfre 
doesnt have a remedy against  her. In other  words,  it cant  avoid the claim or pay the claim 
proportionately on the grounds  of any misrepresentation. 
Mapfre has clarified that it doesnt  intend to contract out of CIDRA. That may be so. But it 
seems to me that it is effectively doing so, by seeking to rely on its policy  exclusion about  
undiagnosed conditions to decline Mrs Hs claim.  Its not entitled to do that, where to rely on 
such a policy  exclusion results in a worse outcome for Mrs H than under CIDRA. The full 
provision is set out in CIDRA section 10:
I am aware  that a travel insurance policy often doesnt cover  undiagnosed  symptoms  or 
conditions. But in this specific case I find that Mrs H answered Mapfres questions  to the best 
Ref: DRN80362125of her knowledge and belief. And that means  Mapfre isnt entitled  to decline her claim or pay 
it proportionately. If Mapfre  considers that it needs  to review the screening questions  for 
underwriting purposes  then thats  a matter for it to decide. 
So for the reasons Ive explained  I uphold this complaint, and I require Mapfre to pay the 
claim with interest and pay Mrs H £200  for distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs H has clearly explained  the basis on which shes willing to accept the findings Ive set 
out in my provisional  decision and my proposed settlement. Shes  also set out the 
circumstances in which she might  wish to reserve her rights around  the settlement.
Our adjudicator has sent Mrs H our information  sheet which explains what  an ombudsmans  
final decision  means for her. In summary,  if she accepts my final decision by the date set out 
below then it becomes  legally  binding  on both herself and Mapfre. And her acceptance of my 
final decision  also means that it wont be open to her to reserve her rights in the way shes 
proposed. 
Ive set out below the time limit for Mapfre to comply with my final decision. If Mrs H accepts 
my final decision and Mapfre doesnt comply (and Ive no reason to suspect that it will not) 
then Mrs H is able to enforce my final decision in court. In the very unlikely event that 
becomes necessary our adjudicator can give Mrs H further  information  about enforcing a 
final decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision I order Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mrs Hs claim,  
subject to the policy limit and any applicable excess.  It must add simple  interest* at the rate 
of 8% per year from the date of claim until the date of payment. 
I also order Mapfre to pay Mrs H £200  compensation  for distress  and inconvenience. Mapfre 
Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. must also pay the total 
compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs H accepts my final decision. 
If it pays later than this it must also pay interest*  on the compensation from the date of my 
final decision  until the date of payment at 8% per year simple.
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Mapfre is not entitled to rely on any pre-existing medical 
condition exclusions in the policy to reject the claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mrs H how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs H a certificate  showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8036212