K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream,  wrongly applied  late 
payment markers  to his credit file.
background
Mr D called Lending Stream to make an early repayment on a loan in July 2018. Lending 
Stream were unable  to take the repayment  because of technical issues and Mr D made a 
number of attempts  to repay the amount. Mr D complained about  the additional interest 
applied to his account and made a formal complaint to Lending Stream.
Whilst Lending Stream were investigating  Mr Ds complaint it reported two late repayments  
on Mr Ds credit file. Mr D said that the repayment  markers were having  a negative effect on 
his ability  to get car finance and causing  him significant disruption so he brought  his 
complaint to this service.
In order to resolve his complaint Lending Stream  agreed to remove the late repayment 
markers from Mr Ds credit file, waive all interest and charges on the loan and pay Mr D £30.
Our adjudicator considered that this was fair and reasonable and in line with what  we would 
ask Lending Stream  to do. He didnt think it was fair to ask Lending Stream to do any more.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  view and said he was disappointed and the offer was 
derisory. So the complaint has been  passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator for similar  reasons.
I can see from Lending Streams file that the business was unable to take Mr Ds early 
repayment in July 2018 and the business did not properly deal with Mr Ds complaint about  
the matter. It seems that the business reported  the late repayment markers incorrectly which  
I dont doubt caused Mr D upset and inconvenience. Mr D says that he has lost around 
£1000 in extra fees and expenses because he was unable to get car finance.
Our adjudicator asked  Mr D for evidence about the problems he had getting car finance but 
he hasnt provided  this. Without  more evidence, I cant say that it is fair that the business 
should pay Mr D compensation for this loss.
From the information I have seen in the business file it seems  that the business waived all 
interest and charges on the loan and Mr D repaid it on 5 November 2018. The business has 
said that it has also taken  steps to remove  the late repayment markers. I think that this is fair 
and reasonable and in line with what I would ask it to do in order  to put right the original error 
in taking the repayment. 
As I said above, without  more evidence in relation to Mr Ds losses I cant say that the offer 
of £30 is unreasonable or derisory. I appreciate that Mr D thinks  that it is inadequate but this 
service does not award punitive amounts to punish  businesses for mistakes.  I can only 
award what I think is fair and reasonable to compensate for out of pocket expenses. I agree  
Ref: DRN89960312with the adjudicator that the offer of £30 is fair and reasonable given the other  steps taken by 
the business. I will leave  it to Mr D to decide  whether  he wishes  to accept it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8996031