K820x#14complaint
Mrs F says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  Financial 
Insurance Company Limited  (FICL), as the insurer, have  taken  responsibility  for the sale.  To 
keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather than any other business.
background
Mrs F bought the policy in 1996 at the same time as taking out a store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The store card application had a section for PPI. It gave some brief details about  the policy,  
and then had a box Mrs F could tick if she wanted  to buy it and was happy to pay for it, or 
which could be left blank  if she didnt want it. The box was ticked,  and Mrs F signed the 
application. So I think that FICL  made  Mrs F aware  she had a choice about  buying the PPI, 
and that she chose to take it at the time.,
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs F, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs F enough information  to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information FICL gave Mrs F about PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, Mrs F chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. While Mrs F said she had some good  sick pay, the PPI covered  her for longer and 
paid out on top. And it doesnt look like she had any other cover in case  she lost her job. 
Mrs F did have  a medical condition which wouldnt have been covered. But based on what  
shes told us, it doesnt seem like it wouldve significantly affected her ability  to work. Its 
worth bearing in mind  that this policy was only for periods of illness that were 30 continuous  
days or more, so it doesnt  seem likely that Mrs Fs condition would cause her to need  to 
claim. Overall, it doesnt look like Mrs F was significantly affected  by this exclusion,  and 
I cant see that she was affected by any of the other exclusions  or limitations.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI could  have been useful for Mrs F in case  she 
fell on difficult times.  And so I dont think better information about the PPI was likely to have 
put her off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN81521862my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8152186