K821x#15complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled a 
claim for accidental damage under her home  insurance policy.
background
Miss G contacted RSA to make a claim for accidental damage.  She said while shed left 
her two year old son unattended, hed damaged a sofa by jumping  on it and hed also 
drawn on two cream leather arm chairs.
RSA said it would treat these as two separate incidents because there were different items 
and the damage  to them was different, so two £250 excesses would apply.
Miss G complained about that. RSA didnt  change its decision but it paid her £50 
compensation for the time it had taken to confirm the position  about the excesses.  She also 
complained about the fact that RSA had deducted  15% from the cash  settlement it made  in 
respect of the claim. RSA accepted that its supplier hadnt explained this to Miss G. It said 
it would  repay this and also paid her a further  £100 compensation.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator upheld it. He thought RSA 
should pay Miss G £200 being the balance of the second excess  payment after taking into 
account the £50 it had already paid her in compensation.  He also said if RSA had entered a 
record of two claims on any external  database, it should remove  one and transfer  any 
related claim  costs to the remaining claim.  He didnt think  RSA should pay any more  
compensation to Miss G because he was satisfied it had handled her claim in a reasonable 
and timely  manner.
As RSA didnt agree, the matter has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Gs policy defines excess as the first part of any claim which you must pay. It 
doesnt refer to incidents or events. 
Miss G says the damage shes  claiming  for happened while  she was having  a shower. It 
involved two different activities  scribbling  with a pen and jumping on furniture. I agree that 
theyre different  activities but I think theyre part of a single continuing act of disruptive 
behaviour by one small child while he was left unattended  for a short time. I think  its 
stretching it too far to say that theyre separate incidents and to treat them  as separate  
claims. So RSA should  be applying just one excess.  In order  to treat Miss G fairly RSA 
should refund £200, being  the balance of one excess taking into account the £50 already 
paid. It should  also remove any reference to the second claim from any external and internal 
databases on which the claims have been  recorded.
I also think its fair that RSA should  pay Miss G interest on the repayment from the date of 
the final cash settlement  because shes  been without the money  for a considerable period of 
time.
Ref: DRN86783552Miss Gs complaint also concerns the delay in reaching settlement of her claim.  Ive looked 
at a timeline of events.  I can see that Miss G first notified her claim on 12 October. There 
was a delay of a few days because Miss G was in arrears  with the premium. That wasnt 
RSAs fault. It made an initial payment in early  November  and the final payment on 16 
November. There was some discussion about  what suitable replacements  would be. Given 
the fact that it had to validate  the claim and request information from Miss G, I think this 
was a relatively quick turnaround. There are no grounds, in my view, for RSA to be 
required to pay compensation in respect of this.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc:
a)to treat the two incidents  as part of one claim for accidental damage  and deduct only one 
excess of £250  from the total amount payable in respect  of the claim.
b)to repay Miss G the balance of one excess being  £200 plus interest* from the date of the 
final cash settlement payment to the date of settlement. 
c)if it has recorded  two separate claims on any external or internal databases, it should 
remove one and transfer any associated claim costs to the other.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to 
Miss G, it should  tell her how much  its taken off. It should  also give Miss G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN8678355