K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy at a meeting in 2003, shortly  after a mortgage product 
transfer.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H for accident, sickness and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. For a successful disability or unemployment claim, it offered to 
pay Mr and Mrs Hs monthly mortgage  payment plus 25% - initially  a benefit of £236.25 a 
month costing £14.33  a month.  Life and critical illness cover  could  also be taken through  this 
type of policy, but Mr and Mrs H didnt take these.
Mr H was the first named on the mortgage and mortgage notes from the time say he was the 
higher earner by a little. He was employed as delivery personnel and had been there three  
years. Hes told us he was entitled  to less than six but at least three months  full sick pay and 
three months full pay for redundancy. Mrs H was employed as a care assistant, had been  
there five years and, from what shes told us, was entitled to no more than statutory benefits 
for sickness or redundancy. Mr and Mrs H have told us they also had £27,000 in savings 
they couldve used  to help pay the mortgage  if Mr H couldnt work.  
Mr and Mrs H have told us Mr H missed two weeks  work with a health issue  around  two 
years before the sale. Theyve said treatment resolved this. Theyve also told us of a health 
issue Mr H missed nine months work  with more than 15 years  before the sale.  They couldnt 
recall much  about how or whether  that issue affected his ability  to work  years later in 2003.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2006. Mr and Mrs Hs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Hs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  should have told Mr and Mrs H 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs H and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN86985432The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for 
private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN86985433The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN86985434-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Hs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs H and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Very little documentation from the sale is 
available now, but Mr and Mrs H havent said anything to make  me think it wasnt  made clear 
to them  that the PPI was optional.
Also, critical illness cover  and life cover werent  included on Mr and Mrs Hs policy,  although 
these were available.  From what I know of these  policies,  these  elements,  as well as the 
mortgage repayment cover (accident, sickness and unemployment) could all be requested  or 
turned down separately.
Mr and Mrs H and Halifax also agree the sale took place in a branch. From what  we know of 
the branch paperwork  used  by Halifax to sell policies like this when  selling mortgages,  I think 
Halifax normally made clear the PPI was optional in that situation.
Mr and Mrs H havent said anything to make me think  they were  pressured into the mortgage  
repayment cover either. Taking everything into account, I think its more  likely they knew the 
policy was optional and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs H cant  recall whether advice 
was given. But if Halifax did give advice, it had to do more. With this in mind, I think  its fair to 
proceed on the basis that Halifax  gave advice. This means it had to advise Mr and Mrs H 
with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable 
given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the PPI was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. There is no record of exactly what the adviser discussed 
in relation to the PPI. Halifaxs internal notes show answers given to questions about  Mr Hs 
employment and health, but I dont know exactly what  was said about  this. Also, theres  
nothing to suggest Halifax did enough to establish  Mr and Mrs H had a need for the cover, 
for example by asking about Mr Hs work sick pay or redundancy entitlements. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN86985435-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the PPI. Taking  into account Mr Hs redundancy and sick 
pay entitlements, its likely Mr and Mrs H wouldve  suffered a significant fall in income  if 
Mr H couldnt work  for an extended  time. The PPI benefit wouldve helped them manage 
the consequences in that situation.  Also, by helping with mortgage related costs  and so 
protecting their home, the PPI benefit wouldve helped Mr and Mrs H keep their savings 
intact or free to meet  other liabilities at what couldve been a difficult  time if Mr H were 
unemployed or too sick to work. I say this bearing  in mind the savings Mr and Mrs H had 
are savings  theyd chosen  to keep rather than put towards  reducing  the mortgage.
-Mr H was eligible for the PPI and the monthly  cost appears to have  been  affordable.
-Its likely  Mr and Mrs H couldnt  have claimed if Mr H missed work due to the health  
issue that had kept him off work more than 15 years before  the sale. But taking  into 
account all Mr and Mrs H have told us about  that, Im not persuaded Halifax  ought  to 
have thought lengthy work absences from this in future were so likely that their exclusion 
would make the cover no longer worth  having.  Mr H didnt have other health issues the 
policy wouldve excluded and couldve claimed  for work absences from unemployment or 
disability in various other  situations. Taking  everything into account,  Im not persuaded 
the policy exclusions or limitations made  the PPI unsuitable for Mr and Mrs H.
-The PPI would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 months for each claim and for 
disability would only pay if Mr H were unable  to do his or any similar job, and also unable 
to do any work  his experience, education  or training reasonably qualified  him to do. But it 
still provided valuable  cover in Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances given the loss of income  
they could suffer  if Mr H were  unable to work for an extended time, the fact the PPI 
protected the mortgage payments on their home and the potential consequences if 
Mr and Mrs H were to have become  unable  to repay loans secured against  their house.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would help protect their mortgage  related costs if 
Mr H couldnt work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate cost.  
Ive reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the PPI 
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs H all the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it.
Ref: DRN86985436Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs H about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude Halifax ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings  have  on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs H. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that whether or not Mr and Mrs H 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN86985437The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs H had some interest in taking payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Halifax advised them  there was a suitable product 
they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments if they were unable  to work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment,  they concluded they wanted that product. 
But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  they thought  
they were getting  is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs H knew  they would have to pay 
something for the PPI, it doesnt  appear Halifax told them the exact premium at the point 
they applied. That said, I dont think it likely  Mr and Mrs H wouldve taken the PPI without 
some idea of the approximate cost. If when they started paying  for it the cost had been 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the sale,  its also possible they mightve  raised 
this with Halifax or reconsidered  their decision at that time instead of continuing.  
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs H would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Halifax made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs H would get back 
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Hs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did  if 
anything, it is more likely than not the policy actually paid more in the event of a claim than 
they would  have expected  as there was an additional cash payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The PPI would exclude claims relating to health issues recurring within 12 months of the 
policy start if the issue was a chronic  or continuing issue Mr H knew of at the start.  It also 
excluded claims relating to health issues recurring  within 12 months of the policy start if 
in the 12 months  before the policy start either a medical practitioner had diagnosed or 
suggested advice  or treatment for or started investigations into the issue  or significant 
and substantive symptoms had been experienced in that time; 
The PPI excluded unemployment cover if Mr H was told within  four months of the policy  
start that his employment would end; 
The PPI contained  limitations on claims relating to back and mental  health  conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mr H be unable  to do his 
own or any similar job and be unable to do any paid work  his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The PPI protected  payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of the 
mortgage. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on cover,  when coupled with the other shortcomings  in this sale,  mightve  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking the policy. 
Ref: DRN86985438But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr H was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs H them should the insured  risks have become a reality. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these were more onerous than Mr and Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs H from taking the policy, Mr and Mrs H, in their circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it.
Mr and Mrs H probably couldnt have claimed  if Mr H missed work due to the health  issue  
hed had more  than 15 years before the sale, with which it appears hed had significant time 
off work in the past. But taking into account  how long that was before the sale, and having  
considered all Mr and Mrs H have told us about this, on balance what I have doesnt make 
me think it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H wouldve thought  at the sale that work 
absences from this issue were so likely in future that cover that excluded such absences 
would no longer be worth taking. Also I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H wouldve thought Mr H 
would miss work in future due to his more recent health issue,  as the treatment  hed had for 
that had resolved that issue. And Mr H hasnt  told us of having  had any other health issues.
On balance, and in the light of all Ive said above, what I have doesnt  persuade  me 
Mr and Mrs Hs decision to take the policy wouldve been changed had they been  told more 
about the policy exclusions. Taking  everything  into account, I think Mr and Mrs H still had 
some good  reasons to take the policy.
If Mr and Mrs H had known they could only claim for disability if Mr H were unable to do his 
own or any similar job and unable to do any paid work his experience,  education or training 
reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what  to do. And 
I accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although given  their circumstances and 
the loss of income theyd suffer if Mr H wasnt  working,  on balance I think  they would still 
have been interested in taking the cover.
Halifax may not have  told Mr and Mrs H that any claim they made would be limited to a 24 
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But Mr H was entitled to less than six months full sick pay and three months  full pay for 
redundancy. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs H wouldve  still thought  PPI that 
covered up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would benefit  them  and help them manage 
the consequences if Mr H couldnt work in the circumstances covered by the PPI. The PPI 
allowed for multiple claims to be made and could help reduce Mr and Mrs Hs outgoings and 
help keep their savings intact or free to meet other liabilities at what could be a difficult and 
uncertain time if Mr H were unemployed or too sick to work.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs H would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr H were  made  redundant, or unable to work due to accident  
Ref: DRN86985439or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs H would have 
taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have taken the PPI, I am 
satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken the PPI 
had they been given  clear, fair and not misleading information about  the policy they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they would  have been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.  
Im also aware Mr and Mrs H think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Halifax negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find Halifax had been in breach  of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
Ref: DRN869854310and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 September 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8698543