K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about BUPA Insurance Limited.  
background
Mr R holds cover with BUPA, and has done  for many years.  He needed an operation and 
was told to go ahead, but then found  that a different underlying medical condition he had 
meant the hospital  he was going to have the operation  under  wouldnt proceed. He felt that 
BUPA should have  mentioned this in its cover, and at the time of referral, and should  refund 
his premiums, as he wouldnt have continued  cover  had he known this. BUPA didnt agree 
so he complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter, but did not uphold the complaint. They  felt 
that enough cover was available  under the policy and a refund wasnt  warranted. Mr R didnt 
accept that, so the case has been referred  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, Ill explain why. 
It seems  to me that Mr Rs complaint  concerns both the information BUPA provide in general  
and the information in his particular case.  
On the general  information point we are not the regulator, and it isnt for me to specify  what 
information BUPA should put in its general  literature. I can of course comment on its 
sufficiency, but I cant dictate the wording it uses.  
On his particular  case I acknowledge Mr R may have made  different  decisions on his policy 
had he been told about the effect his condition  would  have  on cover, I dont  think  the impact 
was such that I can ask BUPA to refund his premium for two reasons. 
First there  would be many conditions that could affect whether a hospital  would  accept 
someone for treatment,  and I cant see that BUPA could reasonably be expected to go 
through all of these  at referral. Second Mr Rs policy would still have covered him for other 
issues for which a hospital would have  been prepared to treat him, and presumably most  
outpatient issues. So his policy  was providing  cover, albeit not in the specific instance of his 
claim this time. Plus it would still have been possible to have treatment in another  hospital 
with the aid of the policy. Although I do note Mr R had difficulties there,  but those problems 
werent caused by BUPA.  
With all those issues in mind I dont think Mr Rs policy became such a bad deal that a 
refund should  be made. 
Ref: DRN86077922my final decision
I make  no award against BUPA Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8607792