K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds valuation of his car when he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.  
background
After Mr Ms car was stolen, Admiral offered him what they said was his cars  market value, 
but Mr M didnt think this was enough.
The investigator who investigated Mr Ms complaint didnt  recommend that it should  be 
upheld. He thought that Admirals valuation was reasonable and in line with motor  trade 
guides. As Mr M didnt  agree his case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Mr M our approach  regarding complaints about car valuations.  
Admiral have to pay Mr M his cars market value under  his policy, which says on page 9 that 
this is: 
The cost of replacing  your car, with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and 
condition based  on market prices at the time of the loss.
However we dont decide what the market value of a car is. We merely consider whether or 
not the insurer has reached  a fair and reasonable amount having  regard  to the valuations  in 
the trade guides.
Admiral valued Mr Ms car at £4,880 based  on the trade guides.  The prices  in these guides 
are linked to likely monthly nationwide  sales figures  and we believe they give a reasonable 
and independent guide and take account  of a number of factors including  mileage, condition, 
and any extra features. 
The investigator checked the available  trade  guides for Mr Ms cars make and model and 
they showed a range of valuations. As Mr M has acknowledged, what Admiral  offered Mr M, 
was the highest of these valuations. So the investigator thought  that Admirals valuation  was 
fair. But Mr M said that wasnt enough  to buy an equivalent car and it was unfair that market 
value didnt mean like for like replacement. He also said that the trade guides were 
inadequate to assess the value of his car because it was a rare make  and model whose 
value had increased, it had very low mileage and was in very good condition.  
He felt this meant that its market value fell outside  of the normal  range and that, though  the 
guides may work for valuing the majority  of cars,  they didnt work for his car. 
The investigator noted that Mr M didnt have a specific classic car policy or and agreed value 
policy, and that his cars make and model  does appear in the trade guides. He also checked 
that Admiral had used  the cars  correct  mileage and showroom condition when using the 
guides. So I think that Admiral were  entitled to rely on the guide valuations.
Ref: DRN88899142Mr M also showed Admiral details of similar  cars to his which  were advertised  for more than 
Admiral offered him. He said he couldnt  see one advertised for Admirals amount, despite  
having looked for a replacement for months.  However I dont think that adverts prove the 
actual selling price  and the amounts sellers  advertise for cars dont properly  reflect their 
value. This is because cars usually sell for less than the advertised price. So we find the 
guides more persuasive than adverts  and websites.
Mr M also said that shortly before his car was stolen hed advertised  it for sale and had 
agreed a price with someone for about £1,000 more than what Admiral  were offering. But  
the investigator pointed out that its possible for an individual to be willing  to pay more  than 
guide price market value for a car, especially if its advertised towards a collectors market. 
But even if thats  so, that doesnt make the guide prices unreliable. Nor does it mean that 
Admiral were unfair or unreasonable to use them.  
I appreciate that Mr M is sorry to have lost his car, and he wants  to make  sure that Admiral 
pay him a fair value  for his car. But I think that Admiral have assessed its value fairly and Im 
satisfied that their settlement offer is a reasonable one, so I dont require them  to offer any 
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8889914