K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  about Royal Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) decision to decline a claim 
under his home insurance for damage to the roof of a bay window.
background
Mr M claimed on his home  insurance policy held with RSA after the roof of a bay window on 
his home  was damaged during a storm.
RSA declined his claim.  It said the damage had been caused by wear and tear, and his 
policy did not provide insurance cover for that. It said the weather conditions at the time 
simply highlighted the damage that had already been caused over a period of time by the 
gradual deterioration of the roofs materials.
Mr M complained to RSA,  saying  that a storm caused the damage and his claim should be 
paid.
In RSAs final response letter, it said it assessed Mr Ms claim to decide if a storm was 
responsible for the damage by using a formula which  asked three questions of the 
circumstances of the claim. And it had decided  that the roof materials had suffered a natural 
breakdown over time,  so Mr Ms claim was excluded  in his policy.  It didnt uphold Mr Ms 
complaint, or accept  his claim for storm damage.
Mr M complained to us. An investigator  agreed with RSA that the damage was mainly 
caused by wear and tear  a cause not covered by Mr Ms policy   and concluded that RSA 
had acted fairly in declining his claim.  He didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator, so his complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.  I will explain why. 
Our approach to a complaint about a declined claim for storm damage is to consider three 
questions. These questions are also widely used by home insurance companies  for 
assessing storm damage claims,  including RSA for Mr Ms claim. 
The three questions  are:
1)were there storm conditions on or around  the date the damage occurred?
2)is the damage consistent with storm damage?
3)is the storm the main  cause of the damage?  
We use this approach to help us decide  if RSA has been  fair and reasonable when  making 
its decision.
If the answer  to all three questions is yes, its likely that we would ask RSA to pay the claim. 
were there storm conditions  on or around  the date the damage occurred?  
Ref: DRN83813462RSA is not disputing that storm conditions may have  been prevailing around the date of     
Mr Ms loss. Ive seen the wind speed  peaked at 61 mph on that morning. Im therefore 
satisfied that the weather conditions at the time of the loss meet  the definition of a storm. 
is the damage consistent with storm damage?
There is photographic  evidence that an area of roof tiling is missing  above the bay window. I 
think this is damage consistent  with the impact storm winds  can have. 
is the storm the main cause of the damage?   
I can understand why Mr M has made a claim on his policy. A storm occurred and his roof 
was damaged. RSA considered whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.   
RSA has said that the damage to the roof of the bay window was consistent with wear  and 
tear, caused  gradually over a period  of time,  and therefore not covered by Mr Ms policy. Mr 
Ms home insurance policy says,  in the section  called  Policy  exclusions:
Wear and tear
Any loss, damage, liability  cost or expense of any kind directly  or indirectly caused  by or 
resulting from wear and tear depreciation, corrosion,  rusting,  damp, insects, vermin, fungus, 
condensation, fading, frost or anything that happens gradually
RSA said their surveyor reported that the roof tiles on the damaged  roof lie under a slurry 
render which  was breaking down and covered in moss.  There are a number of photos 
forming part of the surveyors  report.  I can see the accumulated moss and the general 
appearance of the roof. It does look to me that the appearance of the roof is accurately 
described by the surveyor. I havent understood the surveyors report  to be suggesting the 
presence of slurry render to be unusual or wrongly  applied, but that its present and has 
deteriorated over a period of time. And that this gradual deterioration has had the effect of 
damaging the roof.
Once RSA received this report,  I dont  think it was unfair for it to decline the claim. I think that 
its decision to use its formula to determine the cause of the damage  comprised of the three 
questions referred to above  and that we also use was made  fairly. And having done  so, I 
dont think its been unreasonable in considering that the main cause of the roof damage  
was wear and tear  a cause of storm damage  excluded in Mr Ms policy.
But Mr M did provide an alternative  opinion by a builder that he says show the roof damage 
was caused by the storm. And that Mr M feels the damage should be paid for by RSA.  
I have thought about the builders opinion and Ive considered RSAs surveyors  description 
of the construction of the roof and how the materials deterioration over time has caused 
damage. I have also considered the evidence of RSAs surveyors photos. The photos show 
the main roof of the house appears in good condition and undamaged by the storm. If the 
roof of the bay window had been in a similar condition, it also would have  perhaps  survived  
the storm without damage.
I dont think Mr Ms builders report is persuasive  enough to outweigh the evidence of the 
photos and the detailed  report from RSAs  surveyor on the main cause of damage.  
Ref: DRN83813463Overall, Im satisfied that RSAs conclusion that the storm merely highlighted an issue with 
the roof, rather than causing damage to it, was a fair and reasonable one based on the 
evidence. And in declining Mr Ms claim, it acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8381346