K821x#15complaint
Mr L has complained  about  retirement planning advice he was given by Clydesdale Bank 
PLC between 2009 and 2012. Hes complained that the advice wasnt  correct and the 
adviser failed to arrange his investments in the way theyd agreed.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 2 November 2020.The  reasons for my 
provisional finding that the complaint should  be upheld in part were  set out in that decision. I 
have reproduced  the relevant sections here.
The background to the complaint was set out by the adjudicator in his assessment which  
was sent to both parties. But in brief, in February  2009 Mr L was advised  to make regular 
contributions of £3,000 (net) to a flexible pension plan (FPP) with a pension  provider I will 
refer to as provider A. Mr L says he wanted  to invest the money built up in his pension  in his 
employers shares. However  the application form said the plan was to be set up with 
contributions invested in Provider As Balanced Portfolio  fund. The plan started in May 2009, 
with a total of eleven contributions made.  The last contribution was received on 12 May 
2010. Commission on the plan was payable  through a deduction  of 45% of the first twelve 
months contributions. This amounted to £20,250 in the first year.
In May 2010  Mr L received advice about consolidating three personal pensions with three  
different pension providers to another FPP with Provider A. The Fact Find noted Mr L 
wanted to transfer  the funds into a cash  fund. This was because he wanted to consider 
self investing these  funds  direct into shares. His plan was to buy shares  in his employers 
company. 
The advisers report said Mr L should  hold onto one of his personal pensions  as it was 
subject to transfer restrictions. It also said, The funds are to be invested in a cash fund until 
you feel you feel the time is right to invest.   I have provided  no advice on the suitability of the 
shares to be purchased and that there is a significant chance that the value of the shares 
can fluctuate significantly.
Applications to transfer two of the personal  pensions to a new FPP were  completed.
A transfer  value of approximately  £35,000  was received by [Provider A] in June 2010  from 
one of the personal pensions. Clydesdale Bank  received a fee of £1,412.74 (4%).   The  other 
personal pension  wasnt transferred.  It appears  it was also subject to transfer  restrictions.
In December 2010 Mr L, through his adviser, asked Provider A to transfer the funds received 
from the transfer to a SIPP.  On transfer all of the funds were to be used to buy shares in 
Mr Ls employers company. In January 2011  Mr L was told £33,954  had been  transferred  to 
the SIPP and £32,956.00 had bought the relevant shares.
Mr L met with the adviser again  in 2012. The advisers notes record  he now wanted to 
transfer his two remaining pensions (that hadnt been transferred) and which  were  no longer 
subject to transfer restrictions. The notes also recorded the intention  was to transfer  funds 
into a cash fund to allow Mr L to self invest these funds direct into shares.
On the advisers  Fact Find under the heading Next Steps the following notes were made:
Ref: DRN81335272You transferred your existing pensions  into a SIPP with [Provider A] in June 2010. At
that point due to your divorce you were unable  to transfer your [names  of the two other  
personal pensions]  - you would like to transfer these now.
A recommendation report dated 26 July 2012 recorded Mr L s objective  as:
You would like to transfer the funds held within your [ names of the two personal  pensions]  
to your existing pension [Provider  A] Personal Pension which has a self-invest  facility  and 
allows you to purchase shares of your own choice, albeit predominantly those in the 
company you are employed by  [name of company].
And the recommendation was;
The [two personal  pensions] are unsuitable  for you because they do not have a self-invest 
facility to allow you to invest  directly in shares. So I recommend you transfer the funds held 
in the above policies to your existing [Provider  A] pension which has a self-invest  option.  
[Provider A] have confirmed that in order to top up your SIPP, the transfer is initially
made into a cash fund within the Flexible Personal Pension.  You then sign a disinvest
form and then [Provider A] forward the capital onto {the administrator} who will place it into a
cash account and await your dealing instructions. 
A transfer  value from one of the pensions  of £49,052.93 was received  by Provider A in 
August 2012.  This was placed in its cash fund, with a fee of £1,962.12 deducted as payment 
to Clydesdale  Bank.
It appears there were  problems with the transfer of the other pension. Provider As notes 
record it contacting  the adviser  on 19 September 2012, 9 October  2012  and
19 October 2012 about the outstanding requirements. The notes suggest  the adviser was
going to chase Mr L; as discharge documents were outstanding.
Final contact was made by Provider  A on 8 November 2012,  saying  the original pension  
provider had closed  the transfer request as its requirements hadnt been met.
Provider A says the funds that were transferred to it remained in its cash  fund as no 
instructions were given  to invest the money  in Mr Ls employers shares.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the advice about transferring the different funds was unsuitable 
given Mr L wanted  to invest in his employers  shares  which wasnt possible with his exiting 
pension plans. He also thought the evidence suggested that it was Mr Ls responsibility to 
provide an instruction to invest in the shares  following  the transfer. Hed seen no persuasive 
evidence that Mr L had given such an instruction. And he thought Mr L ought to have been  
alerted the monies were  still in cash  on receipt of the annual statements  he received. So he 
didnt recommend that this part of Mr Ls complaint should succeed.
However the adjudicators view was that Mr L wasnt eligible to make  contributions  to the 
new FPP set up in 2009 as he didnt have any net relevant earnings from employment  in the 
UK. He thought  Clydesdale  had failed to establish Mr Ls eligibility to make contributions.  So 
the adjudicator  thought that part of the complaint should be upheld.  He recommended that 
the ineligible contributions  be refunded to Mr L with 8% simple interest per annum. And that 
Clydesdale should  pay Mr L £400  to reflect the trouble and upset that had been caused.
Ref: DRN81335273Clydesdale didnt agree.  In brief, it said the adviser  had relied on the information Mr L had 
provided as recorded in the Fact Find and there wasnt  anything to prompt him to suspect 
that information was incorrect. The Fact Find recorded that Mr L has stated Yes  to the UK 
Residency question.  And the June 2012  Fact Find recorded he had changed his residency 
18 months ago  which  would be around  2010.  It thought its advice to start the pension  in 
2009 was suitable. 
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so Ive come to largely the 
same conclusions as the adjudicator, albeit I have  different thoughts on appropriate 
compensation.
A significant amount of information has been provided by both parties. Whilst I have taken it 
all into account I have  focussed on what I consider is material in deciding the fair outcome of 
the complaint.  
Like the adjudicator,  I dont think the transfers  were unreasonable  in the particular 
circumstances. Mr L wanted ultimately to invest in his employers shares and this wasnt  
possible in the existing arrangements.  The shares presented  significant  risks, however Im 
satisfied Mr L had the capacity to accept  those risks. And the potential upside offset the 
charges incurred in transferring. 
Mr L has said that following the transfers  the firm subsequently failed to invest  the money 
from one of the pensions transferred into his employers shares. Another wasnt transferred 
at all. And he also says the contributions he started  paying into the FPP in 2009  were also 
meant to buy shares.
Clearly I cannot know exactly what was discussed and agreed with the adviser at the time.  
And I accept  that Mr L may have understood the adviser would automatically arrange for the 
shares to be bought. However, again, I agree with the adjudicator that the contemporaneous 
documentation suggests that the onus was on Mr L to instruct  for the shares  to be bought at 
an appropriate time. And I dont think Mr L has lost out from the one transfer not going  ahead 
because it would also have likely  been left in cash.  Im not therefore currently minded to 
uphold these parts of Mr Ls complaint.
The adjudicator considered that Mr L wasnt eligible to make  contributions  to the FPP when 
he started it in 2009 as he was working outside of the UK and not subject to UK income tax. 
The adjudicator noted that Mr L was paid in Euros and thought that the adviser had a 
responsibility to have properly understood Mr Ls position; in particular to ensure that Mr L 
was entitled to make contributions to the FPP.
Ive clarified the position with Mr L, and Im satisfied he wasnt a Relevant  UK Individual and 
not entitled to make  the contributions to the 2009  plan. Clydesdale has said the adviser was 
entitled to rely on the information  that Mr L had provided which was set out in the Fact Find. 
It said there was nothing that would have led him to suspect that Mr L wasnt eligible to make 
the contributions. 
Mr L has said that there are a number of inaccuracies in the Fact Find.  And I note that Mr Ls 
Private Banking Manger  (from Clydesdale)  was at the meeting with the adviser. The Fact 
Find recorded a number  of questions and answers including:
Ref: DRN81335274Do you currently have  any pension  provision for your retirement   No
Monthly salary - £7,400
Total Household Expenditure - £2,500
Total Monthly Disposable Income - £4,900
Under Liabilities  it said:
It is desirable that a greater priority  be given to the repayment/reduction of the levels of your 
debt prior to making an investment or committing to a regular contribution. You stated you do 
not have any liabilities.  Therefore, no details were  collected.
Under Existing Pension Provision it said.
Does your employer operate a pension scheme? No
You stated  that you do not have any money purchase schemes. Therefore no details were 
collected.
But then under Next Steps (Retirement  Planning)  it said:
You confirmed that you have access to a personal pension plan through your employer. 
You stated  that there are no additional  benefits or contributions from your employer and 
having considered your options you would prefer to put in place a pension  with MLC as you 
feel that it offers you more  investment options.
We discussed the option of a stakeholder pension however you confirmed that you would 
prefer to invest in the personal  pension.
         
In the Financial Plan it said
Objectives
Following our discussions we agreed your objectives are:
 You would like to contribute an amount of £3000(net) per month
 Your planned  retirement age is 60
 You would prefer to benefit from the spread of sectors and assets classes  available  from 
MLC funds  and the re-balancing of these to match your attitude to risk, as opposed to the 
limited fund choice  and one product provider offered by your employers personal pension 
scheme
The recommendation was to pay contributions into Provider As FPP and invest contributions 
into its Balanced Fund. The letter went onto say:
Prior to making the above recommendation,  we have  considered  whether or not a 
Stakeholder Pension Plan rather than a Personal Pension Plan would be more appropriate: 
the following  summary therefore provides  a comparison  between the two and summarises 
why I have recommended a Personal  Pension  Plan.
The letter went onto outline the differences between a Stakeholder Pension and a Personal 
Pension Plan and said:
Ref: DRN81335275A Personal Pension Plan is as appropriate  as a Stakeholder Pension as you wish to benefit 
from the multi-manager style of investment and the facility  for re-balancing the funds to 
match your attitude  to risk which is available from MLC  via their Personal Pension  contract.
The [Provider A] Flexible Pension Plan (FPP) allows you the option of self-investing as well 
as investing in insured funds. If you decide  to take up this option, there will be extra charges 
involved.
Once you decide to take your pension benefits,  the [Provider A] Flexible Pension Plan can 
be transferred to the Retirement Control  (RC) plan, which  allows you to take the benefits 
from an unsecured pension. I made you aware  that if you decide to move  to the RC Pension 
product, there will be additional charges involved.
As per our discussion I have  rebated  the commission received  in the first year from 50% of 
the first years premiums  to 45% and this is reflected in the Key Features Document that I 
have prepared for you.
Mr L has said that he didnt have the levels of monthly disposable income as suggested - 
£4,900. Hes provided a copy of his Clydesdale bank statement from around that time and 
this shows that month on month he was consistently  overdrawn by around £20,000. Mr Ls 
finances were quite complicated  in that he was paid in Euros which I understand went into 
an account with another  bank. And then he transferred money  to his account with 
Clydesdale  around £6,000 a month at this time. 
Apart from the overdraft  my understanding is that he still had a significant home loan when 
the fact fund was completed - albeit the documents record this was closed in March 2009.  
Mr L was also paying around £1,000 a month in maintenance  payments;  as shown on his 
credit card statements (also with Clydesdale Bank).  So it doesnt appear  the Fact Find 
saying he had no liabilities reflected the reality  of his position.  It was also recorded that Mr L 
had no employers scheme available and no other pension provision. But then the 
recommendation letter went onto explain why the FPP was a better option that the 
employers scheme. And a mortgage application  form from 2008 (which recorded  Mr Ls 
Private Banking Adviser being present at the meeting)  said Mr L had been making lump sum 
payments into his workplace pension.  
On the one hand Mr L signed an Authority to Proceed form on 31 March 2009 which said 
that he had read and understood  a number of documents including  the Fact Find. But on the 
other, there do appear to be some significant  discrepancies with the information  recorded on 
it.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr Ls Private Banker to recall all of Mr Ls particular 
circumstances. But I do think that, given the information readily available to Clydesdale, 
Mr Ls Private Banker would have  been  aware of the complexity of his circumstances and 
this ought to have been  discussed during the meeting. The fact Mr L appeared to be living 
off a large overdraft would make a commitment  to pay significant regular contributions from it 
to fund a personal  pension  questionable.  
The adviser was required to ensure that a recommendation to pay these amounts into a 
personal pension  were suitable  and I think this would necessitate a discussion about both 
funding and employment matters; Mr Ls employer and any employers pension.  In particular 
given the adviser  noted You confirmed that you have access  to a personal  pension plan 
through your employer.  You stated  that there are no additional benefits  or contributions  from 
Ref: DRN81335276your employer and having  considered your options  you would prefer  to put in place a 
pension with MLC as you feel that it offers you more investment options.
I think the adviser should have checked  the features of the employers arrangement to 
satisfy himself that a Personal Pension  was a better option. He would have known there may 
have been advantages to a workplace pension that may not be obvious  to a non-pension  
professional including identifying what the fund choices actually were  and the applicable 
charges. It may have  been  that Mr L was no longer eligible for that scheme given he had 
moved to an office  outside of the UK. But by looking into the matter he may have been 
alerted to Mr Ls residency position.
I think its more likely than not that the adviser would  have discovered where Mr L was 
working through any meaningful discussion about  the matter  and that his place of work 
wasnt in the UK. On doing so it was the advisers  responsibility to look into Mr Ls eligibility 
to make the contributions. 
Having said all that, even  if I accepted  that the adviser could take the information  in the Fact 
Find at face value and its unreasonable  to have expected him to have known the 
contributions were ineligible, Im not persuaded the recommendation  for a Personal Pension  
was suitable in any event. 
The adviser recorded that the reason a Personal  Pension was recommended over a 
Stakeholder Pension was the multi-manager style of investment and the facility  for re-
balancing the funds to match your attitude to risk which is available from MLC via their 
Personal Pension contract. 
The obvious  first option  was to explore the employers pension  scheme  in detail. However  if I 
accept that Mr L was either no longer  eligible or it didnt offer any particular advantages,  I 
think a Stakeholder  Pension would have  been suitable. It would have provided a fund choice 
aligned to Mr Ls balanced risk profile. Allowed a future transfer at little cost.  And given  the 
charging structure, the Personal Pension fund was highly unlikely to outperform a 
Stakeholder arrangement invested  at balanced risk over the short  to medium term. 
The illustration for the Personal Pension showed that 45% of the first years  contributions  
would be paid in charges.  And the selected  fund had a yearly fund management charge of 
1.95%. I accept that additional units were added  to the plan depending on its value   for 
example 0.5% (£20,000-£249,000) and 0.6%  (£250,000-£999,000). 
The illustration said that the deductions would bring investment performance down from 7% 
to 1.3%  after 5 years; 4.4% after 10 years  and 5.3% at age 60. Even taking into account  the 
0.5% rebate that would kick in fairly early given  the level of contributions  paid, the charges 
would have been a significant  drag on performance compared to a Stakeholder Pension.
I accept that as well as Mr Ls regular income he received significant bonuses. But £3,000 a 
month was still a significant  long-term  commitment  particularly as it appeared to be funded 
from a large overdraft. Given his personal and financial circumstances had been subject to 
significant changes  I think there  were  real risks that the Personal Pension wouldnt be 
funded for the long term. This is also reflected in Mr Ls previous history of making irregular 
payments to his employers pension scheme.
So taking everything into account, I dont think Mr L was eligible to make the contributions  
and this should have been  identified by the adviser. But even if I am wrong about that, I dont 
Ref: DRN81335277think the recommendation for a personal pension was suitable in the particular 
circumstances of the case.
Ive therefore  thought  about fair compensation. And this isnt straightforward in the 
circumstances.
Provider A has said its not appropriate  to refund the ineligible  contributions. This is 
consistent with what HMRC has told us  albeit it wont comment on the specifics of a case.
If Mr L had been  told he couldnt pay contributions into a pension  he may have  invested  the 
£3,000 a month into something else. In that case he would have built up a fund outside of a 
pension. He wouldnt have likely  paid such significant charges on the £3,000 per month he 
invested  around  £20,000 in the first year. But he also wouldnt have received the tax relief 
that was claimed  by Provider A and added to his fund.
An investment outside  of the pension fund may be subject to capital gains tax (CGT)  on any 
gain depending on the type of investment. Mr L may have invested part of the £3,000  per 
month in an ISA which wouldnt be subject to CGT.  The CGT  rate will depend on a number 
of factors.  Whilst 75% of the pension fund would likely be subject  to income tax at the rate 
Mr L pays in retirement - the other  25% is tax free. If Mr L was a basic  rate taxpayer in 
retirement that would  equate to a 15% tax rate overall.
Its not possible to say exactly what type of investment Mr L would have  invested  into. I 
realise Mr L has said the idea behind the pension wanted to invest  in his employers shares.  
However, as I have said above,  theres  no record of that for the 2009  advice. 
In the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to use the performance of the fund Mr L 
actually invested  into for comparative purposes. That is, to derive a value  that his 11 monthly 
contributions would have grown to had it been  invested  but not in a pension.  This will 
assume the full £3,000 a month would have been  invested (rather than 55% of the £3,750). I 
accept that there would have been  some  charges  on the £3,000 a month. But I think  the 
charges associated with the fund itself are reasonable to reflect  charges on an alternative 
position. I intend to assume the tax position is broadly neutral given the amount of unknowns  
and assumptions required  in these particular circumstances.  
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Ls complaint in part.
I intend to order  that Clydesdale  Bank Plc calculates  and pays  compensation to Mr L on the 
following basis:
1.Calculate what £3,000  a month  would  have grown to as at the date of a final decision 
if it had performed in line with the fund Mr L actually invested  into - Provider As 
Balanced Portfolio fund.
2.Compare this with the actual transfer value held with Provider A (for the policy  
regular premiums started in 2009).
If 1 is greater than 2 then Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay the difference direct to Mr L. 
In addition, Clydesdale Bank Plc should  pay Mr L £400 to reflect the trouble and upset
Ref: DRN81335278caused by the matter.  
I asked Mr L and Clydesdale Bank  to let me have  any further evidence or arguments that 
they wanted me to consider before I made  my final decision.
Clydesdale Bank  said, in summary:
Regarding suitability, Id referred  to an undocumented home loan and to the pension 
contribution history in the context that a Stakeholder Pension might have been  better. 
The (joint) mortgage mentioned was paid off with the last payment made  on              
1 February 2009  just before the Fact Find completed on 5 February 2009. This was 
presumably known then, and it may have been discounted from the discussions 
because of it.
The employer pension question wrongly stated 'no' but was followed by a summary 
of a discussion about the employer  scheme  so there was no doubt  the employer's 
scheme was considered.
The final flexible pension plan contribution was made  on 12 May 2010. A new Fact 
Find was completed on 4 May 2010  and new recommendations  on 26 May 2010 
which included:
'I have  recommended  that you top-up your [Pension Provider  A] policy  because  this will 
allow direct investment into equities  when you decide the time is right, allows  transfers 
payments to be received from your existing providers and it is a competitively charges  
contract.
Your existing pensions,  except the [Pension Provider A] PPP,  will not allow  you invest  
directly into shares. The funds are to be invested  in a cash  fund until you feel you feel the 
time is right to invest.'
At the point where contributions into the original  FPP fund ended, the intention to 
invest directly  into his employer's shares  had been  formed  and further 
recommendations had just been  made with substantial fresh contributions  coming 
from elsewhere, with some consideration of charges.  A Stakeholder  would not have 
been suitable from this point (at the latest). Stakeholder had been discussed in 2009 
and according  to the Fact Find rejected,  with brief mention of the FPP's self-invest 
option. The [Pension Provider A] FPP was suitable from this point if not earlier.
Turning to eligibility, Mr L was paid in Euros but his income went  to an external 
account with GBP transfers  made  to his Clydesdale current account, and his change 
of residency involved no change of employer  or occupation. These  points would have 
indicated no change  rather than alert the bank  to the change in the status of an 
existing customer.
Mr L didnt provide any further evidence for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision that Mr Ls complaint should be upheld in part.
Ref: DRN81335279I have carefully considered the points made by Clydesdale  in response to my provisional 
decision. I accept  the loan may have been discounted as it was paid off in February 2009  
(as opposed to March  2009, as I had said in my decision). I also acknowledged  that although  
Mr L was paid in Euros this was paid into an external account and money transferred to his 
Clydesdale Bank  account in British  Pounds. 
However for the reasons  I outlined in my provisional  decision, my view remains  that, given 
the particular circumstances,  the adviser ought to have been  having a detailed  conversation  
about Mr Ls financial position and the pension options he had with his employer given he 
was aware of it. 
And I think its more likely than not that the adviser  would have discovered  where  Mr L was 
working through any meaningful discussion about  the matter,  and that his place of work 
wasnt in the UK. On doing so it was the advisers  responsibility to look into Mr Ls eligibility 
to make the pension contributions.  
But as I also explained  in my provisional  decision, even if I accepted  the adviser wouldnt 
reasonably be expected  to have known the contributions were  ineligible, Im not persuaded 
the recommendation for the FPP was suitable  in any event, for the reasons I set out. The 
FPP was highly unlikely  to outperform  a Stakeholder arrangement invested at balanced risk 
given the charges and Mr Ls circumstances. 
When the advice  was given in May 2010 Mr L could have retained the Stakeholder Pension 
if that had been arranged  at outset, and started a new FPP to buy his employers shares. 
Taking everything into account,  I still think the adviser should have identified that Mr L wasnt 
eligible to make contributions.  But even if I am wrong about that, I dont think the 
recommendation for the FPP was suitable  in the particular circumstances of the case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint in part.
I order Clydesdale Bank Plc to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr L on the following 
basis:
1.Calculate what £3,000  a month  would  have grown to as at the date of a final decision 
if it had performed in line with the fund Mr L actually invested  into - Provider As 
Balanced Portfolio fund.
2.Compare this with the actual transfer value held with Provider A (for the policy  
regular premiums started in 2009).
If 1 is greater than 2 then Clydesdale Bank Plc should pay the difference direct to Mr L. 
In addition, Clydesdale Bank Plc should  pay Mr L £400 to reflect the trouble and upset
caused by the matter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Ref: DRN813352710David Ashley
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN8133527