K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  his income protection policy.
background
Mr G took out an income protection policy in 1993. It was sold by Lloyds around the same 
time that he took out a loan with the bank,  and was cancelled at Mr Gs request in 1995.  
Following the attention  surrounding payment protection  insurance (PPI), Mr G approached 
Lloyds and said that he thought it had mis-sold him PPI. But Lloyds looked at what it had 
sold Mr G, and advised that the product  he was referring to was actually an income  
protection policy.
Mr G said that Lloyds  had pressured him into taking out the income protection policy, by 
telling him it was a requirement of his loan.  He said that the policy had never been explained 
to him and hed never made  a claim on it. Mr G explained that hed written to the bank once 
his loan had been repaid and had asked  for the policy to be cancelled.  And, the banks 
acceptance of his letter meant  that it had acknowledged the income protection  was a 
condition of the loan itd given him.  
Lloyds looked  into Mr Gs concerns but didnt think that it had mis-sold the policy. So, 
unhappy with the banks  response, Mr G approached this service.  
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened but because the sale of Mr Gs 
income protection policy had taken place such a long time ago, information relating  to it was 
very limited. She was provided with:
A signed application form dated  1 July 1993.  Amongst other things it reported Mr Gs 
employment status and role, his yearly income,  and how long hed have been entitled 
to sick pay from his employer. 
A policy illustration dated 1 July 1993 which showed that Mr G could apply for a 
maximum benefit of £354 per month  (paid  after a six month deferred period). The 
policy would cost £4.38 a month and would run until his 55th birthday. 
A letter from Mr G to Lloyds dated 26 July 1993 which said Mr G had discovered his 
employer would  provide him with a shorter sick pay period than hed initially thought 
and had asked  the bank  to reduce the deferred  period of the policy  to reflect  that.
A second illustration  dated 28 July 1993  which reflected the change to the deferred 
period and showed an increased monthly  cost of £5.14.
A policy schedule  with a commencement date of 6 August 1993 which showed a 
monthly benefit of £354, a deferred period  of three  months and a monthly premium of 
£5.14. 
Based on the available evidence, our investigator  didnt  think that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
policy. She said that the evidence suggested  that the bank had made  recommendations that 
were suitable for Mr G. And she couldnt see that it had pressured him into taking out the 
policy. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint  be upheld, but Mr G disagreed.
He reiterated his concerns about  why the policy had been mis-sold. So the complaint has 
now been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN81761082my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As previously noted, documentary evidence relating to the sale of Mr Gs income protection  
policy is limited.  Lloyds  no longer hold a copy of the cancellation letter Mr G says he sent in 
1995. And although I appreciate that Mr G is frustrated  by that and thinks Lloyds omitted it 
intentionally so as not to incriminate itself, given the amount of time thats passed since the 
events in this complaint  took place I dont  think its unreasonable for documents  relating to it 
to now be scarce.
Mr G has said that letter  set out his understanding of the policy to the bank (that it had been 
sold as a condition  of his loan). And thinks that by accepting the letter  and cancelling  his 
policy as requested, Lloyds had acknowledged  the policy was sold as part of the loan. But I 
dont think itd be fair of me to conclude that Lloyds actions following receipt of that letter 
could reasonably be considered as such an acknowledgment. As far as Im aware,  Mr G was 
entitled to cancel his policy and he did so  the bank  simply actioned that request.
Unfortunately for Mr G, as our investigator  has already explained, the evidence  that is 
available from the time of the sale doesnt support  his overall  position.  The policy schedule 
shows that his income protection commenced after his loan was reportedly  taken  out, which 
doesnt corroborate it being a condition of the loan. It shows  it was due to run until his 55th 
birthday, long after I suspect his loan was due to be repaid. And, it shows  that the deferred 
period was in line with the information that Mr G had given Lloyds himself. There isnt any 
evidence of pressure.  And I havent  seen anything to corroborate the income protection  
being a condition of the loan. Thats not to say that Mr G wasnt told it was a condition  of the 
loan  just theres  not enough evidence to persuade me that he was. 
I understand that Mr G didnt claim on his policy, but the nature of insurance  means  theres 
always a chance  that an individual might  not need to use it. Income protection is a long term 
product designed  to provide cover  in the event  of a lost income.  Mr G says he was living with 
his parents at the time of taking out the policy and feels  that he couldve relied  on family and 
savings in the event of being unemployed. But, as our investigator also explained, 
circumstances can change and it might not have  always been possible for Mr G to rely on 
others in the unfortunate event of losing an income. Having considered all the available  
evidence and arguments in the circumstances of this case, Im of the opinion that policy 
Lloyds sold was suitable for Mr G at the time. 
I know my findings are likely to come as a disappointment to Mr G. But on balance Im not 
persuaded that his income protection  policy  was mis-sold. I wont be asking Lloyds to do 
anything. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Jade Alexander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN81761083
Ref: DRN8176108