K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that issues with TSB Bank plcs IT system made it difficult  for 
them to obtain  details and reassurance about  fraudulent activity  that had taken place on their 
account, and left them without access to funds  for over a week.
background
In late April 2018, TSB experienced issues with its IT system. On 30 April Mr S had a 
telephone conversation with someone  claiming to be a TSB representative. On 1 May Mr 
and Mrs S discovered a significant sum of money had been withdrawn from their accounts 
without their consent. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted TSBs fraud  department, but feel that they werent given adequate 
advice or support. I understand that Mr and Mrs Ss funds were returned  on 9 May, but in the 
interim a number of their direct debits and standing orders failed to process, including  their 
mortgage payment.  
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that they suffered considerable  stress from the point  they realised 
the money was missing,  and that the customer service TSB provided during this time was 
extremely poor. They have told us they repeatedly attempted  to call TSB, but faced lengthy 
periods on hold, and when they did get through  they were  not given  enough information. 
They say they suffered  anxiety and insomnia due to TSBs poor communication and failure 
to update them about what  was happening.
Mr and Mrs S had no access to their funds for eight days, and they have told us they had to 
rely on financial support  from family members during this time. They have  also described 
hosting a social event at their home  during this period, and have said that the stress arising 
from the issues described above was such that their enjoyment was ruined, and it was hard 
to remain composed in front of their guests.
Mr and Mrs S brought their complaint to this service  and our investigator  recommended  TSB 
pay Mr and Mrs £300 to reflect the trouble and upset caused  by the issues theyd 
experienced in relation to this complaint.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed  as they feel that they are 
due more compensation. They have  requested  an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator.
Firstly, Ive thought about any financial loss that Mr and Mrs S may have incurred as a result 
of the issues described above. I understand that no additional charges have been applied  for 
the late payment  of bills caused by the issues described above. Mr and Mrs S have  also 
confirmed that they were  not charged  for the many phone calls they made to TSB, and that 
the cost of travelling  to their branch was negligible. So Im not making any award  for financial  
loss in this case.
However, I can certainly appreciate that Mr and Mrs S have  experienced worry and 
inconvenience as a result  of all the issues theyve had to deal with. And the hours they have 
Ref: DRN80480802spent attempting  to contact TSB have only added to their stress and frustration. So I agree 
that Mr and Mrs S are entitled to some additional compensation regarding  this.
Mr and Mrs S think the figure  of £300 proposed by our investigator isnt high enough  to 
compensate them for everything theyve experienced. I understand Mr and Mrs Ss strength 
of feeling on the matter,  but I should explain  that its not within  this services remit to sanction  
or punish businesses,  but simply to put things right for individual consumers.
Ive thought about all the problems that Mr and Mrs S have experienced in relation to this 
complaint. I also acknowledge that some  time passed before Mr and Mrs Ss funds were  
returned to them, and so they missed out on interest  on this sum during that time.  However, 
given the short time period, any interest  would be nominal, so Im not making a separate  
award for this. Instead, Ive taken  it into account  when determining  the compensation award.
Overall, having reviewed all the information  relating to this case, I think that £300  is an 
appropriate figure to compensate Mr and Mrs S for the trouble and upset resulting from 
TSBs failings in this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If TSB Bank plc has not already  done so, it 
should pay Mr and Mrs S £300  for the trouble and upset theyve experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2019.
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8048080