K820x#14complaint
Ms Y has complained about  the administration of her whole of life policy  by The Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society  Limited  (Royal  London). She has also complained the 
policy was mis-sold and that a claim she made in 2012 was wrongly declined.
background
Ms Y took out a whole of life policy in November 1996 following advice  from an independent 
financial adviser. The policy included critical  illness  cover and disability cover as well as 
waiver of premium benefit.  The sum assured was £58,000 and the policy  looks  to have also 
been indexed  linked.
In 2012 Ms Y tried to claim  on the policy because she became unable to work. However due 
to the nature  of her medical conditions Royal London the business declined  the claim 
because it felt the policy excluded such conditions and Ms Y would have known about this 
when she initially took out the policy.
When Ms Y brought her recent complaint to Royal London it explained that it didnt sell the 
policy and so couldnt look into the advice  Ms Y was given at the time of the sale. It also felt 
the decision to decline Ms Ys claim in 2012 was justified and in line with its terms and 
conditions. It did, however, agree that having reviewed the enclosures sent with its letters in 
March and June  2012 the quality of them was poor. It also accepted  that it didnt send Ms Y 
a copy of the policy application  following receipt of her letter  of the same  year.  So it offered 
Ms Y £75 in recognition  of this.
Unhappy with this Ms Y brought  her complaint to this Service.
The complaint was investigated by one of our adjudicators who felt it couldnt  be upheld. He 
was satisfied the policy contained  an exclusion which  meant Ms Ys claim in 2012  could only 
be declined. He was also satisfied with the amount  offered  to Ms Y in relation to the poor 
paperwork sent to her in 2012.
Ms Y didnt agree with the assessment. She didnt  think it reflected the entirety of her 
situation. She also disagreed with the applicable definitions in the policy  document  in relation 
to occupational disability which she believes would have made a difference  to her claim.
The adjudicator considered Ms Ys response to his assessment but wasnt  persuaded to 
change the outcome he had reached. So as no agreement could be reached  the complaint 
has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Firstly, as the policy was sold to Ms Y by an independent financial adviser no complaint 
around the suitability  of the advice or what may or may not have been explained to Ms Y 
regarding the policy terms and conditions or medical condition definitions  can be considered  
against Royal London. For this Ms Y would have  to approach the business  that sold her the 
policy.
Ref: DRN87164492All I can consider  in this decision is whether Royal London has administered  the policy  in line 
with its terms  and conditions.
With regards to the declined claim in 2012, while I appreciate what Ms Y has said,  I think  the 
exclusion for her particular medical condition was made clear on the paperwork she was 
given at the time of the sale. The acceptance letter clearly states the exclusion  and Ms Y 
had signed this page so I can only conclude she saw the exclusion and accepted it by taking 
out the policy.
I therefore cant conclude  that Royal London has acted  outside of its terms and conditions  
when it made its decision  about her claim in 2012. I appreciate  what Ms Y has said about 
certain definitions  but I think  this was something  that was the responsibility of the selling  
adviser rather than that of the policy provider, Royal London.
With regards to the administration issues in relation to the paperwork  Ms Y was sent in 2012 
and it being confusing and sometime inaccurate, while I think  this is poor service from Royal  
London I think the offer it has made  sufficiently  covers this.
Overall, therefore, while I appreciate Ms Y feels strongly about this issue,  the scope of this 
decision is limited because Royal London didnt advise on the sale of the policy.  And in 
regards to the only complaint points that can be associated  with Royal London,  I think  it has 
sufficiently recognised the errors  made so I dont think it needs to anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ayshea Khan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8716449