K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the way in which Shop Direct Finance Company Limited handled  a 
dispute over damaged items. 
background 
Mrs W bought three appliances  under a credit  arrangement. When they were delivered,  she 
found that the cooker and fridge were scratched. So she contacted Shop Direct who offered 
for the items  to be collected. Mrs W said shed be happy to accept the items, if she was 
given a discount. 
Shop Direct said it would consider this request but a manager  would  need  to approve it. 
Mrs W made it clear  that shed need to know either  way by the following morning, as shed  
booked an appointment for the appliances  to be connected in the afternoon. 
Mrs W didnt hear back. Shop Direct  acknowledges it failed to log the request for a discount 
and the call back. And as Mrs W had the appliances connected, they now cant  be returned.  
To resolve  things, Shop Direct offered a 10% discount to the damaged  appliances, which  
was later increased to 20%. Mrs W didnt accept the offer,  saying shed had to repeatedly 
call Shop Direct and received poor service overall. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He asked Shop Direct to increase its offer to 30% 
discount to both appliances  and to pay £30 compensation. 
Shop Direct agreed. But Mrs W doesnt feel this offer adequately compensates  her for the 
amount of calls shes had to make  and the length  of time this has been ongoing. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that the cooker and fridge arrived scratched. And although it hasnt been 
determined how or when this damage  occurred, Shop Direct accepted  liability  for it. So the 
only issue I need to decide is what Shop Direct should do to put things  right. 
From the information we have, the damage is limited to cosmetic scratches which  havent  
affected the performance of the appliances. And it seems that since  they were delivered  in 
March 2018, Mrs W has been  able to use them fully with no further problems reported. I 
need to take this into account when considering whether Shop Directs offer is fair. 
I also must bear in mind that Mrs W was given the option to return  the appliances. I think the 
fact Mrs W had the appliances connected shows that she was ultimately happy to accept 
them. If the amount  of the discount  was so important for her decision, I think she would have 
waited to see what this was going  to be before deciding  to accept the appliances.  
Ref: DRN80753732I appreciate that Shop  Direct didnt call her back when it said it would and that she had 
booked to have  the appliances installed.  But she did have a choice and could have 
rearranged the appointment  until she knew what discount would be given and therefore 
whether she would accept the goods.
Taking all of this into account,  I think a 30% discount is reasonable. This represents  a fair 
deduction to the price  given that the appliances  work and arent affected by the scratches.  
Furthermore, I think the offer of £30 compensation acknowledges the trouble and upset 
Mrs W experienced by having to contact Shop Direct multiple times. Taken together,  these 
amounts mean Mrs W would receive  around 37% of the price she paid for the items. Looking  
at all the circumstances I think  thats  a fair way to resolve her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited to 
provide a 30% discount to both appliances;  and 
pay compensation of £30 to reflect the distress  and inconvenience caused to Mrs W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8075373