K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the unsatisfactory customer service provided  by Provident Personal
Credit Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL), in relation to a loan application.
background
Mr W applied  to SL for a loan for £150  on 7 May 2018. When  he received an error  message
about the application, he phoned SL. SL told him that his application had been rejected and
that he should wait 30 days before reapplying. Mr W also updated his email address with SL
during that call.
On 22 May 2018, Mr W received a text message from SL to tell him that his loan repayment
was due. As Mr W wasnt aware he had a loan, he phoned SL about  the text. SL told him
that there  were two loan applications on the account  and that one was approved and one
was declined. Mr W said that he didnt  know about  the two applications  and he hadnt
received a loan agreement. He raised a complaint about SLs customer service. SL then
sent a copy of the loan agreement to Mr W.
SLs final response letter  rejected Mr Ws complaint. It said the writer had listened to the call
on 7 May 2018  and that Mr W was told that the loan had been  rejected. SL said that Mr W
wasnt told during  that call that the loan application he had done a few minutes  prior to that
was accepted. SL said that Mr W didnt tell its operator that he had made  two applications.
SL said that the first application Mr W had made was made on 7 May 2018 at 12:58 and was
accepted. The second application was made  on 7 May 2018  at 13:04 and was declined.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator noted that Mr W didnt receive any correspondence from SL about  the loan
that was approved. And although she had asked SL to send her evidence to show  what
information it had provided to Mr W at the time the loan was approved, nothing had been
received. The adjudicator  also asked  Mr W to tell her why he didnt return the money
knowing that SL had already told him the loan was rejected. He said he didnt notice the
extra money in his account  as he wasnt expecting it. He didnt realise it was there until he
received SLs repayment text on 22 May 2018.  The adjudicator said that this was plausible.
And without  evidence to show that SL had sent Mr W documentation about  the approved
loan, she concluded  that the complaint  should succeed. She recommended that SL should:
- remove  the interest and charges  from the loan;
- remove  any negative  information recorded on Mr Ws credit file about  the loan; and
- allow Mr W to repay the capital of £150 that he borrowed.
SL responded to say that it would agree to the adjudicators recommendations provided
Mr W repaid £150 to it within a month.
Mr W was unhappy with the repayment time limit. He said that he would repay £50 a month
from 30 November 2018 provided the adverse credit file entries were first removed.
SL said that it would accept the monthly repayments  but didnt agree to first remove the
adverse credit file entries because of the outstanding loan balance.
The adjudicator said that SLs offer wasnt unreasonable.
Ref: DRN83667462Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to SL on 19 February 2019. I summarise  my findings:
I noted that SL had said that Mr W had made two loan applications and that one of them was
approved. But Id noted from SLs contact records and the note of the call between  Mr W and
SL on 7 May 2018  that Mr W had phoned  to check the progress of his loan application
because hed received an error message. I didnt think it was likely that he would have done 
that if hed been aware  that an earlier loan application had been successful.
Id also noted  that Mr W hadnt  received a loan agreement at that time. As SL didnt send 
this service evidence  of the approved  loan in response to the adjudicators request, I couldnt 
safely conclude that this was sent to Mr Ws correct address at the time of the loan.
But SL had said that a loan had been  approved  on 7 May 2018,  and it appeared that £150 
was sent to Mr Ws account around that date. Id noted that Mr W had said that he didnt 
notice the extra money in his account until hed received  the repayment text on 
22 May 2018. I thought this was plausible.
But it was clear to me that Mr W had had use of the £150 loan amount since early May 2018,  
and that this amount should  be repaid to SL. I understood that it might be difficult  for Mr W to 
repay this amount in one lump sum.  But I could see that he had offered to repay it by 
monthly payments  of £50. I said that if Mr W accepted my final decision I thought that it 
would be reasonable for the monthly payments to begin to be paid within a month of his 
acceptance.
I noted that Mr W was unwilling to make the monthly repayments until the adverse credit  
entries were  removed from his credit  file. I could appreciate  that Mr W wasnt  aware of the 
loan and the need to repay it for some time. I could also appreciate that Mr W wanted  his 
complaint to be resolved. So I thought it likely  that any adverse entries  recorded  by SL at the 
credit reference agencies wouldnt have been recorded at the correct time. I said that the 
credit file should be an accurate reflection of Mr Ws payment record. But as Mr W wasnt  
aware for some time that he should be repaying  the loan, I thought the credit file required 
correction to remove the adverse entries  currently recorded.
But I also thought  that if the revised repayment arrangement (that is the repayment
arrangement which  would  start one month  after acceptance of my final decision, if accepted)  
wasnt adhered  to by Mr W, that SL could report to the credit reference agencies  about any 
late or missed payments under the new arrangement.
Id noted that SL had otherwise agreed that the interest and charges applied  to the loan 
should be removed.  I thought this was reasonable compensation for SLs unsatisfactory 
customer service.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr W or SL my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint. I intended to order SL to:
1. Remove the interest and charges applied to the loan;
Ref: DRN836674632. Request the removal  of the adverse entries from Mr Ws credit file within  14 days
    of Mr Ws acceptance of my final decision;  and
3. Enable Mr W to repay the amount of £150  by monthly payments of £50 from one
    month after Mr Ws acceptance of my final decision. But if this revised repayment
    arrangement isnt adhered to by Mr W, SL can report to the credit  reference
    agencies  about any late or missed payments under the new arrangement.
SL responded to say that it agreed to my provisional  decision. Mr W said that he was happy  
with the outcome and had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr W and SL have  accepted my provisional  decision  and have given me nothing  further  
to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. It follows that I uphold this complaint and require SL to take the actions  set out 
below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans,  to:
1. Remove the interest and charges applied to the loan;
2. Request the removal  of the adverse entries from Mr Ws credit file within  14 days
    of Mr Ws acceptance of my final decision;  and
3. Enable Mr W to repay the amount of £150  by monthly payments of £50 from one
    month after Mr Ws acceptance of my final decision. But if this revised repayment
    arrangement isnt adhered to by Mr W, SL can report to the credit  reference
    agencies  about any late or missed payments under the new arrangement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8366746