K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that errors by Pendragon  Finance  and Insurance  Services  Limited  meant 
she was unable to claim on her Guaranteed Asset Protection (GAP) insurance policy when 
her car was written-off.
background
In October  2015 Miss W bought a used car (Car 1) from an Evans  Halshaw dealer, which is 
a trading style of Pendragon. The car cost a total of £6,699.98, which included £1,111.98 of 
extras, including the dealers service plan and a GAP insurance  policy. This policy was 
provided by an insurer  Ill call M, and for five years would protect Miss W for the difference  
between any claim she made on her motor insurance policy,  and the cost of the car, up to 
the policy ceiling of £7,000. Miss W paid a deposit of £350  (£200 via her credit card and 
£150 part exchange) and the balance of £6,349.98 was funded by a fixed sum loan from a 
lender arranged through Pendragon. According  to the invoice for Car 1, the cost of the GAP  
policy was £299.
Miss W collected  Car 1 on Friday  9 October 2015,  but when driving to work on the following 
Monday it developed a serious  fault. As shed only had it three  days  Miss W worried  there  
might be other problems the dealers check had missed. As cancelling the sale wasnt now 
possible as the garage had scrapped  or sold the car shed traded in, she wanted Car 1 
replaced not repaired. The dealer gave Miss W a courtesy car (which  she says also gave her 
trouble), and said theyd  try and find a replacement  as close as possible to the original.  
As the dealer hadnt found her a car after three weeks, Miss W researched similar cars on its 
website. She found a suitable replacement (Car 2) at a branch in Scotland,  although it was a 
year newer with considerably lower mileage. The car was transferred to the dealer where 
she purchased Car 1 so Miss W could inspect it before taking it home. Car 2 was invoiced to 
Miss W at £6,549.98, with the additional £200 being  waived. Miss W took delivery of Car 2 
later in October, believing the cars had effectively  been swapped. 
Three years  later in September 2018,  Miss W was involved in an accident in Car 2, and 
made a claim on her motor insurance  policy which deemed the vehicle a total loss. The 
insurer paid out £3,500.  So Miss W contacted M to make a claim on her GAP policy for the 
difference between  the insurers settlement, and the cost of the car.
Miss W was shocked to discover that although  Pendragon was fully aware  she no longer 
had Car 1, the GAP policy hadnt  been  transferred to Car 2. Pendragon says the policy  had 
been cancelled,  and the premium paid towards  Car 2 which  was more expensive  than Car 1. 
If Miss W had wanted a GAP policy for Car 2 shed have needed to pay more money. 
Pendragon couldnt show this had been  discussed but said it would have been, and Miss W 
probably hadnt wanted to pay the extra.  
Miss W says her understanding  was she had the same package  including  GAP  insurance 
with Car 2 as Car 1 - only the car was different. In support of this she said the dealers 
salesman, who has since  left the company,  agreed that any increase in cost would be 
waived in view of the stressful experience shed had with Car 1 and the courtesy car. 
Unhappy with Pendragons response, she brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and felt it should  be upheld.  He thought 
Pendragon should pay Miss W the difference between the invoice price of Car 2, less the 
Ref: DRN80568322amount received from her insurer. He said that this would effectively put Miss W in the 
position as if she had a GAP insurance policy for Car 2. Plus he thought the business  should 
pay £100 to reflect the inconvenience shed experienced.
Pendragon didnt agree  as it felt it was Miss Ws responsibility to ensure shed got the 
package she wanted. As Car 2 was more  expensive she hadnt paid enough to cover the 
GAP policy  premium for this car. And as theres  no record  to prove the salesman agreed to 
do what Miss W stated,  Pendragon said it would be unfair for them to reimburse Miss W.
So the complaint has come  to me to issue a decision. 
my findings
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it for 
broadly the same reasons  as the investigator. Ill explain why below. 
I can see from the invoice  Miss W paid a number  of charges on top of the £5,588 cost of 
Car 1:
Paint and Fabric protection - £165.83
Vehicle admin  fee - £82.49 (which I suspect  was a compulsory charge rather than an 
optional extra)
Fuel £16.67
24 month Mechanical and Breakdown guarantee  £412.49
Asset protection (up to £7,000) £299
This suggests to me the sales person  discussed  the various additional products she could 
purchase, and the benefits  of each (probably with the exception of the admin fee and fuel).  
So the sale of the GAP  insurance was an advised  sale by the Evans Halshaw agent, which 
means they had to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy  was suitable for Miss W 
and to provide  clear  and not misleading  information about the product. The paperwork 
shows the agent recommended GAP insurance,  but not tyre/alloy wheel damage cover, 
warranty/guarantee (due to the number  of miles shed be driving),  or minor damage cover.  
Without the extras Miss W wouldnt have needed to borrow so much  to purchase 
Car 1. 
Miss W provided  copies of email exchanges with the garage which showed shed intended to 
proceed with the GAP  policy. Pendragon  says Miss W was simply given  a quote and the 
key facts document  for the GAP policy. But Miss W also provided the policy document 
which shows the GAP  policy  start date of 8 October 2015, so it was in place when Car 1 
failed. 
Theres no dispute Car 1 suffered what Pendragon describes as catastrophic engine  
failure. So I completely  understand why Miss W wanted a replacement, and didnt want  to 
risk driving Car 1 again, even  if a repair was possible.
Pendragon has said that as far as possible Miss W should be put back in the position  she 
should have been in but for the engine failure.  And I agree with that. But it seems it wasnt 
possible to source an exact  replacement for the car Miss W originally chose. So without the 
Ref: DRN80568323assistance of the garage, and a delay of three weeks, Miss W found one herself, basing her 
search on the amount of money she thought she had to spend. Car 2 was the same make  
and model, and although it was a year newer with lower mileage, I dont think Miss W chose 
it in order to gain an advantage. I think it was probably the only one available which fitted the 
bill. If thered been a suitable replacement nearer the cost of Car 1 I think  its likely the 
garage would have offered it at the time.
Car 2 without any extras, cost £6,549.98, whereas Car 1 was £5,588.The cost of Car 1 was 
increased to £6,699.98 after the garage had up-sold a number  of extras.  If GAP  insurance 
was recommended with Car 1, I see no reason that recommendation  wouldnt also apply to 
Car 2, which  was effectively a straight  swap. 
Pendragon says the salesman would have  explained to Miss W that shed have needed to 
pay more to get the same package. But as she didnt want to, or couldnt afford to, Miss W 
knew Pendragon  had cancelled the policy  and used the money  to put towards  the new car. 
But its been  unable  to provide any evidence to support this, and Miss W denies this 
conversation took place.  Miss W received  no notification from M the policy had been 
cancelled. Pendragon says its not Ms practice to do that. But without evidence  to show  
shed been told the policy was cancelled,  I cant see Miss W had any reason to know the 
policy shed paid for wasnt in place. 
Miss W says she understood  any difference  in the value of the cars would  be absorbed by 
the garage in view of the poor experience shed had. And Im persuaded by Miss Ws 
testimony, which has been detailed and consistent.  While I cant  be sure,  and there are no 
records, I think on balance if Miss W had been  told she needed  to pay another £299 to keep 
the GAP policy  shed probably have challenged this at the time. If Pendragon had refused to 
cover it as a gesture  of goodwill I think shes likely to have complained, and Id expect there  
to be a record of this. Or shed have paid it herself,  perhaps using her credit card if the loan 
couldnt be increased, given it was clear  she wanted  to be protected  by the policy.
Miss W has also provided some documentary evidence to support her version  of events, 
including email exchanges and the GAP policy document.  Pendragon points out the GAP 
policy is described as non-transferrable but Miss W said she took that to mean it was hers 
alone, and couldnt be transferred to someone  else. So for example if she sold the car the 
policy wouldnt go to the new owner.  While I dont think thats what  is meant by non-
transferrable, it seems a reasonable interpretation  for Miss W to have made  given the 
context Ive outlined  above. And theres  no evidence  she was told anything different by 
Pendragon. 
The GAP  policy covers  36 months from 8 October 2015, with an additional 24 months for a 
vehicle purchased with finance. So on the face of it, Miss W had reason to believe she had 
cover until at least 7 October 2018 and most likely  until 7 October 2020 as she had used 
finance. Her claim for Car 2 took place in September 2018 which  is comfortably within either 
time frame. When she realised there would be a shortfall between the settlement figure from 
her insurer  and the value of the car she made  a claim on the policy. I dont think she would 
have done that if she already knew it had been cancelled.  
So although  the original policy for Car 1 may have been cancelled and not replaced with a 
policy for Car 2, Im persuaded Miss W reasonably believed  she had GAP cover  and had 
taken decisions based on that. So because I think if Pendragon had made it clear Miss W no 
longer had a GAP  policy in place its likely she would have bought another one. I think  it 
Ref: DRN80568324would be fair and reasonable for Pendragon  to step into the shoes of M and settle Miss Ws 
claim.
The policy terms say that in the event  the vehicle is declared a total loss within  36 (or 60) 
months of the start date,  it will pay the greater of two calculations.  Either (a) the difference 
between the net invoice  price and the insurer  offer. Or (b) the difference  between the early 
settlement figure on the finance  agreement  and the insurer offer.  Miss W has provided  the 
early settlement figure  for the finance  which was £2,314.03. So as this figure  is lower  than 
the net invoice price, its the one Im using on which to base the redress.
And so I think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this particular complaint is for Pendragon 
to pay Ms W £3,049.98, which is based on the original invoice cost of Car 2 (£6,549.98),  less 
the amount her insurer has settled (£3,500).  
To this Pendragon  should add 8% simple interest per year from 24 September  2018 (which 
was the date of Miss Ws insurance settlement) to the date of settlement.*
Plus it should pay £100  for Miss Ws trouble and upset in line with the investigators 
recommendation which I think is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Pendragon Finance and Insurance  Services Limited should resolve the complaint as set out 
above. That is to pay Miss W £3,049.98, plus 8% simple interest and an additional  £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
*If Pendragon  Finance and Insurance Services Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should provide Miss W with a certificate showing 
this if she requests one. 
Ref: DRN8056832