K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains Metro Bank PLC took too long to refund a payment made from his current 
account which he didnt  authorise.  He says this caused him financial problems and he wants 
Metro to compensate  him. Mr S is also unhappy  about the customer  service he received.
background
On 17 January 2018, Mr S contacted Metro Bank when  he noticed a payment of £54 had left 
his account a few days  earlier. He told Metro  that he hadnt made the payment and didnt  
know anything about it.
Metro Bank  investigated  and as part of its investigation it raised a chargeback,  asking the 
merchant, a hotel,  for more information about the transaction.  The hotel didnt provide Metro 
with the information it asked for. So Metro concluded that Mr S didnt authorise the payment 
and refunded Mr S £54. The £54 went back into Mr S account on 26 January 2018.
The disputed transaction caused  Mr Ss account  to be overdrawn. This meant he wasnt  able 
to access the full amount of a payment he was expecting into his account on 19 January 
2018. So it left Mr Ss account short  of what he expected because Metro  hadnt finished its 
investigation into the disputed transaction. Mr S says this caused  him a great deal of stress 
and anxiety.
Mr S says he made several phone calls to Metro to try and get the money refunded  as soon  
as possible. And he also went into a branch. He says when  he did so Metro staff were rude, 
unhelpful and gave him wrong information about when he would be able to withdraw his 
funds. 
Metro said it had acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account when it 
decided to investigate  the disputed transaction. But it accepted it had provided Mr S with 
misleading information. And that Mr S had been kept waiting too long when hed called 
Metro to try and sort things out. So it offered to pay Mr S a total of £30 compensation. Mr S 
remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered his complaint. She said Metro had completed a fraud  
investigation and had acted in line with the terms and conditions  of the account when it did 
so. So she didnt think Metro Bank  had acted  unreasonably or treated Mr S unfairly. The 
investigator didnt  think  Metro had been rude or unhelpful when Mr S contacted  it. She 
thought Metro had done enough to put things right. Mr S disagreed. So the complaint has 
come to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but Ive come  to the same conclusion as 
the investigator for very similar reasons.
Mr S called Metro on 17 January 2018  after he noticed a payment to a hotel from his 
account which he didnt  recognise. Metro told Mr S that it would investigate the payment and 
Ref: DRN82005632concluded that Mr S hadnt authorised the payment. So it refunded  the payment into Mr Ss 
account on 26 January  2018.
According to the account  terms and conditions Metro normally  issues its customers with an 
immediate refund when its informed about unauthorised transactions.  However,  the terms 
also say that in certain circumstances  Metro may need to investigate the disputed 
transaction further. And thats what happened  in this case. I can see that Metro explained 
that it was investigating the dispute what it was doing to Mr S on more than one occasion. 
Having looked  at whats happened  here, I dont think Metro  was wrong to ask the merchant 
for more information about the transaction. And I dont think  it took too long to complete its 
investigation. Its clear from what Mr S has told us that he feels  very strongly  that Metro  
caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But having looked  at the evidence, Im 
satisfied Metro was following  its processes  and acting  in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And that Metro kept Mr S informed. So I cant say Metro  treated 
Mr S unfairly.
Its up to a bank to decide on its policy  and procedures and not something which  this service 
would normally interfere  with. Concerns  about banks practices would be a matter  for the 
regulator of the bank   The Financial Conduct  Authority.
Turning to the customer service side of things, Metro has provided  a number of call 
recordings from its conversations with Mr S  14 in total. And having  listened to all the calls I 
do not share Mr Ss recollections on how these conversations went.  
I appreciate that Mr S is upset. But I have to base  my decision  on evidence. Ive listened to 
all the available  recordings  of the phone calls Mr S made. And I cant  say the call handlers 
were unhelpful  to him or rude. On the contrary,  I found that they were polite, listened  to Mr S 
and tried to be helpful in suggesting solutions to the issues he raised.
Having said that Metro accepts it couldve done  better.  And it has acknowledged small 
customer service  issues. Its apologised to Mr S for keeping him waiting on the phone  and 
not clearly explaining why he wasnt able to access the full amount of the payment which 
went into his account on 19 January  2018. It offered him a total of £30 for any trouble and 
upset this caused. 
Overall, I think Metro  has done enough to put things  right. And I think  its offer is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve this aspect  of Mr Ss complaint. And, while  I appreciate Mr S 
wont agree,  I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable offer to settle this 
complaint. So I wont  be asking it to do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN8200563